. f
@
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE... :
\  )
FOR  .
CONTAINING )
THE City CHARTER, LIST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND
OFFICERS, MAYOR’S ADDRESS, RULES AND ORDERS
OF THE Crry CoUNCIL, REPORTS OF VARIOUS TOWN .
COMMITTEES AND ORDINANCES OF THE CITY. |
———————————————
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF CITY COUNCIL.
——— \
E. Se —— Os y
Ef A
aly rey y
Zo NTT ok
oe —- 
‘ HOLYOKE, MABS.:
TRANSCRIPT BOOK AND JOB PRINTING HOUSE, HIGH STREET.
 .

|

C Vib :

REN |

,  DEEG !

Ui Pu: Cc’ |

A tS |

ore as

/  ‘a lve  ED WAS, |
G |

, |

|

| rem: |

I

CONTENTS.
Mayor’s ADDRESS,  
Ciry CHARTER,  
Crry GoVERNMENT AND OFFICERS FoR   
SELECTMEN’S REPORT,  
Town TREASURER’S REPORT,  F
WATER CoMMiSSIONERS’ REPORT,  
Town HALL BUILDING COMMITTEE’S REPORT,  
RULES AND ORDERS OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN,  
RULES AND ORDERS OF THE CoMMON COUNCIL,  
JOINT RULES AND ORDERS OF THE CiTy COUNCIL,  
ORDINANCE.— WARRANTS FOR City MEETINGS,  
. “s ACCOUNTABILITY IN EXPENDITURES,  
‘s City SEAL,  
s ORDINANCES,  
e CiTy MESSENGER,  
OM POLICE, .:  
“ JUNK DEALERS,  
“ DEEDs,  
“ Crty SOLICITOR,  
| CONSTABLES,  
“ PETROLEUM,  
, STREETS, &C.,  
| “s SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS, 
“s DUTIES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES,  
“ FirE DEPARTMENT,  
“s City ENGINEER,  
“ COLLECTION OF TAXES,  
“ POLICE ADDITIONAL,  

| CONTENTS.
ORDINANCE.—ACCEPTING AND ADOPTING STATUTES,  
“ Pusiic HEALTH, Co,  
“  GUNPOWDER,  
“  PAWNBROKERS,  
“ DutriEs oF CERTAIN COMMITTEES,  
“s Layine Out STREETS,  
“ SIDEWALKS,  

“  WARD BounDARIES, ;

“ WaRD Rooms, GENERAL PROVISIONS,  

|

|

Digitized by Google )

Digitized by Google

ADDRESS.
GENTLEMEN OF THE CITY COUNCIL: |

A little more than quarter of century has elapsed
—a little less than generation of men has passed away,
since the immediate territory in which we live, and
known as the village of Holyoke, (then part of West
Springfield,) was small hamlet or neighborhood of
farms, nestled in the bend of the Connecticut river, and
known as ‘‘ the fields.” :

 It had the usual New England appendage—the school
house, also small mill for grinding, and small cotton
mill.

The usually placid Connecticut was here made rough
and formidable by the ‘‘ great bar’’ in the ‘‘ greatrapids
of South Hadley,’’ and the stream was but little used,
except as highway of traffic, by means of locks and
canals, and to furaish food in its season to the country
in the vicinity.

The approving eye of science, and the selfish but enterprising eye of capital had long observed the wonderful force of this stream, and measures were taken in  to employ and utilize this hitherto waste power. ,
The quiet of agricultural life was startled in by information that the mighty current was to be curbed by

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
means of dam across the river, and turned into channels of industry and usefulness that the eternal throbbings of nature were to be made subservient to the purposes of mechanical art.
This was attempted in the spring and summer of  ,
but the structure was found to be too feeble, and on
Nov. it yielded to the immense pressure, and
was carried down the stream. Nothing daunted by this. |
catastrophe, the parties interested, immediately proded to erect another and stronger dam, which was com‘ pleted: October  the village school house, then
located few feet north-east of the Lyman street upper
bridge, happening in this case to be in the way of progress, gave way to the canal, and its more imposing fellow the farm-house for the store and boarding-house ;
the small mills for the lofty and expensive structures we
now see around us, and ‘‘ the fields’’ were traversed by
streets and water courses. |

The hamlet was sunk in the ambitious village, so ambitious even that it was at once called the ‘‘ New City,”’
and bid fair to soon realize all the conditions of its
proud name.
But, alas! the city could not be builded in night.
The genii of the torrent could not accomplish the marvelous work alone, and the genii of capital were impo- |

tent or unwilling. |

The territory now embraced in Holyoke, was set off
from West Springfield and the town was incorporated
March and from that time until its
growth was retarded by adverse circumstances, but
since those years it has improved rapidly.

‘‘ Hope deferred maketh the heart sick,’ and those
of us who lived in Holyoke from to  and

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
noted the decay and fall of one corporation, and its
management transferred to the present, also the general }
apathy of other enterprises and the stagnation of business, can fully appreciate the sentiment of the inspired

and kingly poet.

The city now contains, among other interests, sixteen
paper mills, capable of producing fifty tons of paper per |
day seven cotton mills with spindles three
woolen mills with twenty-nine sets of machinery two
machine shops one wire mill one screw mill; one alpaca mill, in course of erection one blanket mill; one
flouring mill three lumber mills, and many minor enterprises with valuation increased from  in
  to  in the present year.

No sketch, however slight, of the past history of any 
Massachusetts town, would be perfect without some allusion to the terrible four years struggle for the preservation of the nation’s life. The truce has been sounded
and peace reigns throughout the land, yet the memory
of homes made desolate, of sacrifices willingly endured,
is still fresh in many hearts, and eyes are dimmed by
‘the trembling tear, as thoughts recur,to the loved ones,
who left their pleasant New England homes -for the
front, never more to return. }

In this great war the town of Holyoke bore no inconspicuous part. Its young men sprang with alacrity in
answer to the calls of authority. Its mothers gave up
their sons, its wives their husbands—and though unused

to the privations and toils of camp life, our men played
well their part, and well earned the title of steady and
devoted soldiers. Their bravery is well attested by

' more than fifty stalwart forms laid low on southern battle-fields. ,

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
It is my wish, as have no doubt it will be your pleasure, to record and preserve their names upon imperishable material in our new city hall, or in some other appropriate place.
It seemed to be ordained that the town, in its progress, should passthrough much trial and tribulation,
and perhaps it is as well for us, that its youthful ambition was tempered by the experience of years. Its foundation is certainly no less firm by reason of its slowness
of growth. |
The ambitious infant has now approached the borders
of manhood and the obscure hamlet has indeed become
a city, and we have been elected its first officers. As :
such we have accepted, and now by solemn act |
) have assumed the honorable but onerous duties and ob- |
ligations pertaining to the several offices to which we
have been called by the suffrages of our fellow citizens,
and cannot allow this occasion to pass without expressing my grateful thanks to my friends and fellow
citizens for the very great and distinguished honor of
being the first Mayor of the city of Holyoke.
This office, like those you hold, is no sinecure, neither :
is it position or source of pleasure, except it may af- |
ford the opportunity for such pleasure as may arise in
every heart, from the consciousness of an act well performed, or duty honestly and successfully fulfilled.
Like yours, though in larger degree, it is an office requiring much patient labor, careful thought and study,
and great vigilance and perseverance in order that the ,
government may be duly organized and properly maintained, its laws and ordinances suitably prepared and
executed, so as best to subserve the interests and happiness of the people. 

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  

When consider the amount and character of the
work before us, that it is novel and untried position in
which none of us have much experience, that the re- |
sponsibilities are larger than they can possibly be in any
future year, and that all duties should be performed to
our own satisfaction, and in such manner as to receive
the approval of the people,—I cannot but hesitate, and
a feeling of diffiidence oppresses me, lest should in
some part fail to meet their wishes, or to maintain the
honor and character of the position which they have so
kindly bestowed.

We are now assembled for the first time, under our
charter, and to our skill, honesty and sound judgment
is confided the administration of all the ‘‘ fiscal, prudential and municipal affairs of the city.’’ We are now
fully engaged by all principles of honor and manhood,
to secure by all possible means the health and safety of
the people, to preserve the credit of the city by rigid
economy and careful expenditure of money,—to enforce strict accountability in all departments of finance,
—to subordinate all our own interests, and all personal
interests, to the public good,—to advance all necessary
works of improvement, and in fine to promote the happiness and prosperity of the whole people.

A change has been made in the manner of doing business. The methods of the past must give way to new
methods. The powers of the city are enlarged when
compared with those of town, and we shall make
many new laws, by system of ordinances, adapted to
its growing wants.

It is possible that some of our people who have long
enjoyed the unrestrained liberty of the town, may
imagine that their rights as citizens have been abridged

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.

by our city ordinances, and it will therefore behoove us

to be careful so to adapt them that they will not appear
| unreasonable, and that compliance with their requirements will be considered pleasant duty.

When look around me and observe the familiar
faces of those who compose this City Council, read
therein the firm determination of every one to do his
whole duty without fear or favor, and in such manner
that no tongue of slander can consistently assail his
motives. also read therein that |

—‘ honor’s thoughts ”

:  *€ Reign solely in the breast of every man,”
and that it is useless for me in this presence to recite the
history of some of our older sister cities, that have,
either by neglect or criminal design of their officials become sinks of vice and corruption, and the receptacle of
all vileness, or of those officials who having sailed for
years upon sea of fraud and deception, have at last
wearied the patience of the people, and have been
brought to grief, and now bid fair to end their days in

| exile, or the penitentiary.

Promises without performance are vain and ignoble,
therefore shall make none. Results, both in the appropriation of money and its honest application for the
purposes of its levy, are what the people will look for, and that these may be economical and beneficent should
be our untiring purpose.

It will be my pleasure, as it is part of my duty,

 ‘from time to time to communicate to both boards such
information and recommend such measures as the business ana interests of the city may require.”’

With such slight experience as have had in most of
the affairs of the town for the last few years, without

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
definite and finished reports from the officers of the
town, it will not be presumed that can now present
the items of all the last year’s transactions. It will be
sufficient if can, in general manner epitomize the several statements and reports that have casually come to
my notice, and which will undoubtedly be furnished
you in full; and call your attention to those matters
which will demand your immediate attention.

It will be part of your duty, as soon as convenient
to elect certain officers of the city, among whom are |
those who have charge of

THE POOR.

The poor we have always with us—many of them sensitive and too proud to ask—most of them really unfortunate and deserving others designing, and sometimes
think undeserving.

The men you select to look after this interest should
be kind, discriminating and just men. You have been
elected from the several parts of the city, and are supposed to know the wants of your several localities,
and we, and our officers, will not be excused, if the
hapless and unfortunate shall be allowed to suffer in
the midst of the plenty around us. Your appropriations
in this direction will undoubtedly be generous without
prodigality. |

HEALTH.

The health of city and the best method of preserving it, is of first importance. The good name of our
town has been injured in times past, and its officers traduced, but history has at last vindicated both. The
small pox raged in this community last year, and com 

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
plaints were made and repeated in regard to the efficiency of those in charge. We became terror and almost
' by-word to our neighbors. Yet, in view of the testimony recently obtained, how undeserved was the censure !

We have learned within the last four months that a
certain portion of our foreign population—ignoring
modern science—still practice the same methods that
obtain in their former homes, and actually inoculate
with the pure small pox virus, and that large numbers
of both old and young have been inoculated within the
last few years, and to this practice may be ascribed the
difficulties which seemed to baffle the authorities of both
town and state, and render it almost impossible to eradicate the pest, by any of the known methods of treatment and isolation.

The authority over this subject is vested in you, and
IT have no doubt it will be properly exercised. You
have great responsibility, and your powers under the
law are commensurate to the occasion. Cleanliness and
absence of nuisance should be insisted upon in all cases.
This subject, like certain diseases, needs decisive treatment, and our action should be rigorous—unceasing—
remorseless.

We may seem arbitrary, but when lives and health
are in jeopardy, we must perform our duty at all hazard.
W ATER-WORKS.

One of the great requisites for health is pure water,
and congratulate you all, that this long-needed, longdesired fluid has been introduced to the city, and universally made welcome in every household.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  

The water commissioners report fact well known
and appreciated by us, that the great work of introduction has been accomplished—that they have laid nearly
seventeen miles of pipes, exclusive of connections, have
laid about connections, supplying families.

Holyoke issued its bonds to the amount of  to
pay for this work, and from the prods of those bonds,
and collections for distribution pipe, payments have
been made to the amount of leaving balance of  in the hands of the Treasurer of the
board.

It is demonstrated that after the payment now due, a
fair and reasonable water rent will pay the interest upon
the bonds, running expenses, and the lawful rate to the
sinking fund.

There is yet to be paid all such damage as may be assessed for any water rights taken, or injured, by the
town, and for lands that may be flowed by the raising of
the ponds, and two small lots that cannot be lawfully
settled without the adjudication of the County Commis gioners. Your attention will be called to the subject of
removing the vegetable matter in certain low grounds
on the borders of the ponds, and it may be desirable .
that some part of the labor be performed at once.

Legislative aid will probably be required to authorize
the issue of bonds for sum sufficient to make the above
payments, and perform the above labor.

SEWERS.

One of the chief sources of ill health in thickly settled
communities is faulty or insufficient sewage. The position of our city is such, that no particular difficulties
stand in the way ofa perfect system. committee was

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
appointed by the town of Holyoke to obtain plans for
such system, and it will doubtless report to you.

As sewers generally traverse our streets and form a
sub-structure upon which is often imposed an expensive
permanent road-bed, in the way of pavement or macadam—it is of great importance that they be first located according to general system, and built before large
expense is made in the street, otherwise the building of
a sewer will destroy the street, and thus double the ex, pense.

It will be for you to say how far we shall prod in
this work, but the filling of the low ground south of
Appleton street, would seem to render it imperative that
some work should be done soon.

If any sewer shall be built, your attention will necessarily be called to the question of payment, and you
will be required to decide whether we shall pursue the
system of imposing portion of the expense upon parties benefited, or build the sewer wholly at the expense
of the city, and charge fee for entrance. The last
plan, extensively adopted, would probably require a
long loan with sinking fund to meet it, yet it would

. seem that the time had arrived to adopt it, in view of
the difficulties attending the first plan, and the general
opposition to that system. .

Nuisances being abated, water supplied, and sewers
properly built, it would seem as if the public health
was properly conserved. The safety of the people will
also engage your attention.

STREETS.

The streets of our city should be made ‘‘safe and convenient for the public travel,’’ and the method by which

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
this shall be accomplished will claim careful consideration. Whether we shall go on as in the past—
patching here and patching there—skimming the surface year by year, paying out such sums of money for

" hired teams as it is supposed will satisfy the people, or
whether we shall commence system of permanent,
substantial improvement, such as pavement or macadam, sustained by solid curbs, is for you to decide.

I am impressed with the conviction that the city
should own its teams and implements—the teams to assist in drawing engines in case of fire; that one man
should be engaged as Superintendent, and that High
street from Lyman to Dwight, Dwight street from Race
to Crescent, and Crescent street from Lyman to Cross
street, should be laid with macadam.

An extra outlay of money in this direction will furnish no cause for complaint, and will doubtless be the
cheapest, in the end.

What is said of streets may with equal propriety be
urged in regard to side-walks. Our population is not

— located in com'pact limits, and side-walks to all parts
may be expensive, yet no one will deny that our principal streets should be provided with good walks, and
serve no longer as traps for the unwary. ,
POLICE. :
Another efficient means for preserving order, and the
safety of the persons and property of our people is a
well organized and vigilant police force, composed not
of men who are afraid of the rich and influential rogue,
and make themselves terror to the poor and feeble ;
not of men who loiter about, merely winning their pay, ,
without winning either respect or glory; not of men

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.

- who put on meek look of sanctity to secure the office,
and under it serve their own base purposes not of men
who make up weak, foolish cases, that they may make
a show of business but composed of men who know
their duty and dare to perform it who combine humanity and moderation with vigor who realize the responsibility of the office, and who can secure the respect of a
culprit while executing the stern mandates of the law.

To the latter class have no doubt you will give all

, reasonable encouragement. You will also consider the
question of enlarging the force.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

The Fire Department stands below no other institution in importance, as means of safety to lives and
property, and none is better entitled to the consideration
and generous support of the municipality.

, The Fire District in the town having annulled its organization ,and voted to sell its material to the city, it
will be incumbent upon you to choose committee to
ascertain the value of the property, and we must provide the means of paying for the same.

As the old organization ceases on the twentieth day of
this month, it will be necessary for us to establish fire
department, under our charter, and make such regulations concerning its officers and the management of fires,
as may be deemed expedient.

I shall cheerfully join with you in all such measures
as shall tend to make this department efficient, and attest our appreciation of the devoted and generous spirit
so often displayed by the true fireman. |

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
, MILITARY.
Once, in the early history of the town, it was found
' necessary to send to neighboring town for company
of military to quell serious disturbance here. Such
necessity may not again occur, but if it should, we have
the means of safety at home, in well organized and
highly creditable company, which should receive such
encouragement as we can reasonably give.
FINANCE.
By the reports of the officers of the
town, March the indebtedness
was stated at 
To this should be. added the amount
awarded against the town for new
bridge, being about  
Also the second subscription to the
railroad, 
And such sums as have since been
paid,. on the City Hall, of whichI have .
no definite information. ———
$ 
In this amount is included the water
works, which will, undoubtedly, be
self-paying, and no burden upon the
people, except the usual and ordinary
water-rates, amounting to 
And debt for stock in railroad, 
Leaving floating debt of  
To this may be added the cost of finishing the City Hall, say  
Indebtedness including City Hall 
If we include the railroad debt  
we shall have  

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.

This is stated approximately, as have no means of
verifying the figures, and the report of committees and
proper officers will doubtless give us all the information 
we need upon the subject.

The water debt will take care of itself, and from the
history of railroads in Massachusetts, learn of many
lines no. more promising in their infancy than ours,
afterwards becoming paying roads, and improving from
zero, to par, and above, so that have faith to believe
that our subscription to the Holyoke and Westfield railroad is not dead loss, even if we ignore the great benefits we derive from healthy competition.

The debt, large as it may be, was made by the men

| who have made Holyoke what it is, and it was made
after careful consideration.

It will be our duty to provide the means of paying,
or carrying the burden, and see that it be not unnecessarily increased. If it be large, let it be to us an admonition in all future expenditures. The persons who
made these debts were responsible only to themselves—
we are responsible to the people whom we represent.

| SCHOOLS. |

No report or statement of the condition of the schools
has been received by me, but one will doubtless be
made to the Council. It needs no report, however, to

| remind us of the great and abiding importance of this
public institution. |

From the foundation of our government it has stood—
next to the institution of religion—-pre-eminent as safeguard of our liberty and privileges, and is forever to be
cherished and maintained as we maintain our dearest ,
rights. All aid necessary for the improvement of our

, MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
schools, to bring them to the highest standard, will be
cheerfully rendered by you. |

Gentlemen: in conclusion can only assure you that
I enter upon this year’s work, with an earnest desire to
perform my whole duty. trust we shall mutually
support each other in all just and meritorious measures
that may be introduced, or perfected for the happiness |
and prosperity of our constituents,—in all action that
may be taken to advance the moral, social, or physical
condition of the people. ,

Holyoke is young and undeveloped, and has its history to make. It has no long line of ancient noted
names, to whose ‘achievements and example we can
proudly refer,—or upon whose distinguished merits we |
can self-complacently repose.

Its men are self-made, trained in the severest schools
of experience, and inspired with energy and enterprise.

It has great and ceaseless motive power, yet unimproved, waiting for its coadjutor—capital.

It is beautiful for situation, salubrious in its climate,

. and modest in its ambition. Its foundations, both natural and artificial, are of the most substantial description,
and may its foundations for government, which we are
to assist in establishing, be equally as firm, and equally
as permanent.

May we be generous without profuseness, economical
without being niggardly, conservative, but responsive
to noble enterprise, or necessary improvements. May
our city go on advancing in prosperity, rise higher and
higher in morals and true excellence, and may it grow
better year by year, so long as its mountains stand as
sentinels in the horizon, or the waters of the vale turn its
wheels of industry. |

 

.
“

 ‘
e
.

.
.

“
’

€
.
e

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE

— OLTY OF HOLYOKE.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in General Court assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows :

: Section  The inhabitants of the town of Holyoke
shall continue to be body politic and corporate, under
the name of the City of Holyoke, and as such, shall
have, exercise and enjoy all the rights, immunities,
powers and privileges, and shall be subject to all the
duties and obligations now incumbent upon and pertaining to the said town as municipal corporation.

SEcT.  The administration of all the fiscal, pruden: tial and municipal affairs of the said city, with the government thereof, shall be vested in one officer to be
called the mayor; one council of seven, to be called the
board of aldermen and one council of twenty-one, to
be called the common council; which boards, in their
joint capacity, shall be denominated the city council,
and the members thereof shall be sworn to the faithful |
performance of their respective duties. majority of
each board shall constitute quorum, for the transaction
of business, and no member of either board shall receive
any compensation for his services.

Sect.  It shall be the duty of the selectmen of said
town, aS soon as may be after the passage of this act,
and its acceptance as herein provided, to divide said
town into seven wards, so that they shall contain, as

  CITY CHARTER.
nearly as may be consistent with well-defined limits to
each ward, an equal number of voters in each ward,
which division may be revised by the city council, within two years from the passage hereof. The city council
‘may, in the year eighteen hundred and eighty, and in
every fifth year thereafter, make new division of said
wards, so that they shall contain, as nearly as may be
consistent with well-defined limits to each. ward, an
equal number of voters in each ward, according to the
census to be taken in the month of May or June in said
years.

Srot.  The election of city and ward officers shall
take place on the first Tuesday of December, annually,
and the municipal year. shall begin on the first Monday
of January following.

Srect.  On the first Tuesday of December, annually, there shall be elected by ballot, in each of said
wards, warden, clerk, and three inspectors of elections,
who shall be different persons, residents in the ward,
who shall hold their offices one year, and until others
shall be elected and qualified in their stead. Said war- dens shall preside at all ward meetings, with the powers
of moderators at town meetings and if at any meeting
the warden is not present, the clerk shall preside until a
warden pro tempore is elected by ballot; if both the
warden and clerk are absent, the senior in age of the inspectors present shall preside until warden vo tempore is thus elected and if all said officers are absent, any legal voter in said ward, may preside until warden
pro tempore is elected. When any ward officer is absent, or neglects to perform his duty, his office shall be
filled pro tempore. The clerk shall record all the prodings, and certify the votes, and deliver to his successor in office all the records, journals, documents and
papers held by him in his said capacity. The inspectors shall assist the warden in receiving, assorting and
counting the votes. All said officers shall be sworn to a
faithful discharge of their duties, said oath to be admin istered by the clerk to the warden, and by the warden

CITY CHARTER.  
* to the clerk, and to the inspectors, or to either of said
officers by any justice of the peace for the county of
Hampden. Certificates of such oaths shall be made by
the clerk upon the ward records. All warrants for
. meetings of the citizens for municipal purposes, to be
held either in wards or general meetings, shall be issued
by the mayor and aldermen, and shall be in such form,
and served and returned in such manner and at such 
times as the city council shall direct. The compensation
of the ward officers shall be fixed by concurrent vote of
the city council.

SEcT.  The mayor, city clerk and city treasurer
shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city at
large, voting in their respective wards, and shall hold
their offices for the municipal year next following their :
election, and until others shall be elected and qualified.

Sect.  One alderman shall be elected by and from
the voters of each ward, and shall, at the time of his
election, be resident of the ward in which he is so
elected. Each alderman shall hold his office for the
municipal year next following his election, and until a
majority of the new board shall be elected and qualified.

SeEcT.  Three common councilmen shall be elected
by and from the voters of each ward, and shall at the
time of their election be residents of the wards respectively in which they are elected they shall hold their
offices for the municipal year next following their election, and until majority of the new board shall be

| elected and qualified.

SEoT.  On the first Tuesday of December, annually, the qualified voters in the several wards shall give
in their votes by ballot, for mayor, city clerk, city treasurer, aldermen and common councilmen, in accordance
with the provisions of this act and all the votes so given
shall be assorted, counted, declared and. recorded in
Open ward meeting by causing the names of persons
voted for, and the number given for each, to be written
in the ward record at length. The clerk of the ward,
within twenty-four hours thereafter, shall deliver to the

  CITY CHARTER.
persons elected members of the common council, certificates of their elections respectively, signed by the warden and clerk, and majority of the inspectors of elections, and shall deliver to the city clerk copy of the
record of such elections, certified in like manner. The
board of aldermen shall, within ten days thereafter, examine the copies of the records of the several wards,
certified as aforesaid, and shall cause the person who
shall have been elected mayor to be notified, in writing,
of his election but if the person elected shall refuse to
accept the office, the board shall issue warrants for a
new election, and the same pordings shall be had in
all respects as are herein before provided for the election
of mayor, and, from time to time, shall be repeated,
, until mayor shall be elected, and shall accept said office. In case of the decease, resignation or absence of
the mayor, or of his inability to perform the duties of
his office, or in case of vacancy in the office of mayor
from any cause, it shall be the duty of the board of aldermen and common council respectively, by vote, to declare that vacancy exists, and the cause thereof ;
and thereupon the city council shall, by concurrent
vote, elect mayor to fill such vacancy and the mayor
thus elected shall hold his office until the inability
causing such vacancy shall be removed, or until new
election. Each alderman shall be notified in writing of
his election by the mayor and aldermen for the time being. The oath prescribed by this act shall be administered to the mayor by the city clerk, or by any justice
of the peace for the county of Hampden. The aldermen
and common councilmen elect shall, on the first Monday
of January, at ten o’clock in the forenoon, meet in convention, when the oath required by this act shall be administered to the members of the two boards present,
by the mayor or by any justice of the peace for the
county of Hampden, and certificate of such oath having been taken, shall be entered on the journal of the
mayor and aldermen, and of the common council, by
their respective clerks. After the oath has been adminCITY CHARTER.  
istered as aforesaid, the two boards shall separate, and
the common council shall be organized by the election
of president and clerk, to hold their offices respectively during the pleasure of the common council, the clerk
to be under oath faithfully to perform the duties of his
said office and his compensation shall be fixed by con- current vote of the city council. In case of the absence
of the mayor elect on the first Monday of January, or if
a mayor shall not then have been elected, the city conncil shall organize itself in the manner herein before provided, and may prod to business in the same manner
as if the mayor was present and the oath of office may,
at any time thereafter, in convention of the two boards,
be administered to the mayor, and any member of the ,
city council who may have been absent at the organization. In the absence of the mayor, the board of aldermen may elect presiding officer, pro tempore, who
shall also preside at the joint meetings of the two
boards. Each board shall keep record of its own prodings, and judge of the elections of its own members ;
and in case of vacancy in either board, the mayor and
aldermen shall issue their warrants for new election.

SEecT.  The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city. It shall be his duty to be active and
vigilant in causing the laws and regulations of the city
to be enforced, and to keep general supervision over
the conduct of all subordinate officers; and he may,
whenever in his opinion the public good may require,
remove, with the consent of the appointing power, any
officer, over whose appointment he has, in accordance |
with the provisions of this charter, exercised the power
of nomination. He may call special meetings of the
boards of aldermen and common council, or either of
them, when in his opinion the interests of the city re- .

- quire it, by causing notices to be left at the usual place
of residence of each member of the board or boards to
be convened. He shall from time to time communicate
to both boards such information, and recommend such
measures as the business and interests of the city may

' CITY CHARTER.

, in his opinion require. He shall preside in the board of
aldermen, and in convention of thetwo boards, but shall
have casting vote only. His salary for the first five

years, under this charter, shall be fixed by the city

council, but shall not exd the sum of five hundred
dollars per annum. Afterwards, it shall be fixed by
concurrent vote of the city council. It shall be payable
at stated periods, but shall not, at any time, be increased
or diminished during the year for which he is elected.
He shall receive no other compensation.

| Sect.  The executive power of said city generally, with all the powers heretofore vested in the selectmen of towns by the laws of the Commonwealth, shall

be vested in and may be exercised by the mayor and
aldermen as if the same were herein specially enumerated. The mayor and aldermen shall have full and exclusive power to appoint constable or constables, a
chief of police with all the powers and duties of constable, and all other police, and all subordinate officers
whose election is not herein provided for, and the same
to remove at pleasure; and they may require any person who may be appointed constable or chief of police
of the city to give bonds for the faithful discharge of the
duties of the office, with such security and to such
amount as they may deem reasonable and proper upon
which bonds the like prodings and remedies may be
had as are by law provided in case of constables’ bonds
taken by the selectmen of towns. The compensation of
the police and other subordinate officers shall be fixed
by concurrent vote of the city council. The city council
shall have the care and superintendence of the city
buildings and the custody and management of all city
property, with power to let what may be legally let,
and to sell or purchase property, real or personal, in the
name and for the use of the city, whenever its interests
or convenience may in their judgment require it; and
they shall as often as once year cause to be published,
for the use of the inhabitants, particular account of
the receipts and expenditures, and schedule of city
property and of the city debt. ,
. |

, CITY CHARTER.  
SrcT.  In all cases in which appointments are directed to be made by the mayor and aldermen, the mayor shall have the exclusive power of nomination, being
subject, however, to confirmation or rejection by the
board of aldermen and no person shall be eligible by
appointment or election to any office of emolument, the
salary of which is payable out of the city treasury, who,
at the time of such appointment or election, shall be a
member of the board of aldermen or of the common
council. All sittings of the mayor and aldermen, of the
common council, and of the city council, shall be public when they are not engaged in executive business.

Sect.  The city council shall annually, as soon
after their organization, as may be convenient, elect by
joint ballot in convention, collector of taxes, one or

-more superintendents of highways, and city physician, 
and by concurrent vote city solicitor and city auditor,
who shall hold their offices respectively for the term of
one year, and until their successors shall be chosen and
qualified provided, however, that either of the officers
named in this section may be removed at any time by
the city council for sufficient cause.

Vacancies occurring in the above-named offices, may
be filled at any time. The compensation of the officers |
mentioned in this section, together with the city clerk
and city treasurer, shall be fixed by concurrent vote of
the city council.

SEcT.  The city clerk shall also be clerk of the
board of aldermen, and shall be sworn to the faithful
performance of his duties. He shall perform such
duties as shall be prescribed by the board of aldermen ;
and he shall perform all the duties, and exercise all the
powers incumbent by law upon him. He shall deliver
to his successor in office, as soon as chosen and qualified, all journals, records, papers, documents or other
things held by him in his capacity as city clerk.

SEcT.  The city council elected in December, in
the year eighteen hundred and seventy-three, shall, as
soon after their organization as may be convenient, elect

 

  CITY CHARTER.
by joint ballot in convention three persons to be overseers of the poor, one for three years, one for two years,
and one for one year; and thereafter the city council
shall annually, as soon after their organization as may
be convenient, elect in the same manner one person who
shall hold his office for the term of three years next ensuing, and until another shall be elected and qualified
in his stead. The persons so elected shall, with the :
mayor, and president of the common council, constitute
the board of overseers of the poor. The mayor shall be
ex officio chairman of the board. Vacancies occurring
in the board may be filled by joint ballot of the city
council at any time the person so elected to hold office
only for the unexpired term of the member who has
ceased to hold office. The city council may at any time
’ remove any elected member of the said board from of-.
fice for cause. The compensation of the overseers of the
poor shall be fixed by concurrent vote of the city coun cil. No more than one of the three members shall be
eligible for said office from any one ward of said city.
Sect.  The city council elected in December, in
the year eighteen hundred and seventy-three, shall, as
soon after their organization as may be convenient, elect
by concurrent vote three persons to be assessors of taxes,
one for three years, one for two years, and one for one
year and thereafter the city council shall annually, as
soon after their organization as may be convenient, elect
in the same manner, one person who shall hold his office
for the term of three years next ensuing, and until another shall be elected and qualified in his stead. The
persons so elected shall constitute the board of assessors,
and shall exercise the powers, and be subject to the liabilities and duties of assessors in towns. Vacancies occurring in the board may be filled by concurrent vote of
the city council at any time, the person so elected to
hold office only for the unexpired term of the member
who has ceased to hold office. All taxes shall be assessed, apportioned, and collected in the manner prescribed by the general laws of the commonwealth proCITY CHARTER.  
vided, however, that the city council may establish
further or additional provisions for the collection there' of. The compensation of the assessors shall be fixed
by concurrent vote of the city council.

SEoT.  The school committee of the city shall consist of nine persons, two of whom shall be chosen from
the city at large, and one by and from the voters of each
ward. On the first Tuesday of December, in the year

eighteen hundred and seventy-three, there shall be
chosen members of the committee from wards one and
three, and one from the city at large, to serve for the
term of three years from the first Monday of January
next ensuing from wards two, four and six, members
to serve for the term of two years from the first Monday
of January next ensuing; and from wards five and
seven, and one from the city at large, members to serve
for the term of one year from the first Monday of January next ensuing and at each subsequent election there
shall be elected three members of the school committee :
to hold their office for the term of three years, as successors of those whose term of office expires at the expiration of the then municipal year. In voting for school
committee at any election, the persons intended for the
members of the committee from the city at large, shall
be indicated on the ballot by the words ‘‘at large’’ set
against their names, and the other persons shall be voted
for in their respective wards. The persons so chosen
shall, with the mayor, constitute the school committee,
and have the care and superintendence of the public
schools. The mayor shall be ez officio chairman of the
board. And all the rights and obligations of the town
of Holyoke in relation to the grant and appropriation of
money to the support of the schools, and the special
powers and authority heretofore conferred by law upon
. the inhabitants of said town, to raise money for the support of schools therein, shall be merged in the powers
and obligations of the city, to be exercised in the same
manner as over other subjects of taxation; and all
grants and appropriations of money for the support of

  CITY CHARTER.
schools, and the erection and repair of school houses in
said city, shall be made by the city council, in the same
manner as grants and appropriations are made for other
city purposes. Vacancies occurring in the board may
be filled by joint ballot of the city council and school
committee at any time, the member so elected to hold
Office only for the remainder of the municipal year.
The said committee shall appoint from their own number, or otherwise, secretary, who shall also under the
direction and control of said committee be the superintendent of the schools, and the compensation of such
secretary shall be determined from year to year by the
city council.

SroT.  The city council elected in December, in
the year eighteen hundred and seventy-three, shall, as
soon as may be convenient after their organization, elect
by joint ballot three persons to be water commissioners,
one for three years, one for two years and one for one

! year, and thereafter the city council shall annually, as
soon after their organization as may be convenient, elect
in the same manner one person who shall hold his office
for the term of three years, next ensuing, and until
another shall be elected and qualified in his stead. Vacancies occurring in the commission may be filled by
joint ballot of the city council at any time. The city
council may, at any time, remove any member of said
commission from office for cause. The compensation of
the water commissioners shall be fixed by concurrent
vote of the city council.

Sect.  All city and ward officers shall be held to

 discharge the duties of the offices to which they have
been respectively elected, notwithstanding their removal
after their election out of their respective ward into any
other wards of the city but permanent residence out
of the city shall cause vacancy to exist in the offices to
which they were elected.
— Sxot.  The city council shall take care that no
money be paid from the treasury unless granted or appropriated, and shall secure just and proper account- ,

CITY CHARTER.  
ability by requiring bonds with sufficient penalties, and
sureties from all persons intrusted with the receipt, custody or disbursement of money.

Sor.  The city council shall have exclusive authority and power to lay out any new street or town
. way, and to estimate the damages any individual may
sustain thereby but all questions relating to the subject of laying out, accepting, altering or discontinuing
any street or way, shall first be acted upon by the mayor and aldermen and any person dissatisfied with the
decision of the city council in the estimate of damages,
may make complaint to the county commissioners of
the county of Hampden at any meeting held within one
year after such decision, whereupon the same prodings shall be had as are now provided by the laws of this
Commonwealth, in cases where persons are aggrieved by
the assessment of damages by selectmen, in the fortythird chapter of the General Statutes provided, that no
bridge or highway shall be placed by said city government over the canals or raceways of the Holyoke Water
Power company, now or hereafter to be built, without a
clear space of at least five feet for the passage of boats
between said bridges or highways, and the top or surface water-line of the canals when full, and provided, also, that the soil or superstructure of the banks of the
canals or raceways, within twenty feet of the sides of
said canals or raceways, shall not for any purpose be
dug up or removed by the authority of the: city government below point one foot above the water-line of said
canals when full, except under the joint approval and
direction of the Holyoke Water Power company, and
the city government of Holyoke. In case said Holyoke
Water Power company and said city government are
unable to agree as to the time, extent or manner of
digging or removing the soil or superstructure of the
banks of said canals or raceways, as aforesaid, any justice of the supreme judicial court is authorized, in vacation or term time, upon petition by either of said parties,
and upon such notice to the other party as may be or  CITY CHARTER.

dered, to appoint suitable engineer, who shall have
the power to determine the time, extent and manner of
digging or removing the soil or superstructure of said
banks, as aforesaid, and shall superintend the same.
The said justice shall also determine by which party or
parties, and in what proportions, the costs of said prodings and the salary of said engineer shall be paid.

SEcT.  Prior to every election, the mayor and al
dermen shall make out lists of all the citizens of each
ward qualified to vote in such elections, in the manner
in which selectmen of towns are required to make out
lists of voters and, for that purpose, they shall have
full access to the assessors’ books and lists, and are empowered to call for the assistance of assessors, assistant
assessors and other city officers; and they shall deliver
the lists so prepared and corrected to the clerks of the
several wards, to be used at such elections and no person shall be entitled to vote whose name is not borne on
such list. list of the voters of each ward shall be
posted in one or more public places in each ward provided, however, that any person whose name shall not
be borne on the list of the ward in which he is entitled
to vote, when it shall be placed in the hands of the clerk
-of said ward, shall have the right to have his name entered thereon, at any time thereafter before the closing
of the polls, upon presenting to the ward officers certificate, signed by the mayor or city clerk, setting forth
his right to have his name so entered.

SEcT.  General meetings of the citizens qualified
to vote, may from time to time be held, to consult upon
the public good, to instruct their representatives, and to
take all lawful means to obtain redress for any grievances, according to the right secured to the people by the
constitution of this Commonwealth. And such meetings

may and shall be duly warned by the mayor and aldermen, upon the request, in writing, setting forth the purposes thereof, of fifty qualified voters.

Sect.  .. All power and authority now vested by
law in the board of health for said town, or in the selectCITY CHARTER.  
men thereof, shall be transferred to and vested in the city
council, to be by them exercised in such manner as they
may deem expedient. ,

SEecT.  The city council may make by-laws with
suitable penalties for the inspection, survey, measurement and sale of lumber, wood, .hay, coal and bark
brought into or exposed in said city for sale, and shall
have the same powers as the town had in reference to
the suspension of the laws for the protection and preservation of useful birds, and of all other laws, the operation or suspension of which is subject to the action of
the town thereon. The city council make also all such
salutary and needful by-laws as towns by the laws of this
Commonwealth have power to make and establish, and
to annex penalties not exding twenty dollars, for

the breach thereof; which by-laws shall take effect and
be in force from and after the time therein respectively
limited, without the sanction of any court but subject to
the approval of the mayor provided, however, that all
laws and regulations in force in said town shall remain
in force until they expire by their own limitation, or are
revised or repealed by the city council, and all fines and
forfeitures for the breach of any by-law or ordinance
shall be paid into the city treasury.
| Sect.  All elections of national, state, county and

district officers who are voted for by the people, shall be
held at meetings of the citizens qualified to vote at such
elections in their respective wards, at the time fixed by
law for these elections respectively.

SEcT.  All the rights, privileges, powers and authority vested in said town of Holyoke by chapter six, ty-two of the acts of the year eighteen hundred and
seventy-two, entitled ‘‘An Act to supply the town of
Holyoke with pure water,’’ and by the votes of said
town passed in accordance with said act, except the
number and election of water commissioners, shall continue in force, and be transferred to and vested in the
city council, to be by them exercised in such manner as
they may deem expedient.

  CITY CHARTER. ,

 Srct:  The judicial district created by chapter
one hundred seventy-three of the acts of the year
eighteen hundred and seventy-one, shall be and continue
a judicial district under the jurisdiction of the police
court established by said chapter anything in this act
to the contrary notwithstanding.

SrEorT.  Every ordinance, order, resolution or vote
to which the concurrence of the board of aldermen and
of the common council may be necessary, except on a
question of convention of the two branches, and every
order of either branch involving the expenditure of

money, shall be presented to the mayor; if he approves
thereof, he shall signify his approbation by signing the
same; but if not, le shall return the same with his
objections to the branch in which it originated, who
shall enter the objections of the mayor at large on their
records, and prod to reconsider said ordinance, order,
-  yesolution or vote; and if, after such reconsideration,
two-thirds of the board of aldermen or common council,
present and voting thereon, notwithstanding such objections, agree to pass the same, it shall, together with the
objections, be sent to the other branch of the city council, if it originally required reconcurrent action, where it
‘shall also be considered, and if approved by two
thirds of the members present it shall be in force; but
in all cases the vote shall be determined by yeas and
nays. Ifany such ordinance, order, resolution or vote
shall not be returned by the mayor within ten days
(Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented,
the same shall be in force. But the veto power of the
mayor shall not extend to the election of officers required by any law or ordinance to be chosen by the city
council in convention or by concurrent action, unless
expressly so provided therein. In all cases where anything  or may. be required or authorized by any law or
ordinance to be done by the mayor and aldermen, the
board of aldermen shall first act thereon and any order,
resolution or vote of said board shall be presented to
the mayor for his approval, in the manner provided in
this section. a

CITY CHARTER.  

Sect.  The city council may establish fire department to consist of chief engineer and as many assistant engineers, engine-men, hose-men and hook and
ladder men as the city council, by ordinance, shall from
time to time, prescribe; and said city council may
make provisions in regard to the time and mode of appointment, and the occasion and mode of removals of
said officers or members, and define their office and
duties, and in general to make such regulations concerning their pay, conduct and government, and concerning
the management and conduct of fires, and persons at- |
tending fires, subject to all penalties provided for the
breach of the city ordinances, as they shall deem expedient provided, that the appointment of engine-men,
hose-men and hook and ladder men shall be made by
the mayor and aldermen, exclusively. The engineers
and other officers of the fire department, so appointed,
shall have the same authority in regard to the prevention and extinguishment of fires and the performance of
the other offices and duties now incumbent upon firewards as are now conferred upon fire-wards by the general statutes now in force, and the compensation to the’ fire department shall be fixed by concurrent vote of
the city council.

Sect.  The city council shall have power to establish fire-limits within the city, and.from time to time
change or enlarge the same; and by ordinance, they
shall regulate the construction of all buildings erected 

- within said fire-limits, stipulating their location, size,
and the material of which they may be constructed, together with such other rules and regulations as may
tend to insure the same from damage by fire they shall
also have the sole care and management of the public
grounds belonging to said city, and of all the shade and

ornamental trees standing and growing thereon; and
also of all the shade and ornamental trees standing and
growing, in or upon, any of the public streets and highways in said city. :

  CITY CHARTER.

SrcT.  The inhabitants of any fire district, organized according to law, in the said town, at any legal meeting of the qualified voters thereof, called for the purpose, may vote to dissolve their said fire district, and to
annul the organization thereof, and may dispose of the
fire apparatus and other property of the district, and
appropriate the prods thereof in such manner as they
judge best and thereafter such fire district shall be dissolved, and their powers and privileges, and their duties
and liabilities shall cease provided, that the said districts shall continue liable to pay all their existing debts
and to perform all legal contracts. If the said district
or districts shall by vote so elect, the city shall purchase
the fire apparatus and other property of such district, at
a fair valuation, not exding the amount paid by the
district therefor and shall pay the debts and liabilities
of the district so far as the amount of such valuation
may be sufficient therefor; and if the amount of the
valuation exds the amount of the debts and liabilities
of the district, such excess shall be allowed upon and
deducted from the city taxes, then next assessed upon

‘ the inhabitants of such fire district, in the proportions
severally assessed upon them in the tax lists by the asSessors.

Sect.  The city council shall, in such manner as
they may determine, elect or appoint all other subordinate officers, for whose election or appointment other
provision is not herein made, define their duties and fix
their compensation.

SeoT.  All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with
this act are repealed provided, however, that the repeal of the said acts shall not affect any act done, or any right accruing or accrued or established, or any
suit or proding had or commenced in any civil case
before the time when such repeal shall take effect and
that no offense committed, and no penalty, or forfeiture
incurred under any act hereby repealed, and before the
time when such repeal shall take effect, shall be affected
by the repeal and that no suit or prosecution pending

CITY CHARTER.  
at the time of the said repeal, for any offence committed
or for the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture incurred
under said acts, shall be affected by such repeal; and
provided, also, that all persons who, at the time the said
repeal takes effect, shall hold any office under the said
acts, shall continue to hold the same until the organization of the city government contemplated by this charter
shall be completely effected.

Sect.  For the purpose of organizing the system
of government hereby established, and putting the same
in operation in the first instance, the selectmen of the
town of Holyoke, for the time being, shall issue their
warrants seven days atleast previous to the first Tuesday
of December of the present year, calling meetings of the
citizens of each ward on that day, at such place and
hour as they may deem expedient, for the purpose of
electing warden, clerk and inspectors of each ward,
and all other officers whose election is fixed for that
day and the transcripts of the records in each ward
specifying the votes given for the several officers aforesaid,
at said meeting, and certified by the wardenand clerk of  .the ward, shall be returned to said selectmen, whose
duty it shall be to examine and compare the same and

-give notice thereof in manner before provided, to the
several persons elected. At said first meeting, list of
voters in each ward prepared and corrected by the
selectmen for the time being, shall be delivered to the
clerk of each ward, when elected, to be used as herein
before provided. After the election of the city officers
as aforesaid, the selectmen shall appoint place for
their first meeting, and shall, by written notice left at

 the place of residence of each member, notify them
thereof. It shall be the duty of the city council, immediately after the first organization, to carry into effect .
the several provisions of this act.

Sect.  This act shall be void, unless the inhabitants of the town of Holyoke, at legal town meeting
called for that purpose, shall within ninety days from the
passage of this act, by vote of majority of the voters

  CITY CHARTER.
present, voting thereon as hereinafter provided, determine to adopt the same. At said meeting the votes
shall be taken by written or printed ballots, and the
polls shall be kept open not less than six hours. The
selectmen shall preside in said meeting, and in receiving
‘said ballots shall use the check-lists in the same manner
as they are used in elections of state officers.
Sect.  This act shall take effect upon its passage.
+ HousE oF REPRESENTATIVES, |
March ,
Passed to be enacted.
JOHN EH. SANFORD, Speaker.
, In SENATE, April .
Passed to be enacted.
 GEO. B. LORING, President.
April .
Approved.
W. B. WASHBURN,
Governor of the Commonwealth.
SECRETARY’S DEPARTMENT,
Boston, April .
A true copy. —
OLIVER WARNER,
. Secretary of the Commonwealth.

) Digitized by Google

Digitized by Google

CITY GOVERNMENT,  .
MAYOR:
W. B. C. PEARSONS, |
| Suffolk Street.
ALDERMEN :
WILLIAM GROVER, ... Canal Street.
| HENRY A. CHASE, ... Main Street. |
AUGUST STURSBERG, South Street.
JOHN H. WRIGHT, ... High Street.
JOHN O'DONNELL, .. .. Lyman Street.
GEORGE W. PRENTISS, Chestnut Street.
JAMES F. ALLYN, .. .. .. Pleasant Street.

  CITY GOVERNMENT.
: COMMON COUNCIL:
CHARLES H. HEYWOOD, PresipEnv.
Ward One.
WILLIAM RUDDY, Hadley Corpor’n.
CURTIS MOORE, .. Mosher Street.
JAMES RUDDY, .. Hadley Corpor’n.
, Ward Two.
CHARLES B. HARRIS,. Holyoke House.
SANDFORD F. STEBBINS, Holyoke House.
GEORGE W. BURDITT, Race Street.
Ward Three.
MARTIN LAWLOR, .. Main Street.
FREDERIC KREIMENDAHL, Park Street, 
MATTHEW WELSH, Park Street.
Ward Four.
HENRY G. PIERCE, Hampden Block.
ALVIN C. PRATT, Lyman Block.
WILLIAM D. HIGGINS, digh Street.
| Ward Five.

.. MAURICE LYNCH, .. Elm Street.
JEREMIAH A. SULLIVAN, Elm Street.
JOHN O'CONNELL, .. Lyman Street.

Ward Siz.
TIMOTHY MERRICK, Chestnut Street.
CHARLES H. HEYWOOD, Chestnut Street.
JOHN DELANEY, .. Dwight Street.
Ward Seven.
HENRY A. PRATT, North’pton Street.
REUBEN WINCHESTER, North’pton Street.
ROSWELL M..FAIRFIELD, North’pton Street.

CITY GOVERNMENT.  
CITY CLERK.
Epwin A. Ramsay, Pine, near Essex St.
CLERK OF COMMON COUNCIL.
CHARLES W. RipER,. ...... RaceSst.
| Chogen on first Monday in January. City Charter  .
MESSENGER TO CITY COUNCIL.
Joun H. CLirrorp, Hadley Corporation.
Chosen by concurrent vote in January. See Ordinance.
. MEETINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
The regular meetings of the City Council are held at
City Government Rooms, on Monday evening of each
week, at o'clock.

 Committees of City Council.
JOINT COMMITTEES :

On Financr. The Mayor, Alderman Prentiss the
President of the Common Council, and Messrs. Moore
and Merrick.

On Accounts. Aldermen Grover and O’Donnell ;
Messrs. Merrick, H. A. Pratt and O’Connell.

On HIGHWAYS, SIDEWALKS AND BRIDGES. The May-.

- or, Aldermen Chase, Allyn and Wright; Messrs. Winchester, Delaney, Fairfield and Welsh.

On City Property. Aldermen Grover and Stursberg Messrs. Pierce, Harris and Sullivan.

On FIRE DEPARTMENT. Aldermen Chaseand Wright;
Messrs. Ruddy, Burditt and Lawlor.

On FUEL AND STREET Licuts. Aldermen Allyn and
O’ Donnell Messrs. Harris, Kreimendahl] and Lynch. 

| On Epucation. Aldermen Stursberg and Prentiss ;
Messrs. Stebbins, A. C. Pratt and Higgins. .

On Cuaims. Aldermen Prentiss and O’Donnell ;
Messrs. Delaney, Pierce and Merrick. |

On City ENGINEERING. Aldermen Allyn and Grover Messrs. Moore, Higgins and Harris.

On Printina. Alderman Chase; Messrs. Fairfield
and H. A. Pratt. |

On PAUPER DEPARTMENT. Aldermen Stursberg and
Wright; Messrs. Burditt, Lawlor and Lynch.

On SEWERS AND Drains. Aldermen Allyn and
Wright; Messrs. Delaney, Welsh and James Ruddy.

Standing Committees |
OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
On Poticr. Aldermen Chase, Allyn and Grover.
On Licenses. Aldermen O’ Donnell, Stursberg and
Chase.
On ENROLLMENT. Aldermen Grover, Sturgberg and
Prentiss. 
On ORDINANCES. Aldermen Prentiss, O’ Donnell and
Chase. |
On ELECTIONS AND ReEtTuRNS. Aldermen Allyn,
Wright and Grover.
OF THE COMMON COUNCIL.
On ORDINANCES. Messrs. Stebbins, Ruddy and O’Connell.
On ENROLLMENT. Messrs. Fairfield, Ruddy and
O’ Connell.
On ELEoTIONS AND RetTurRNsS. Messrs. Sullivan,
Welsh and Winchester.

| CITY OFFICERS.
CITY TREASURER,
CHARLES W. RANLET, Office. Hadley Falls Bank
AUDITOR OF ACCOUNTS, .
EDWIN A. Ramsay, Office, cor High and Hamd’n. Sts
Chosen by concurrent vote in February.
SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.
| DANIEL O'CONNELL, Hampden Street
Chosen by Joint Ballot in February. See Ordinance.
CITY ENGINEER,
THomas W. Mann, Office, Allyn’s Block, High St
Chosen by concurrent vote of the City Council.
CITY SOLICITOR,
EpwarD W. CuAPin, Office, Lapen’s Building
Chogen by concurrent vote, in January.
CITY PHYSICIAN.
CHARLES O. CARPENTER, Office, High Street
Chogen by Joint Ballot in January.

CITY OFFICERS.  
, ASSESSORS OF TAXES,
Amos ANDREWS, Three Years. JAMES E. DELANEY,
Two Years. JoHN E. CHASE, One Year.
Chosen by concurrent vote in February.
COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
AMOS ANDREWS, Office, Hampden Street
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR,

W. B. C. PrEarsons, Mayor. C. H. Hrtywoopn, President of Common Council.

WILLIAM A. JUDD, Three Years. JEREMIAH F. SuLLIVAN, Two Years. RoBERT HUEBLER, One Year.
Chosen by Joint Ballot in January or February.

W. B. C. Pearsons, Chairman ez-officio. J. F. Sullivan, Secy. Wm. A. Judd, Almoner. |
: CITY AGENTS, H. W. R. R.
CHARLES W. RANLET, AvuGust STURSBERG,
Ezra H. FLaae, EpwIin H. BALL,
JAMES E. DELANEY. 
WATER COMMISSIONERS, ,

JosEPH P. BucKLAND, Chairman, Three Years. DENNis Hieains, Two Years. JAMES G. SMITH,
Secretary and Treasurer, One Year.
Chogen by Joint Ballot in January or February.

  CITY OFFICERS.
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
CHIEF OF POLICE, Wiutiiam G. Ham.
PATROLMEN.
WILLIAM H. Marsu, MICHAEL SHINE,
Timotuy D. Leary, EDWARD D. ATWoop,
JEREMIAH J. CALLANAN, ALMADO  Davis, 
MAvRICE D. FENTON, EUGENE JUBENVILLE,
GEORGE E. ATCHINSON, Horatio R. FRost.
Appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen.
SPECIAL POLICEMEN.
N. L. FuLieEr, DENNIS CARNEY,
N. W. QuInt, CHARLES DOHERTY,
JAMES M. Brown.
CONSTABLES.
Wm. G. Ham, T. H. WELLINGTON,
Wm. H. Marsu, MICHAEL SHINE,
T. D. Leary, EDWARD D. ATwoop,
J. J. CALLANAN, A. P. Davis,
M. D. FENTON, H. R. Frost.
, GEORGE E. ATCHINSON. 
Appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen. ;
| SPECIAL RAILROAD POLICE.
—  W. W. Warp, A. G. HALE, E. E. PHILLIPS.
INSPECTOR OF MILK.
Gustavus Snow, ... .. Race Street
MEASURERS OF GRAIN AND MEAL.
D. E. KInasBury, FABIEN MORREAU.

CITY OFFICERS.  
MEASURERS OF WOOD AND BARK.
JAMES DOYLE, PARLEY GILMORE,
AMOS ANDREWS, S. M. GrimorgE,
E. R. CRaAFts, Wm. A. JupDD,
L. F. Haywarp, JOHN DOYLE.
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING AND PAINTING.
D. E. KINGSBURY, EF. K. BLODGETT.
T. W. MANN.
MEASURERS OF BRICK AND STONE.
D. EK. KINGSBURY,  EF. K. BLODGETT.
JAMES DOYLE. T. W. MAnn.
SURVEYORS OF LUMBER. |
A McEACHRAN, Patrick Hoaan.
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
LuTHER A. TABER, . High Street
, FIELD DRIVERS.
JOSHUA A. FRASER, FRANCIS HASTINGS.
, POUND KEEPERS.
N. L. FULLER, Cornetius KEEFE.
:  WEIGHERS OF HAY.
AvuaustTus TUTTLE, EK. R. CRAFTs.
TT. L. Curran, S. M. GILMORE.

  CITY OFFICERS.
FENCE VIEWERS.
D. B. HiTcHcock, A. D. STREET.
INSPECTORS OF PETROLEUM.
D. E. Krnessoury, Gustavus Snow.
WEIGHERS OF COAL.

AvuGustTus TUTTLE, JOHN FITZGERALD,
S. M. GILMORE, L. F. HAYWARD.
AMOos ANDREWS.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

CHIEF ENGINEER,

BENJAMIN F. MULLIN, Perkin’s Block

ASSISTANT ENGINEERS. ,
J. W. Davis, ... Elm Street.
J. D. Harpy, ... West Street.
M. D. SULLIVAN, .. Sargeant Street.
EK. P. Forp, .. .. +. Dwight Street.
E. P. Forp, Clerk of the Board, (Chosen by Engineers)
STEAMERS. |
Reliance Engine Company, No.  .
House on High Street, Members.
  €& “NN, McoKown, Foreman, C. H. Knapp, Engineer.
Relief Engine Company, No.  .
‘ouse on Main Street, Members.
| Rosy, Foreman, Geko. E. Hoae, Engineer.

CITY OFFICERS.  
HOSE CARRIAGES. :
| Mt. Tom Hose Co, No.  Race Street.
JOSEPH W. Moors, Foreman,. Members.
Mt. Holyoke Hose Co. No.  Main Street.
JACOB BuHL, Foreman, ... Members.
Emerald Hose Co. No.  High Street.
S. MaLongEy, Foreman, ... Members.
{
HOOK AND LADDER CARRIAGES.
Rescue Hook and Ladder Co. No. High St.
L. M. TuTTLE, Foreman,. “.... Members.
POLICE COURT.
JosEPH P. BUCKLAND,. Standing Justice.
W. B.  PEARsons, Special Justices.
PoRTER UNDERWOOD,

SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  .
W. B. C. PEARsons, Chairman.
L. H. MarveEt, Secretary.
MEMBERS, WHEN TERMS EXPIRE.
| A. LEINING,. Term Expires  
At Large-- E. W. CHAPIN, 
Ward  .—Jonun A. DowWER,  
“  .—F RED. MoRRISON,  
‘  .—H. SPRINGBORN,. .- 
‘  ,—PETER McKEon,*  
‘* §.—D. E. SULLIVAN, ..  
‘ .—J. G. MACKINTOSH,. 
‘ —S. H. WALKER,  
STANDING COMMITTEES.
On Exerotion. Messrs. McKeon, Leining and Walker.
On RULES AND REGULATIONS. Messrs. Mackintosh,
Chapin and Sullivan.
On FINANCE AND Accounts. Messrs. Dower, Spring: born and Morrison.
On SALARIES. Messrs. Chapin, Springborn and Mackintosh. ;
On Musto. Messrs. Walker, Dower and Leining.
 *Elected to fill vacancy caused by the death of J. D. O'Callaghan.


SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
On DRAWING AND WRITING. Messrs. Sullivan, Morrison and McKeon.
On Text Books AND PrRinTING. Messrs. Leining,
Walker and Mackintosh.
On ScHooLt HousEs anpD Repairs. Messrs. Springborn, McKeon and Chapin.
On Eveninea ScoHoorts. Messrs. Morrison, Dower and
Sullivan.  
Louis H. MARVEL, Superintendent of Public Schools.
| OFFICE,—LINCOLN’sS BLOCK.
OFFICE Hours,—  tv P. M., on days when the Schools are in session.
ae
il .
 
ii if
ii  
)
i)
i)
i) :
I
F
ye 
y)
,
e .
: |

WARD OFFICERS,  .
WARD ONE. WARD FOUR.
Warden, Simon Brown, Warden, T. W. Doyle,
Clerk, P. B. Sullivan, Clerk, Peter McKeon,
Inspectors, J. W. Moore, Inspectors, J. B. Pollitt,
G. H. Goldthwait, |. S. J. Donahue,
James Ruddy. Ira Smith.
WARD TWO. WARD FIVE.
| Warden, E. Whitaker, Warden, J.J. Callanan,
| Clerk, H. Richards, Clerk, D. M. Manning,
Inspectors, D. KE. Kingsbury, Jnspectors, M. J. Fitzgerald,
S. M. Gilmore, M. Cleary,
Chas. E. Mayo. D. J. Landers.
WARD THREE. WARD SIX.
Warden, Joseph Tracy, Warden, O. S. Tuttle,
Clerk, James A. Murphy, Clerk, K. G. Whiting,
Inspectors, James Casey, Inspectors, A. L. Shumway,
M. D. Sullivan, George Thayer,
N. J. Wells. H. C. Joslyn.
| WARD SEVEN.
Warden, Parley Gilmore,
Clerk, S. A. Hooker,
Inspectors, E. R. Crafts,
D. B. Hitchcock,
C. C. Hastings.

ell
e

.

)

Py

BS

il, ,

y

MT 

f,

.

.
\

.
‘
a
@
e +
‘

ANNUAL
REPORT or tHE SELECTMEN
Ten Months Ending Jan. ,

ce

\ ’
selectmen’s Report.
To the Honorable Mayor and City Council of the City
of Holyoke :

Herewith the Selectmen beg leave to submit the following reportwf their doings for the ten months ending Jan. :

WATER COMMISSIONERS EXPENSE.

W.B. C. Pearsons, 

J. P. Buckland,  

R. P. Crafts, copying charter,  

WATER COMMISSIONERS PAY.

Joel Russell, 

W. B. C. Pearsons,  

J. P. Buckland,  

Jobn KE. Chase, 

Dennis Higgins, 

John Delaney,  

L. P. Bosworth, —$ 

TOWN HALL FOUNDATION AND BUILDING.

Jonas Kendall,  Amount brought up, 

William Barrett, W. A. Flynt,  

Richard Ponsonby, Holyoke Machine Co.  

C. B. Atwood, J. Delaney Son,  
- McClellan Lynch, W. J. Sumner,  

T. W. Mann, Samuel Snell,  

Amount carried up,  
) CITY CHARTER.
W. B. C. Pearsons, —$ 
GRADING WEST DWIGHT STREET.
T. W. Mann, 
John McCoy Son,  —$ 

  SELECTMEN’S REPORT.
ELM AND LYMAN STREETS SEWER.
L. P. Bosworth, 
Daniel O'Connel.,  
McClellan Lynch,  
Finton Dunn,  
| HAMPDEN PARK.
W.C. Walton,  .
Stephen Day,  
John Nash,  
. Lepo Brackman,  
Daniel O’Connell,  
| PUBLIC LIBRARY.
H. A. Chase, Treasurer, --$ 
TOWN HALL LOT EXTENSION.
C. B. Prescott, -$ 
APPLETON STREET SEWER.

Samuel Snell, 
Daniel O’Connell,  
L. P. Bosworth,  

DECORATING SOLDIERS GRAVES.
G. H. Smith, Treasurer, 
EXPENSE OF RAILROAD BONDS.
Samuel Bowles Co., 
Fred Meyer Son,  
Clark W. Bryan Co.,  
Norton Blake,  
SEWERAGE SYSTEM. ,
Davis Ellsworth, 
SUFFOLK STREET SEWER.
Tower Bros., 
Daniel O’Connell,  
Davis Ellsworth,  
L. P. Bosworth,  
MAIN STREET BRIDGE.
Curry Parker, 
J. Delaney Son,  --$ 
POLICE EXPENSE.

W. G. Ham, Amount brought up, 
Ira Smith,  Cyrus R. Bagley,  

. Michael O’Shiae, Thomas O’Donnell,  
W. H. Marsh,  W.B.Whiting Co.,supplies,  
H.  Johnson,  Loomis Pomeroy, ‘“  
T. D. Leary,  J. W. Davis, “e  
James Crowley,  R. P. Crafts,  
S. M. Sylver, Tuttle Co.,  
Amount carried up,  

SELECTMEN’S REPORT.  
POND SEWER.
Daniel O’Connell, 
Samuel Snell,  --$ 
In regard to the above sewer, the Selectmen would say, that upon consultation with the Superintendent of
the H. W. R. R., it was decided to lay pipe by the
side of the railroad track about feet, to an outlet
already made, which passed under the railroad track,
and emptied into the canal. In carrying out this plan
quicksand was encountered in such quantities as to render it much more expensive than at first estimated.
. Hence the cost exds the appropriation.
TOWN PAUPERS.

Mrs. Natban Ingraham, Amount brought up, 
Mrs. Mary Sullivan, Lawrence Sullivan,  

Mrs. Patrick Gahan, Lizzie Barrett, (deceased)  
Alfred Brackett, James McFarland, (deceased)  
Medes Champion, Johannah Buckley,  
Sylvia Felt, Luther Moore,  
Ella Burlingame, Julia Shea,  
William Howe, (deceased)  John Shea,  
Michael] H. Mann, (Insane Mrs. Michael Geary, (deceased)  
Asylum)  James Wolcott,  U
Amount carried up,  

We have been called upon to provide for nine more ,

town paupers, than last year.
. STATE PAUPERS.

Thomas Jameson,  Amount brought up, 
Mrs. Brown, James Mitchell,  
Mary Gorman, Mary Still,  
- Maryaret Kelly, Timothy Shean,  
Johannah Shea, Bridget Scanlon,  
Johannah Morrison, Mary Shepard,  
John Anderson, Mary Ambrose,  
Mrs. Patrick Sullivan, Honora Moriarty,  
Lucy A. Allen,  Mary Moore,  
Timothy McGrath, Mary Riley,  
Mis. Avery,  Johannah Leary,  
James Caroline, Ellen Clarey.  

Mary Leary, Minnie Prescott, .
Julia Doyle, Tramps  
Thomas Dillon, supplies, Catherine Hagerty,  
Honora Donahoe, John Donahoe,  
Catherine Murray, Michael Lacey,  
Ellen Zync, Mrs. Chating,  
Amounirried up,  Amount carried up, 

|

. SELECTMEN’S REPORT.

Amount brought up,  Amount brought up, 
Mrs. Patrick Manning, Mrs. Fitch,  
Daniel Riley, Mrs. Hami!ton, 
Maragret Foley,  Mrs. Bartlett,  
Johannah Connor, Mrs. Thomas Lucy,  
Mrs, Danie] Hanlan and John O’Donnell, supplies,  
Children,  John Fogerty,  
Mrs. Cath. Cathorn,  Thomas Mulligan,  
Mrs. Timothy Devine, Ellen Cavanaugh,  
Michael Manning,  Mrs. James Sullivan,  
Bridget Tucker,  N. L. Fuller, supplies,  
Cath. Sullivan,  P. M. Buckley,  
Edward Theron, James O’Connor,  
Mary Burke, Insane,  Catherine Heartening,  
Johannah Foley,  |B. F. Arthur, supplies,  
Henry Martin (broken leg)  Mary Sackett,  
John Welch,  W. H. H. Ward, supplies,  
‘limothy Manning Jerry Foley,  

Ellen Sullivan,  Mary Curran, |
Cath. Moran,  John Manning,  
Bridget Connor,  Ann Murphy,  
Mary Fortune,  Margaret Owens,  
Garret Walsh,  Mary Thompson,  
Morris Shea,  Catherine Curran,  
G. P. Ellison, supplies, Johannah O’Laugblin,  
James Morrisson, Ref. Sch.,  E- M. Belden, tramps,  
Timothy Driscoll,  Mary Donahue,  
Daniel Conners,  Bridget Kearsey,  
Chas. Brown, “e  Browning Bros., supplies,  
Daniel Riley, Mrs. Landers,  
David Hermon, expense,  C. B. Harris Co., supplies,  
Michael Healey, supplies, John Shea, Jr.,  
Bridget Murphy,  R. Gates Co., supplies,  
W. W. Ward, Agent, supplies, W. Shaw,  
Ann Bennett.  James Brick,  
Jane McGuire,  Peter Todre,  
Edward Bennett,  H. A. Kent,  
Catherine Bosmer,  C. E. Ball Co., supplies,  
Ellen Bosmer,  E. P. Ford,  
Anon Radcliff,  Jaines Weldron,  
Enoch Ashley, supplies,  Mary Shean,  
Eliza Miller,  Mary McDonald,  
Doyle Finn, supplies,  Albert Ellison, supplies,  
Mrs. Mary Murphy, James Bryant,  
James Doody, supplies,  Jeanette Welch,  
F. H. Hastings, supplies,  H. A. Kenny,  
Ellen Smith, Cherry Courtin,  
George Goure, Margaret Conners  
W. G. Ham, ex. to Tewksbury, Thomas Chedle, 
E. Perkins, supplies,  Mary Donahue,  
G. B. Fay,Treas.St.sch.for girls.  Mary Shehee,  
L. W. Perkins, supplies,  |L. M. Tuttle, Town  

, Mrs. Riendon, Physician, &c.,

Thomas Besso,  C. Spaulding,  
Issac Perry, supplies, John Cavanaugh,  
| Johannah Sullivan, Daniel Donahue,  
C. H. Hatfield, tramps, Cena Maloney,  
Anount carried up,  

oe

SELECTMEN’S REPORT.  
We have provided for forty more cases than last year,
- and have been called upon to care for several very severe cases.
State Paupers Buriat or Deap.
John Greno, Amount brought up, 
Augustus Tatin, Joseph Bossom,  
John O'’Filley,  Charles Lapointe,  
Thomas Gavel,  John Mulligan,  
Jobu Sullivan, Magzie Mulligan,  
Michael Foley, John D’Garden,  .
Timothy Shean, Eugene D’Garden,  
Bridget Foley,  Emily Lapointe,  
Rose Shating, Mary Carey,  
George Shating, Leander Brothers,  
Frenchman, pest-house, Jerry Foley Jr.,  
Margaret Lacy, Norris Stone,  
Levi Blossman,  Frenchman, OU
John Baimaied, Daucoss Lacoste,  
John Rando, John McRose,  
Harris Jandioand,  Sarah Kane,  
J. Degarden, Bridget Kane,  
Eugene Degarden,  James W. Shepard,  
F. BE. Gane,  Peter Tadre,  
A. Hamil,  
Amount carried up,  
STATE AID.
Esther A. Bean, Amount brought up,  |
Aloisa M. Avery,  Patrick McGee, Guardian,  
Emily A. Chambers,  Ann Harrington,  
Ann Cushing, Jesse Green,  
Geo. H. Perry, Guardian, Sylvester Myers,  
John Norris, Charity Decker,  
Mary Cain, Honora Foley,  
Mary Sullivan,  John McMahon,  
Mary Gorman, Ellen Maboney,  
Ellen Donihue, Samuel  S. Chapman,  
Mary Devine, Jobannah McCarthy,  
. Edwin Chase, Guardian,  Wm. Shaftoe,  
Joseph Bergen,  Henry H. Meacham,  
Amount carried up,  

  SELECTMEN’S REPORT.

In regard to Small-pox the Selectmen beg leave to say
that there has been one hundred and eighty one 
cases since the last report, seventy-three proving
fatal. large percentage of the cases were among the
French portion of our citizens, and being mostly small
children. From the best information we can obtain we
believe many cases have resulted from inoculation, and
yet it would be difficult to obtain sufficient eyidence to
convict any of the parties under suspicion.

HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.’
James Sullivan  d,  Amount brought up, 
James Sullivan ist,  M. L. Wright, supplies,  
Anthony Cusly,  S. Post,  
Michael Riley Ist,  A. Willard,  
Dennis Cathall, Jerry Dowd, 
Patrick Riley  d, Stephen Day, snow bill,  
Samuel Towers,  John Shean, supplies,  
Patrick Griffin,  Thomas White, ‘s  
Michael Craney, Michael H. Burke,  
Patrick Branan, Peter Kennedy,  
Patrick Donahoe,  Eugene Moriarty,  
John Graney,  /| Join Nayson,  
James Larry, Dennis Manning,  
John Quinn,  Martin Foley,  
Israel] Burrell,  John Cherry,  
Geo. Gordon,  Abbott Knights,  
Maurice Costello,  Jerry Foley,  
James Ryley, Florence Harrington,  
John Bartlett, Patrick McGee,  
Philip Naylor,  Peter Smith,  
Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Griffin,  
Edw: Cain,  H. W. Jones,  
Edwin Calliban,  James Ryley,  
Timothy McCarthy,  Patrick Bowler Jr.,  
Louis Fife, Cornelius Sullivan, .
Jobn O’Brine,  Patrick Bowler Jr.,  
Artbur Dunks,  Jerry Shea,  
Jonathan Olds,  Eli Dean,  
Stephen Lambert, Johu Costello,  
A. N. Meacham,  Wm. Maley,  
Michael Tadro and others,  H.C. Wolcott,  
John Lynch, Johu O'Donnell,  d,  
J. M. O’Connell,  A. C. Ellison,  
Austin Goodyear,  John McCoy,  
Moses Inman,  /| Farrington Burdett,  
i Ethial Clapp, L. L. Hooker, Highway, 
Michael Leonard, Daniel O’Connell,  
Enoch Olds, E. D. Shelley,  
J.  Spencer, Finton Dunn,  
Stephen Rand, J. Russell Co.,  
L. L. Hooker, snow bill,  D. H.& J. C. Newton, plank,  
Daniel O’Connell, ‘“  Wiggin Flagg,  
Eugene Jubenville,  A. Newton,  
Amount carried up,  

SELECTMEN’S REPORT.  
. CONTINGENT.
W.  Loomis, Town Clerk, Amount brought up, ) W. J. Sumner, So. Holyoke
W.  Loomis, Clerk,  Ferry,  
C. W. Ranlet, Treas., Henry Spencer, Telegrams,  
C. W. Ranlet, Daniel O’Connell,  
C. W. Ranlet, Expense,  Wait Carter,  
Timothy Merrick, paid G. M. Loomis Kirtland,  
Stearns,  J. Delaney Son,  
Reward paid arrest of murderer J. Delaney, services exof Thompson, penses, 
W. G. Ham, Expense,  E. H. Ball,expenses to Boston,  
J- Russell Co.,  A. Newton,  
Porter Underwood, Rent,  N. L. Fuller,  
James EK. Delaney, Auditor,  J. Crowley, Expense,  
H. A. Chase,  E. Chase Sons,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  L. A. Taber, Sealer weights &c. 
Parsons Pa. Co., Rent of hall, Dennis Vonavan,  
Parsons ‘“ Rent ot G. W. Gibson,  
militia ball, Finton Dunn,  
Lyman Kirtland, Printing Pattee Perkins, So. Holyoke
Reports,  Ferry,  
P. Buckley, Land Rent,  Geo. W. Prentiss Co. Su.
Tower Bros., Holyoke Ferry,  
Hatfield Gaylord,  John McCabe,  
Amos Andrews, Assessor,  E. T. Richards Son,  
Amos Andrews, labor on Asa Willard,  
Check List, Joseph Prew, Interpreter,  
Joseph Murray, Assessor,  Doyle Finn, supplies,  .
 James Doyle,  Wiggin Flagg,  
Alfred Day, counting votes,  L. P. Bosworth,  
Henry Fairfield, “e  J. P. Buckland,  
George Nightingale, ‘“  T. H. Wellington,  
J. W. Davis,  R. B. Johnson, Insurance on
Chas. Brown, School] buildings,  
C. L. Farrington,  Geo. A. Avery, So. Hol. Ferry,  
H. C. Joslyn,  Rufus Mosher, ‘“ 
Roswell Callender, Damages,  Rufus Mosher, Expense 
W.A. Judd, extra service nights Geo. A. Avery,  
in Small-pox cases,  W. G. Ham, Expense,  
W. A. Judd, Services as W.B. C. Pearsons, Services
Selectman &e.,  and Expense from  to
W. A. Judd, use of team,  January,  inclusive,  
W.A. Judd. Postage stamps,  Gustavus Snow, milk Inspec,  
W.A. Judd, Paper Envel.,  Witness Fees in Burke case,,  
John O'Donnell, Select- N. B. Hussey Co., labor water
man &c., connections,  
John O’Donnell, Expense,  G. J. Barnes,  
Ezra H. Flagg, Select- E. V. Haughwout Co.,  
man, &c.,  John L. Delaney,  
Loomis Pomeroy, sup.,  Farmer, Little Co.,  
D. E. Kingsbury,  E. D. Shelley,  
Eli Dean, So. Holyoke Ferry,  John Shea,  
R. Fuller,  R. P. Crafts Son,  
R. Fuller, Raisiag Police H.  Hastings, damage,  
Station,  H. Hutchins’ Estate Rent,  
A. Cain,  Geo. P. Ellison, ;
Patrick Curley,white washing B. B. Hill,  
lock-up, T. McGrath,  
T. B. Shepard, posting Kelham, Fitz Co.,  
health notices, }
Amount carried up,  

  SELECTMEN’S REPORT. |
BOARD OF HEALTH.
Ellen Agin, Amount brought up, 
’B. F. Arthur, Clipper Colby,  
Eli Dean, N. L. Fuller,  
E. L. Draper, old, Patrick Riley, nurse,  
J.  Dow,  T. B. Shepard,  |
- Holyoke Water Power Co.,  W. J. O’Donnell, supplies, 
A. Tuttle Co., supplies, E. L. Draper, vaccination,  
John O’Donnell, ‘“  /}C. O. Carpenter, ‘“  
L. W. Perkins, Taylor Davis,  
Jeremiah Godin, nurse,  J. U. Woods, “e  
Ellen Anderson, J. C. E. Godin,  
Felix McCabe, C. Blodgett,  
Mark Rose,  G. H. Smith, “e  
Daniel O’Connell others,  Dr. Mitivier, “e  
Loomis Pomeroy, supplies,  |L. M. Tuttle,  
’ F. H. Hastings,  A. Higginbottom, supplies.  
Mary Crowley, nurse  |E. Chase Sons,  
Wm. B. Whiting Co., sup.,  J.J. O'Conner, |
J. O. Wild,  N. B. Chase, vaccination,  
Wiggin Flagg, G. W. Davis,  
P. M. Buckley, R. P. Crafts, supplies,  
L. M. Tuttle,  
$  
SCHOOLS SUPERINTENDENTS SALARY.
George R. Chase, 
SCHOOLS TEACHERS PAY.
Geo. W. Edwards, Amount brought up, 
H. E. Pepper,  E. F. Carlton,  
K. C. Chapman,  E. L. Wellman,  
. L. P. Collins, ..  C. J. Searle,  
M. J. Day,  A. R. Hallett,  
E. L. Finch, E. M, Carlton,  
H. A. Higginbottom, Lucia R. Gates,  
P. J. Kneeland, Helen  Sibley,  
E.  Morgan,  Annie N. Davis,  
A. M. Morgan, Gertrude E. Ball,  
OO. E. Maxfield,  E. A. Flanders,  
E. Pendleton,  A. L. Hill,  
H. M. Sears, Millie E. Knight,  
A. A. Smith,  Ellen M. Smith,  
KE. J. Whitaker, L. R. Lord,  
L. K. Washburn, Nellie Thayer,  
J. E. Rider, Fannie E. Loomis,  
M. Kelt, Eva E. Leet,  
F. E. Kelt,  Mary L. Bodfish,  
H. B. Lawrence, Sarah E. Ely,  
A. L. Brigham,  E. A. Kibbe,  
A. P. Dudley,  Ellen S. Smith,  
E. Foster,  A. C. Flanders,  
C. M. Branscomb,  
Amount carried up,  

SELECTMEN’S REPORT.  
SCHOOLS FUEL AND OARE.

H.  Williams Jr., Amount brought up, 
John Enwright, Helen S. Sibley,  
H.  Williams, Eddy Ester,  
John Otis, |S. B. Winchester,  
Winnie Hanson, James O. Stone,  
John Moore, Michael Tatro,  
D. F. Donohue, F. P. Newkirk,  
R. Parsons, Herbert Cook,  
T. L. Alderman,  C. J. Searle,  
L. K. Washburn,  /G. K. Griffin,  
Rufus Winchester, Holyoke Lumber Co.,  
Frank N. Bunds, Caleb Belden,  
Parsons Paper Co., A. E. Parsons, AY  
M. A. H. Childs, Lizzie Thorpe,  

Albert C. Ellison,  
. Amount carried up,  

SCHOOL FURNITURE.
R. P. Crafts Son, 
MAPS AND BOOKS OF REFERENCE.
Gill Hayes, 
H. L. Brainard,  
Whitney Ada ms,  
G. L. Hammet, 
Cowperthwait Co.,  
$ SCHOOL REPAIRS AND CONTINGENT.
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  Amountbrought up, 
George R. Chase, F. R. Norton,  
Michael Moriarty, H. N. Farnum,  
A. E. Parsons, N. B. Hussey Co.,  
, Watson Ely.  A. Cain,  
Farrington Burditt,  B. F. Arthur,  
H.  Williams, P. Underwood,  
Tower Bros., John Shea, .-  
J. E. Hammet, M. R. Warner,  
John Bostwick,  M. R. Glover,  
Parsons Paper Co.,  W.J. Meacham,  
West Springfield, Loomis Kirtland,  
Loomis Pomeroy, Norton Blake,  
Thomas Laving,  A. Tuttle Co.,  
Wiggin Flagg,  |G. H. Flint,  
James Doherty,  |S. Worthington,  S. T. Lyman Son, Crafts Fraser,  
P. M. Buckley,  Boston daily paper,  
M. L. Kidder,  A. Tebedo,  
George P. Ellison, S. Bowles,  
L. P. Bosworth, E. W. Chapin,  
Amount carried up,  
P

  SELECTMEN’S REPORT.
) RECAPITULATION.
Water Commissioners Expense,........ ecce ssesecs sHpoUe  
Water Commissioners Pay,........ ere cce es    eens  a, OO
Town Hall Foundation and Building,............... .. +-  
City Charter Expense,. .......-..    eres  coerce rot  
Grading West Dwight Street,...........cc cc      
Elm and Lyman Strect sewer,.......  ...       BOl  
Hampden Park,...........     sees see secscsc hd  
Public Library,...  ... cc        cents see ss  
Town Hall Lot Extension,........ ..  ... ce        
Appleton Street sewer,....... cc  ce   ecw  csv es 
Decorating Soldiers’ Graves,.........   ce      cence LO 
Expense on Raiiroad Bonds, .......  ...  e ence etl  
Sewerage SVSt€M.....     eereres tec  se  
Suffolk Street sewer,......... ce   cctoe  te evecerse es  
Main Street Bridge,.....  ...    ce          fQ 
Police Expense,............  cere   ce eet cscs   
Pond Sewer,.......     ce    ccene es  lL,  
Town Paupers,.......         wer   reve cceccecces se cl bl  
State Paupers,..........         ec    sees ec ce es  
State Paupers, Burial of Dead. .......  cc   ce      es  
State Aid... ..   ce cc    cet   etec   ecs  
Contingent,.. co... cc ce  cc ce    wee cc cc cere  acess  
Board of Health,...........      ts cnc ees 
Highways and Bridges,.............    cree  Os 
School Superintendent’s Salary,......  co.cc  ce   sees    
School Teachers Pay,..........  ...     cess csces  
School Fnel and Care,....  ... ce     eens ce   
School Furuiture,......  ...           ees ccsee eld  
School Maps and Books of Reference,............... cec  edd  
School Repairs and Contingent,..........        
$ 
The Selectmen beg leave to state that the vouchers for
the foregoing statement are on file in the office of the
City Clerk also, that before the city election it became
necessary to entirely change the form of the check lists,
the City charter requiring seven separate check lists in
place of the two town lists. The town owning the material of the town lists, we decided it to be the most
economical to purchase additional material so as to keep
the lists standing ready to use at any time, and save the
cost of having them reset every time they were needed.
We did so, and the city own the forms, and only pay
for the labor of new names and correcting the lists.
Respectfully submitted,
W. A. JUDD, SELECTMEN ,
JOHN O'DONNELL, OF
K. H. FLAGG, HOLYOKE.
Holyoke, Mass., Feb. .
b

REPORT
TOWN LTREASURER
Ten Months Ending Jan, ,

,
OO |

 
Treasurer’s Report.
| gy
To the Honorable Mayor and City Council of the City
of Holyoke —
RECEIPTS.

Cash balance March 
Bills Payable,  
A. Andrews, collector of Taxes,  
A. Andrews, Front street sewer,  
A. Andrews, Crescent street sewer,  
A. Andrews, Dwight and Appleton street sewer,  
State, for State aid,  
State, for State paupers,  
State, for Militia mileaye,  
State, for Corporation Tax,  
State, for Militia bounty,  
State, for Contagious diseases,  
State, for National bank Tax,  
Town of Southampton, account of schoo:.s,  
Licenses,  
Police Court fines,  
Town Bonds, Holyoke W. R. R. Co. Stock, .
Premium on Town Bonds,  
Accrued interest on Bonds, 
For Grass on Hampden Park,  
Sundries, for broken glass,  —$  

Note.—A. Andrews has paid in on sewers since date of this report, 

W. G. Ham has paid in for officers fees since date of this report,  

TREASURER’S REPORT. ,
PAYMENTS.
Bills Payable, 
Town Hall Foundation,  
“ Building,  
“  Lot Extension,  
“ Overseer,  
Highways and Bridges,  
Police,  
Paupers,  
Board of Health,  
Contingent Expenses,  
School Teachers,  
“ Old accounts,  
School Superintendent,  
School Repuirs and Contingent,  
Maps and Books of Reference,  
Fuel and Care of Schools,  
Firemen,  
Engineers and Firemen of Steamers,  
Interest on notes,  
Interest to Holyoke W. R. R. Co.,  
‘on Water Bonds,  
“ on H. W. R. R. Bonds,  
State Aid,  
Holyoke Public Library,  
Decoration Day Expenses,  
Improvements on West Dwight street,  
Main street Iron Bridge,  
City Charter Expenses,  
First Fire District,  
“ O)d account,  
State Tax, :
National Bank Tax,  
Sewer, High to Suffolk street, east of High  
Extension of Appleton street sewer, ;
Water Commissioner’s services,  
Hampden Park,  
Land Damage, Bowers and Mosher streets,  
Plan and estimates, for system of sewerage,  
Sewer, near Cabot street,  
State Militia,  
Holyoke Westtield R. R. Stock,  
Water Charter Expense,  
Elm and Walnut street sewer,  
So. Holyoke sewer contract, (old acct.)  
Balance Cash on hand,  -—$ 

, TREASURER’S REPORT.  
LEDGER BALANCE JAN. .
Cash on hand, Holyoke Westfield R. R. ,
Town account, Bonds, 
Holyoke Westfield R. R. Holyoke Water Bonds, 
Stock, Bills Payable,  
Holyoke Water Commis- Town Hall,  
sioners, First Fire District,  
A. Andrews, Collector,  State of Massachusetts,  
Interest on Holyoke W. Water Commissioner's
R. R. Bonds, services,  
Engineers and Firemen of Front and Prospect street
Steamers, sewer,  
Contingent, Interest on Holyoke Water
School repairs and Con- Bonds,  
tingent,. Land damages, Bowers and
Sewer near Cabot street, Mosher streets,  
State Militia, Non-resident Bank Stock,  
- Interest,  
System of sewerage,  
Elm Walnut street sewer,  
School Teachers,  
: Firemen,  
Town Hall overseer,  
Sewer between Elm, Walnut
and Dwight streets,  
Crescent street sewer,  
Expenses of Water Committee, )
Expenses of Sewer Committee, 
State aid,  
Paupers,  
School Furniture,  
Fuel and Care of Schools,  
Front and Fountain street
sewer,  
Superintendent of Schools,  
Board of Health,  
Hampden Park,  
Police,  
Highways and Bridges,  
Decoration Day,  
Maps and Books of reference,  
Main street Iron bridge,  
Licenses,  
Thorpe street sewer,  
Engineer Water Works,  
Extension of Appleton street
sewer,  
West Dwight street,  
City Charter,  
Water Works Charter,  
Sewer rear High to Suffolk
street,  
$  

  TREASURER’S REPORT.
INDEBTEDNESS OF THE TOWN.
| Holyoke Water Bonds, 
Holyoke and Westfield Railroad Bonds,  
Notes to State of Massachusetts,  
‘* to Greenfield Savings Bank,  
“ to Franklin Savings Institution, Greenfield,  
‘to Institution for Savings, Newburyport,  
“to Plymouth Savings Bank,  
‘* to Berkshire Co. Savings Bank,  
‘to Arlington Savings Bank,  
* to Cape Ann,  
‘to Home Savings Bank, Boston,  
* to Mrs. J. M. O’Riley, 
Total amount of indebtedness to date, 
To this should be added the award of the Bridge Commission, with interest from October )
INTEREST.
Seven per cent. is the uniform rate of interest paid on allthe loans |
made during the year.
BONDS FOR HOLYOKE WESTFIELD R. R. STOCK.
Sixty thousand of the second issue of these bonds were sold at premium of one-half of one per cent., except which was sold for onefourth of one per cent. premium, and accrued interest, was paid
for premium, and  for accrued interest. No commission was paid
for selling the bonds.

TREASURER’S REPORT.  
Statement of special appropriations made at various dates since  on
which no money has been raised either by taxes or loan; with the amount
paid, and the amount now due as ordered by the Selectmen on the several
accounts.
APPROPRIATIONS. PAID. DUE.
C. T. Judd and Holyoke Water
Power Co., land damages,  
Sewers, Prospect street and laterals,  
Sewers, Walnut and Elm, Dwight and
Appleton,  
Sewers, Walnut and Elm, Dwight to
Lyman streets,  
Sewers cn Crescent street,  
‘‘ Extension of Lyman street sewer,  
“ ‘“ Appleton street sewer,  
“ Front street and laterals,  
“ Dwight to Suffolk, east of High, 
“e Riverside,  
“  Patch,  
‘  Thorpe street,  
“s Near Cabot street,  
‘ Committee’s expenses,  
Salaries of Water Commissioners,  
Estimates and Surveys for Sewerage,  
Iron Bridge on Main street,  
Sidewalk to Appleton st. school house,  
Surveys and lobbying for water-works,  
Additional expenses engineering waterworks,  
Care of Hampden Park,  
Interest on Water Bonds,  
Expenses of city charter,  
Deficiency in Lyman street bridge acct.,  
Interest on town debt,  
Dec.  Police additional,  
Expenses of Decoration Day,  
Paupers additional,  
Highways and Bridges,  
Board of Health additional,  
Contingent expenses additional,  
Pay of Firemen additional,  
School repairs and contingent additional,  
City Hall foundation, balance, .
City Hall building; balance,  
$   
The amount paid and due on these accounts is, 
from which may be deducted the sums raised by taxes to
pay town indebtedness as follows:
March,  
“  —$  —
$ 
The money paid on these several accounts has been taken from the prods of taxes levied for current expenses and other appropriations, and
from other funds in the Treasury. In addition to the  needed on


  TREASURER’S REPORT.

the City Hall loan, and  deficiency on the foundation loan, an appropriation of  will be necessary to cover the deficiency in the accounts from which the funds have been taken the authority to make the

loans having expired with the town organization.

The following isa statement of amounts ordered on the several accounts in excess of the appropriations, nearly all of which is still due, except tne interest on the second issue of Bonds for the Holyoke Westfield Railroad Stock, which has been paid out of the general funds.
Contingent expenses, 

Engineers and Firemen of Steamers,  
January coupons on H. W. R. R. Bonds,  
School repairs and contingent,  
Sewer near Cabot street,  
Paupers,  
Board of Health,  
Highways Bridges,  
Water Charter and lobbying,  —$ 

An appropriation sufficient to cover these several sums is needed at an

early date.
| SEWER ACCOUNT.

Statement of the amount of appropriations on account of the several
sewers, and the amount paid by the town; also the amount received by assessment from parties benefited. |

Front street, trunk and laterals. Appropriation, Paid, Received on laterals, .

Prospect street, trunk and laterals. Appropriation, Paid,

| Received on laterals, as per report of  ($  has
been paid since Jan.  th,) and there is considerable sum yet due and uncollected, the amount of which has not been returned tv the Treasurer.

Riverside sewer. Appropriation, Paid, Received ,
 Account closed. )

Crescent street sewer. Appropriation, Received, 
reported due and uncollected on this sewer.

, Appleton street extension trunk. Appropriation, Paid .

Lyman street extension. Appropriation, Paid, .

Elm and Walnut, Dwight to Appleton. Appropriation, Paid,
$ Received, Account closed.

Elm and Walnut, Dwight to Lyman. Appropriation Paid, No assessment on this sewer has been made.

Dwight to Suffolk east of High street. Appropriation, Paid,
$ No assessment on this sewer has been made.

Thorpe street sewer. Appropriation, Paid, No assessment on this sewer has been made.

Patch sewer. Appropriation, Paid, No assessment
has been made on this sewer. ,

TREASURER’S REPORT. |
aD ap The account with A. Andrews, collector for the year  stands as folbe at lows:
Ke the DR.
To amount of State Taxes, 
County Taxes,  
ral at Town Taxes,  
tie oF Overlay on Taxes,  
Wee  Fire District Taxes, !
‘  Overlay on District Taxes,  
“ Non resident bank tax, —$ 
Cr.
By payment of County Tax,  .
‘* cash at sundry dates,  
Balance,  A—$ 
Dr.
me To balance, 
[at would recommend that part of the present unfunded indebtedness of the city, together with such
other loans as may be necessary to meet the bridge asseven sessment, and to complete the city hall, be funded into
  bye seven per cent. bonds and that authority for this purpose be requested of the present legislature.
ad Of the present debt, is due on demand ,Pp ®
Pai will be due in  in in
ahs  in  in  and  in
snd to  The call loans may be presented for payment at
ute any time, and are liable to be demanded when most inved fl convenient, and perhaps difficult for the city to pay.
. From the greater convenience of transfer and hypothe- |
of cation, the additional facilities afforded for collecting
rr the interest, and popular assumption of the requisite
— authority and prodings for the issue, bonded loan
Pil is more readily negotiated and always commands a
wider range of buyers than any other form of indebteduid, ness. There is growing caution with investors in taking miscellaneous loans for municipal purposes, from a
Pal fear of informalities and irregularities in the prodings authorizing such loans; and they usually prefer
oe such loans as are sanctioned by special legislative au- thority. seven per cent. bond protected by provispss iite!

  TREASURER’S REPORT.
ion for sinking fund, would probably command a
small premium, especially if advantage were taken of a
favoring market, while the difficulty of borrowing at so
low rate on promissory notes, becomes more apparent
as the funded obligations of corporations continue to increase in the market. If the bonds should be made in
three series of twenty, twenty-five, and thirty years respectively, the date of payment on all would pass be| yond the maturity of other bonds issued by the town,
and would be favorable both for negotiation and pay- —
ment. With the aid of the sinking fund, accumulated
through series of years, prompt payment of the bonds
would be assured, and the burden thereof become less
onerous or apparent to the people. |
These bonds could be disposed of from time to time |
as the needs of the Treasury may require; orsoldin —
round amounts whenever favorable opportunity should
occur. !
If some funding process should not be adopted, then !
provision should be made by the next tax levy for pay- |
ment of the demand loan, and the notes maturing next
year.
, CHAS. W. RANLET,
TREASURER OF HOLYOKE.
Holyoke, Jan. |
| |

REPORT. —
WATER COMMISSIONERS
 nowN oF HOLYOKE.

Digitized by Google

ate
Commissioners’ Report. |
To the City Council of Holyoke :—

The undersigned Water Commissioners of the Town
of Holyoke, respectfully submit their second and final
report.

Our report of March left us with certain work
to be performed at the rock cut; pipes to be laid, and
dam, culvert and gate house to be finished.

The dam and culvert were finished by Mr. Norton
without any unexpected hindrances. The former engineer of the works whom we permanently suspended last
May, had formerly builta crib about the location of
the gate house, as protection while building the
house but upon pumping out the water, the crib was

, found wholly insuflicient, and it collapsed.

We then built substantial coffer-dam by piling and
sheathing, sufficient to withstand the pressure of water,
but owing to the peculiar nature of the soil at that point,
and the springs that flowed in upon us, either from the
pond or natural sources, we were obliged to use pump
night and day for about two months on the gate house
and also another month to keep the water from the
trench while laying pipes between the cut and the pond.
This last expense was shared in part by the contractors.
We have laid the last season, about four and one-half
miles of cast iron pipes, and two and one-fifth miles of
smaller wrought iron pipe, which added to the amount

  COMMISSIONERS’ REPORT.

formerly reported makes nearly sixteen and seventenths miles of mains. Messrs. E. D. Davis and Ellsworth
have acted as engineers since May last. They have been
active and, vigilant, and considering their experience
have proved themselves quite capable. Their report appended will give details of the portion of pipes, gates,
etc.

A detailed statement of our Treasurer is also annexed
to this report, and general summary of cost may be
stated nearly accurate, as follows —

Pipe, 
Pipe laying, including all mains,  
Inspecting,  
Engineering,  
Incidentals, teaming, etc.,  .
Lumber,  
Printing,  
Hydrants,  
Valves,  
Land Damages,  
Tools and material,  
Culvert, Tannery Brook,  
‘ between ponds,  
— Cut, “e  
Coffer-dam and gate house, —--§,  
Dam at outlet,  
Rock cut,  
Karth excavation,  
Distribution,  
Collecting,  
Superintendent,  
$ 

—
COMMISSIONERS’ REPORT.  
ot The expense of this enterprise though much larger
Tea than was anticipated, will be found, on examination of
sa the cost of other water works, nothing in excess of first- |
- class works, and when we consider the obstacles in our
rt ap. |
sale way, and which have been overcome, we flatter our selves that our people have good work, at fair cost.
. In the matter of pipe alone, the cost is more than ,- |
ea above the original estimate.
yh Men of judgment may consistently differ in opinion in
regard to the most feasible route by which to reach the
HH ponds, but after an experience of more than one year
Mil! and half— after looking the ground all over, and
Diet weighing all the chances and probabilities of other
Sh courses your commissioners are satisfied with the
BN route taken, as the best, and most economical, and one
Sid fi which they would again pursue if called to the duty.
i The rock cut with its accompanying hard pan and
[Fd quicksand, was found more and more difficult as we
fan penetrated the earth, but perseverance and energy under
mol discouraging conditions, at last brought us to the end,
  and water flowed from the gate house through the pipes
  on the sixth of August last. We congratulate our-.
“ily selves that this great work has been accomplished with out important accident to either life or property. Under
yrs the directions of Mr. Hollis Simpson, large quantities of
  nitro-glycerine were used rocks and debris were drawn )
pegh out of the pit by steam; the steam drill was kept run  ning, and to the care, vigilance, and good judgment of
“an Mr. Simpson, may be ascribed in large measure, our imuit munity from those terrible accidents which so often ocot cur in such enterprises. vote of thanks was tendered
— by the Board to Mr. Simpson which was richly deDS served.
We congratulate the people that this work has been
completed with such comparatively reasonable expense,
and that they have supply of the long needed, long
wished for, pure water. To be instrumental in initiating, executing, and completing an enterprise of such

  COMMISSIONERS’ REPORT.
great domestic and sanitary importance, is honor and
pleasure enough for one life-time, and those of our fellow citizens who first enlisted in this work, and have
since aided, and encouraged us in our labors, will long
be remembered by an appreciative people.

W. B.C. PEARSONS, |

DENNIS HIGGINS,

| L. P. BOSWORTH, Commissioners.
J. P. BUCKLAND,
J. RUSSELL,
January Treasurer’s Report. |
J. RUSSELL, in account with Holyoke Water Works.
DR. |
Amount of Cash on hand, March 
To Cash received of First Fire District,  
for Distribution Pipes,  
Miscellaneous sources,  
Interest on Deposits,  
Water Rents,  
, 
CR.

By Vash paid John McCoy Son, labor, 
: Allen Co., laying pipe,  
Starr Co., pipe,  
Pattee Perkins, labor,  
Miscellaneous,  
Engineer,  
Wiggin Flagg, lumber,  
Tower Bros., labor,  
Printing,  
J. Russell Co., material,  
. Nitro Glycerine,  
Goldsmith Norton, labor,  
Ingersoll Rock}Drill Co.,  
Holyoke Machine Co., pipe,  
Ludlow Valve Co., gates,  
Amount carried forward, 

 TREASURER’S REPORT.

Amount brought forward, 
By Munn Miller, castings,  
Land Damages,  
W. B. Whiting Co., coal,  
Atlantic Giant Powder Co.,  
W. W. Jenks, labor,  
, N. B. Hussey Oo., laying pipe,  
Austin Goodyear, supplies,  
Wait Carter, teams,  
| F. N. Goldsmith, labor,  
D. H. J. C. Newton, engineers,  
N. L. Fuller, teams,  
C.R. H. W. R. R., freight,  
John Spencer, labor,  
N. Y. Lead Co., lead,  
McClallan Lynch, labor,  
Ii. C. Joslyn, labor,  
| Asa Willard, labor,  
Warren Foundry Machine Co., pipe,  
P. M. Buckley, labor,  
L. P. Bosworth, brick-work,  
W.  H. Rayner, slating,  
Labor on pay rolls,  
Balance on hand, Jan.  
$ 

| JOEL RUSSELL, Treasurer.

Lt ,
i)
 Hngineer’s Report. |
  |
a Holyoke, Mass., January .
' To the Board of Water Commissioners —
wi Gentlemen, We herewith submit the following, —
fe made up for the most part of tables and statistics, as
Me an accompanying paper to your report, in order to show
bs more in detail the doings of your Board, by which water
™ has been introduced into the city —
iy) ;
cu STATEMENT OF PIPE LAID.
™ The amount of pipe laid since the last annual report,
" taken by sizes, streets and localities, is as follows:
 Fifteen hundred and fifty-two feet of inch pipe in .
ni deep cut; feet of inch pipe to complete connection in main feet of inch pipe on blow off at Tan. nery brook feet of inch pipe on High street between Dwight and Lyman feet of inch pipe on
Spruce street between Lyman and Prospect; feet
of inch pipe on Lyman street between High and
Bridge feet of inch pipe on Crescent street under
Railroad bridge feet of inch pipe on Prospect
  gtreet between Elm and Spruce; feet of inch pipe
on Front street between Oliver and Fountain feet
of  inch pipe on Elm street between Essex and Prospect; feet of inch pipe on Walnut street between
Dwight and Lyman feet of  inch pipe on Chestnut street between Appleton and Prospect feet

  ENGINEER’S REPORT.
of  inch pipe on Maple street between Appleton and
Lyman feet of inch pipe on Cedar street between
Lyman and Prospect; feet inch pipe on Union street
between Lyman and Pros pect; feet of  inch pipe on
Race street between Appleton and Dwight; feet of
 inch pipe on Center street between Lyman and Ely ;
  feet of  inch pipe on East street between Lyman
and Ely feet of  inch pipe on Bridge street between Lyman and Mosher; feet of inch pipe on
Bowers street between Dwight and Mosher feet of
  inch pipe on West street between Dwight and Mosher;
  feet of inch pipe on Mosher street between
Crescent and Bridge feet of inch pipe on Prospect street between Fountain and Spruce feet of  
inch pipe on Blow off on Prospect street.
In addition to the above, we give the following, as the
amount of pipe previously laid :
Ninety-five feet of inch pipe in Deep cut;  
feet of inch pipe of mains from Deep cut to Town;
  feet of inch pipe on Appleton street between High and Front; feet of inch pipe on
Appleton street between Front and C. R. R. R.; feet
‘of inch pipe on blow offs feet of inch pipe on
Main street between Appleton and Canal; feet of
  inch pipe on Crescent street between Appleton and
Lyman feet of inch pipe on High street between
Appleton and Dwight; feet of inch pipe on Wal, nut street between Appleton and Dwight feet of  
inch pipe on Dwight street between Walnut and School; .
  feet of inch pipe on Main street between Canal and
South; feet of inch pipe on South street between 
Main and Race feet of inch pipe on Race street
between South and Appleton feet of inch pipe on
Park street between Canal and Appleton feet of  
inch pipe on Canal street. between Main and Bridge;  
feet of inch pipe on Cabot street between Park and
Canal feet of inch pipe on Front street between

ENGINEER’S REPORT.  

Appleton and Oliver; feet of inch pipe on

Dwight street between School and Pleasant feet of

  inch pipe on Blow offs feet of inch pipe on Ca: nal street between Cabot and Hamilton feet of  

inch pipe on Bridge street between Canal and Jackson ;

  feet of inch pipe on Canal street between

Bridge and Summer; feet of inch pipe on Summer street between Canal and Jackson; feet

of inch pipe on East street between Cabot and

. Sargeant; feet of inch pipe on Pleasant street

between Dwight and Hampden; feet of inch

pipe on School street between Dwight and Hampden feet of inch pipe on Taylor street from

Hampden northerly feet of inch pipe on Hampden street from Pleasant to Lumber Co.’s boarding

house feet of inch pipe on Main street, Baptist

Village feet of inch pipe on Mechanic street,
Baptist Village; feet of inch pipe on South |

  gtreet, Baptist Village feet of inch pipe on Chapin street, Baptist Village feet of inch pipe on

Blow offs.

  ENGINEERS’ REPORT.
SUMMARY OF PIPE.

SIZE. LOCATION. AMOUNT. TOTAL.
  inch In deep cut. feet feet
iS From deep cutto town} “
 Appleton Street. “
  cc “sé “cc “

ED For Blow-offs. “

: oe Main Street. “

S: Crescent Street. “

ee High Street. “

S Spruce Street. lies

ie Dwight Street. “

Se ** Walnut Street. “

a Lyman Street. “

ie Main Street. .

  South Street. “

oS Race Street. “

G.-* Park Street. “

ae Bridge Street. “

 Cabot Street. ‘“

  Front Street. “

is Dwight Street. “

i Prospect Street. “

G.* Blow-offs. “

” Tes Pleasant Street. “

Os School Street. “

a Taylor Street. aig.  
a Hampden Street “

 Walnut Street. es a
 Elm Street. *

  st Chestnut Street. “*

  Maple Street. *
de Cedar Street. “

z Union Street.  “

  Prospect Street  “

a. oF Race Street. “
a Canal Street. ‘“

. Bridge Street. “
a Summer Street. “
  East Street. “

  Center Street. “

  Bridge Street. “
rs Bowers Street. “
ss West Street. 
a Mosher Street. “
ee Main St., Baptist Vil. “

* Mechanic St. “

 South St, “

  Chapin  t., “

a Blow-offs. ie. -* *

Digitized by Google


ENGINEERS’ REPORT. |
STATEMENT OF SMALL PIPE.
L Together with the above, small pipe has been tempo] rarily laid, as follows, for the extension of mains, where |
 the supply demanded did not warrant greater present
: outlay.  inch pipe: feet on John street from
: High street easterly; feet on Suffolk street from ,
  High to Newton; feet on Newton street from Suffolk
northerly; feet on Walnut street from Appleton
southerly; feet on Lyman street from Walnut to
Pine; feet on Pine street from Walnut to Prospect;
  feet on Prospect street from Pine easterly; feet —
| on Hampden street from Pleasant westerly.
One inch pipe: feet on Jackson street from Summer to Bush Alley; feet on Bush Alley from Jack-.
son northerly; feet on Adams street from Park
easterly; feet on Sargeant street from East easterly;
  feet on Hamilton street from East easterly; feet
on Bridge street from Mosher southerly; feet on
Dwight street from Bowers easterly; feet on Ely
street from Centre to West; feet on Fountain street
from Union easterly; feet on Fountain street from
Chestnut easterly; feet on Lyman street from Chestnut easterly; feet on Dwight street from Chestnut
westerly; feet on Chestnut street from Appleton
southerly; feet on Elm street from Essex southerly; :
  feet on Lyman street from Pine westerly; feet on
Pine street from Lyman southerly; feet on Pleasant
street from Hampden northerly; feet on Chapin
street from inch pipe northerly.
Three fourths inch pipe: feet on School House
lane from Ely northerly: feet on Miller street from
Hampden southerly; feet on Pleasant street from
Hampden northerly; feet on Chapin street from
, Gates to Highland; feet on Allyn street from Chapin
 easterly; feet on Gates street from Chapin easterly;
  feet on Highland street from Chapin easterly.

  ENGINEERS’ REPORT.

One-half inch Pipe: feet on East street from Sargeant southerly.
. SUMMARY OF SMALL PIPE.
  feet of inch pipe; —
  feet of inch pipe
  feet of inch pipe;
  feet of inch pipe; ,
supplying aboat families by connections.
 STATEMENT OF GATES.

One inch Gate in Gate House, Wright’s Pond; one
  inch Gate on Blow off, Tannery Brook; one inch
Gate on Blow off, Gates’ Pasture; one inch Gate on
Ball’s Corner, Baptist Village; one inch Gate on Blow
off at Ball’s Corner; one inch Gate on Blow off at
foot of Sand Hill; one inch Gate corner of Beach and
Appleton streets; one inch Gate corner of Front and
Appleton streets; one inch Gate on Blow off, Appleton
street; one inch Gate on Appleton street, west side
 level Canal; one inch Gate on Appleton street,
east side  level Canal; One inch Gate on Main street,
Baptist Village, Ball’s Corner; One inch Gate corner
Main and South streets, Baptist Village; one inch Gate
on Blow off, South street, Baptist Village; one inch
Gate corner of South and Chapin streets; one inch
Gate corner of Walnut and Appleton streets; one  
inch Gate corner of Walnut and Dwight streets; one  
inch Gate corner of School and Dwight streets; one  
inch Gate corner School and Dwight streets; one inch
Gate corner of Pleasant and Dwight streets; one inch
Gate corner of Pleasant and Hampden streets; one  
inch Gate corner of Taylor and Hampden streets; one
  inch Gate corner of School and Hampden streets; one
  inch Gate corner of Elm and Appleton streets; one  
inch Gate corner of South Elm and Appleton streets; one
inch Gate corner of, Elm and Hampden streets; one  
inch Gate corner of Chestnut and Appleton streets; one


ENGINEERS’ REPORT. |
w inch Gate corner of Chestnut and Hampden streets;
one inch Gate on blow off, Prospect street; one inch
Gate corner of Maple and Appleton streets; one inch
Gate corner of Maple and Hampden streets; one inch ,
Gate corner of High and Appleton streets; one inch
Gate corner of High and Dwight streets; one inch |
Gate corner of High and Lyman streets; one inch |
Gate corner of Union and Lyman streets; one inch
Gate corner of Front and Appleton streets; one inch
Gate corner of Front and Lyman streets; one inch
Gate corner of North, Front and Lyman street; one  
Ok inch Gate corner of Race and Appleton streets; one  
inl inch Gate corner of Race and Appleton streets; one  
eat inch Gate corner of Race and ‘Sargeant streets; one  
Blut inch Gate, Main street, South side  level canal; one
f inch Gate, Main street, North side  level canal; one  
| ant inch Gate corner Main and Appleton streets, north side;
AD one inch Gate corner Main and Appleton streets, south
te side; one inch Gate corner of Main and Sargeant streets;
side one inch Gate corner of Park and Appleton streets;
rel one inch Gate corner of Park and Sargeant streets;
et one inch Gate corner of Park and Canal street; one  
ee inch Gate on blow off; one inch Gate corner of Cabot
bate and Park streets; one inch Gate corner of Cabot and
ut Kast streets; one inch Gate corner of Sargeant and
 Park streets; one inch Gate corner of Bridge and Ca- nal streets; one inch Gate corner of Summer and Canal
- streets; one inch Gate on branch for Wiggin Flagg;
- one inch Gate corner Mosher and Crescent streets; two
m inch Gates corner of Lyman and Crescent streets; one
:)  inch Gate on private pipe, Whitmg and Hampden
a Mills; one inch Gate on private pipe, Dwight street;
m one inch Gate on corner Bridge and Lyman streets;
: one inch Gate on private branch, Hadley Company.
one! HYDRANTS.
a In addition to hydrants set by the First Fire Dis‘  trict, during the past summer and fall, upon branches

  ENGINEERS’ REPORT.

provided for them by the water works and located by
the Chief Engineer of the fire department, it was considered necessary to buy and place in position three others,
outside the limits of the district, located as follows:

One on Main street, Baptist Village, opposite J. Murray’s; one on corner of Pleasant and Hampden streets,

) Ewingville; one on corner of Dwight and School streets,
Ewingville.
WATER TAKERS.
' Number of families using water,  
“ stores and offices,  
“e manufactories and public buildings,  
“ horses,  
And for great variety of other uses.
, PRIVATE PIPE FOR FIRE PURPOSES.

, Most of the manufacturing corporations of this city, in
order to afford themselves better protection against fire
than the general arrangements of the fire district can

, give, have laid suitable sized pipes from the street mains
through their premises and connected them with stand
pipes and private hydrants. |

STOCK ON HAND.

There is now on hand small quantity of pipe,
branches, sleeves, etc., which should be enlarged to a
complete stock, comprising duplicate of every special
laid, for the immediate repair of leaks from cracked or
defective pipe.

' STONE WORK.

The Gate House foundations, which are built of cut
stone from the East mountain quarry, according to the
plans of gentleman of your Board, are well laid, while
its internal arrangements are considered as worthy
pattern by our Westfield neighbors. These foundations
contain and yards of cut stone masonry, and  
yards of grouted rubble.

—
, ENGINEERS’ REPORT. |
te fi The dam at the outlet of the ponds has also been
rons completed this season. The top of which, with the exother ception of narrow outlet or overflow, has been carried
 seven feet above the present level of the ponds, in order |
Ve that they may be more easily raised, when the wants of
ste the city shall demand. The dam completed contains
sth “yards of stone masonry. :
HEAD AND PRESSURE. :
es Thinking that it may be of interest to you to see the “b head and pressure of the water, at different localities
; noted down, we give the following table, as embracing
: the prominent points of the city. ,
LOCALITIES. AV. HEAD. SQUARE INCH.
: a
Baptist Village. feet pounds
city Cor. Beach and Cabot Streets.  i
- ““ Hampden and Pleasant Sts.  “
ust Dt School and Dwight Streets. 
viet “Pine and Dwight Streets. “e ,
‘“ Elm and Dwight Streets. oo
{ moult High and Dwight Streets. me 
ai Front and Dwight Streets. sta Crescent and Dwight Streets. 
“ Bowers and Dwight Streets. ‘s
“ Main and Cabot Streets.  .“
“ Main and South Streets.  —s
, ‘* Canal and Jackson Streets.  “
ip Canal and Cabot Streets.  —is“S
pit —Kew—"$—es“s—sawTSsnsSsSsSsSsSsSsSsSS AT——oo
Lt FURTHER OPERATIONS.
ie  Work at Baptist Village :
— Taken as whole, the Holyoke Water Works are
a success and the imperative needs of the place, which
have prompted her citizens to make this expenditure,
have been fully met. There is one locality, howat ever, namely, that of Baptist Village, to which we
to would for moment call your attention. While the ar- |
[He rangements for the supply of this village are ample for
ot all the purposes of family use, they are not what they
qu? should be for the most perfect protection of this proper-  
al ty against fire, or what they might be made by complet@

  ENGINEERS’ REPORT.
ing the plans as they were originally laid out. The 
street main, as it is now connected, is not capable of receiving the head and pressure which the situation of the
, village really warrants, and it will be necessary before
this can be felt, to re-inforce the main, by completing the
circulation. Proper branches for this purpose have been
left at the street intersection near Dr. Long’s, and on the
main pipe in Hitchcock’s Lane, and we believe that the
situation requires the making of this connection.
RAISING OF THE PONDS. ,
We are fully convinced that the overflow of the new
dam, as designated and established by your former engineer, is few inches below the natural level of the
ponds, decreasing théir capacity as resevoirs, of course,
proportionally, and it would therefore be prudent to :
raise them, at least foot, as soon as possible, which
 can be done by laying, but perch of masonry within
the opening left for the purpose, with stone already cut
and upon the ground.
- ACCOUNT OF STOCK.
Below we give detailed account of stock on hand,
January }
Two inch pipe, sixteen inch pipe, twelve inch
pipe, eight inch pipe, six, inch pipe, sixteen
inch, eight and four inch branch, sixteen inch double
four inch branch, sixteen inch single four inch branch,
  sixteen inch double eight inch branch, sixteen inch
single eight inch branch, ten inch double eight inch
branch, eight inch single six inch branch, eight inch
 single eight inch branch, eight inch single four inch
branch, eight inch double four inch branch, four
inch double four inch branch, four inch single four
inch branch, ten inch‘one-eighth turn, eight inch one
eighth turn, eight inch one-fourth turn, six inch
one-fourth turns, twelve inch short straight pipe,  
eighth inch short straight pipe, six inch short straight
e

ma
| ENGINEERS’ REPORT.  
tk pipe, four inch short straight pipe, six inch to
e Of four inch reducer, six inch plugs, four inch plugs,  
n ot sixteen inch sleeves, twelve inch sleeves, eight inch
* bel sleeve, good shovels, poor shovels, picks,  :
ting sledges, iron bars, axes, lanterns, mon. wrenches,
ve be ratchet, taps, one inch, one inch, one inch,
| on one inch, drills, one inch, one inch, one :
iat th inch, one inch, rammers, chisels, oil cans,  
grab, setts, hammers, wooden pails, ladle,  
branding iron, nine pairs tongs, keys for opening
gates, gasket irons, dog chisels, pounds packing,
he wer furnace and kettle, wooden plugs, gate covers,
mere eleven gate boxes, rope and derrick fixtures, steam drill
of ib with drills and rubber hose, horse, wagon, harness,
cous derrick, boiler and pumps, air valves, set small
lent blocks, lot lumber at cut, hundred lbs. lead, anvil, —
“hi? portable forge, lot of hand drills.
witht Estimated value of the above three thousand eight
are hundred and ninety-four dollars ,
DAVIS ELLSWORTH,
Engineers.
han. .
e in! |
site |
dou’
vrai
nin! ,
yt ine |
na
ri
) fe |
e fon
ch ott )
‘ int!
ie
male

\
 
/

, REPORT)
own pall Building {ommite,
JANUARY .

at .
: ®
, ,
e
|
a
e

Committees’ Report. )
To the City Council of Holyoke. .
The Committee have made the following purchases,
agreements, contracts, etc. :-—
, LAND.
Purchase of the original lot or site, additional land in the rear,  
PLANS.

Architects, Hathorn, Atwood, Hunt, Potter, and Kilburn, were invited to present designs and plans for the
building the Committee agreeing to pay each of them,
excepting the one whose design should be accepted, the

 gum of Mr. Hunt declining the invitation, Mr.
Parker was added in his stead but his design was not
received in time for the examinations of the plans, and
consequently his claim of the  was forfeited, reducing the number of competing architects, to four viz.,
Hathorn, Atwood, Potter, and Kilburn.. Atwood’s design was accepted and adopted. Hathorn, Potter, and
Kilburn, were paid  each. An aggreement was then
- made with Chas. B. Atwood to furnish plans, drawings,
and specifications, for the building, and to superintend
the erection and finishing of the same for per cent on
$ amounting to .
EXCAVATION.
Excavation for the sub-basement, or cellar, was let to

  COMMITTEES’ REPORT.
J. W. Davis at cts. per cubic yard, amounting to :

John McCoy Son, and W. F. Barrett were. employ- .
ed by the day, on trenches for the foundations and
drains, and on filling, for which, McCoy Son received,
$ and W. F. Barrett received, .

FOUNDATIONS.

Foundations for the building, division walls, etc.,
were letto John Delaney Son. Price for foundation
walls,  per perch, price for flagging cts. per
‘square foot, amounting in all to .

BASEMENT.

A contract was made with Wm. N. Flynt Co., of
Monson, to furnish the exterior granite for the basement, including everything below the first floor watertable viz., area curbings, steps, platforms, bases to
porches, etc., for |

Notre. At the time the above contract was made, it
had not been decided that the exterior of the entire building should be of granite.

BUILDING.

A contract was made with Richard Ponsonby of New
Haven, Conn., to erect and complete the Town Hall
Building. This contract takes the work as standing at
the date of contract, and comprises the following work ;
V Z.:

To pay the cost of transporting the basement granite
work (of contract with Flynt Co.) from the railroad to
the site of building; to set the same complete, and to
furnish the backing stone, mortar and labor, necessary.
to erect. the same on the foundations, as left in his hands
by the Committee. To do all the interior brickwork of
whole building, starting on the footing stones as provided by the Committee; to do all mason work, and provide and set all rough and cut stone necessary to comCOMMITTEES’ REPORT. |
plete the building, as called for by plans and specifica) tions; to do all carpentry work, rough, and finished,

painting, plumbing, and furnish glass and hardware; to
do all slating, plastering, stucco work, copper gutters,
conductors, etc. In fine to complete the building proper, as per the plans and specifications for the sum of
$ .

Unfortunately, Ponsonby allowed the winter of  
and  to pass without contracting for the granite work
for the building, until late in the spring, when there was
an active demand for such work, and the contract price
for the building, making it necessary that he should get
the stone at the lowest possible price, contract was |

finally closed with Messrs. Flynt Co. at such rates, as ;

afforded them no inducements to reject other work
which was soon after offered them, or to make any outlay for apparatus to enable them to do more work, and :
consequently precedence was given to work, for which
higher prices were paid, and work for the Holyoke
Town Hall building was done as it happened to suit the
convenience of the contractors for the stone. In this
manner the work was dragged along until late in July,
 when Ponsonby, and the Committee finding themselves powerless to move the contractors to furnish the
stone in sufficient quantity to complete the walls of the
building in season to get the roof on before winter the
Committee made special contract with Flynt Co.,
by which they were to get out and deliver at Holyoke
all the stone cut and rough necessary to complete the
walls ready for the roof, by Nov.  st, in consideration
of the sum of two thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, ($ to be paid to them by the Town of Holyoke as extra compensation.

Flynt Co. faithfully performed their contract, but
the Committee were prevented from realizing the full
benefits of the arrangements, by the extremely cold
weather for the season, during the early part of November.

  COMMITTEES’ REPORT.

In the spring of the Committee were authorized
and instructed by vote of the Town, to employ suitable person upon the works, as overseer, and an appropriation was made for that purpose; and in accordance
with that vote, Mr. David Ireland was employed by the
Committee through their architect, as overseer, at an expense of .

In addition to the foregoing, the following sums have
been paid by the Committee viz.,

To C. R. R. R. freight on granite for basement, 

T. W. Mann, services as engineer, etc.,  

McClallan Lynch, brick work  

} L. P. Bosworth, labor on drains,  
Holyoke Machine Co., pipe, |

J. A. Waldo, drain pipe,  

S. Snell, ew  

| Geo. P. Ellison, teaming,  

Wiggin Flagg, lumber,  

A. Willard,  

E. Kingsley,  

Snow Flanders,  

Jonas Kendall,  

W. J. Sumner, labor on drains, grading, etc.,  
$ 

COMMITTEES’ REPORT.  

This amount includes all the expenditures and obligations for unfinished contracts incurred by the Committee, on which the following amounts have been paid at
this date; viz.,

Land, in full, 
Architects,  
Excavations, filling, drains, etc., in full,  

, Foundation walls and flagging, in full,  
Contract for basement granite,  
Contract for building,  
Special contract with Flynt Co., in full,  
Overseer, 
Sundries as per foregoing schedule,  
$ 

Assuming that the amount of  paid on
Ponsonby’s contract is for only per cent. of the work
performed, the total work would amount to ,
leaving  to complete his contract. But the total work performed includes all the cut stone to complete
the gables, and the tower toa point level with the ridge
of the main roof, and large portion of the rough stone
for the same. Also the polished granite pillars for the
front porch and front windows in the tower, and timber
for the smaller roofs.

To complete Ponsonby’s contract there remains to be
done the following viz., completion of gables and tower;
porch and the setting of steps, and area curbings; the
finish of rough framing of roof; part of the furring,
the plastering, inside finish, painting, glass, hardware,
stucco cornices, wainscoting, tyling, marble, stairs, iron
stairs, cell and area gratings, iron and brickwork of
cells, setting boilers, plumbing, slating, gutters and conductors, as per plan and specifications.

 After the completion of this contract, there remains the

  COMMITTEES’ REPORT.
furnishing and decoration of the hall and building,
which we estimate as follows :
Stained glass for large hall, including the grand
memorial window in the memorial tower, 
Extra Hardware,  
Gas piping and mantles,  
Heating and ventilation,  
Decorations of large hall,  
To which add present expenditures, and
obligations on unfinished contracts,  
| 
To the faithful performance of this contract, Richard
, Ponsonby gave bonds to the amount of twenty thousand
dollars. The bondsmen are Amaziah Mayo, Eugene
McCarty, Rourke Bros. and Daniel McCauley, all of
Springfield.
In the spring of  the Committee finding that Pon- ]
: sonby had not contracted for the granite for the building above the basement, and that but little progress was
being made with the work, notified the bondsmen
through Mr. Mayo, of the facts, and he, Mayo, appeared
before the Committee, examined the contract, acknowledged that it was correctly executed, and that the bondsmen were responsible to the amount of the bonds, for
its faithful performance. Mr. Mayo then requested the 
Committee to release Ponsonby from the contract, and
on their refusal, requested that an arrangement should
. be made by which all money paid by the town on account of the contract, should be drawn by member
of the committee on Ponsonby’s order; and by his order paid out for labor, and material used on the building, under the contract.

aE
} COMMITTEES’ REPORT.  
ide Mr. Ponsonby consenting, such an arrangement was
made and has been in force up to the present time the
bondsmen agreeing, by written agreement, properly
jn signed and executed, that the arrangement should not in |
Sn any way be construed to annul, vitiate, or impair the
  force of the contract, nor to release the bondsmen from
  their obligations.
  iM This is the extent to which the work on the building
has been done by the day, as has been charged, and the
  ea Committee further say, and believe, that no act of theirs
— can be construed to annul, or in the least degree impair
 aN the validity of ‘the contract, nor release the bondsmen
a from their obligations. :
Rick Mr. Ponsonby has labored under difficulties and disOns advantages, which would not have been, had he conLut tracted for the stone and other work immediately after
vil closing his contract with the Committee; but it should
be said to his credit, that the work so far done, has been
wat Pt well done, and will compare favorably with work of like
v bul: character in other places, and indeed good judges have
pes Fs pronounced the workmanship superior to that in costly
uss structure of the same material, now about completed in
pyrite the neighboring city of Springfield. |
CKLD: Appropriations for Town Hall building have been
spool made as follows :
nds April for land for hall, 
fe May foundations,  
ls March Town Hall,  
se additional land, “  ‘* for overseer,  
Ma ————
" 
sy:

  COMMITTEES’ REPORT. |
There was an appropriation April  ’' of 
for ‘‘Works of Art,’’ to be placed in the new Town Hall,
of which the memorial window in the tower should be
considered part and charged to that appropriation.
WM. GROVER,
W. B.C. PEARSONS, Committee.
, A. L. SHUMWAY, |
Holyoke, Jan. |
|

| '
| Digitized by Google

Digitized by Google

Bee
RULES AND -ORDERS |
OF THE
BOARD of ALDERMEN.

SEoTIon  The order of business shall be as follows —

ist. The Mayor shall call the Board to order, and if

| quorum be present, shall cause the roll to be called,
and the names of the absentees recorded.

 d. The journal of the previous meeting shall be
read. .

 d. Petitions, Remonstrances, Memorials and Reports shall next be called for and be disposed of, by reference or otherwise.

 th. Such nominations, appointments, and elections
as may be in order shall be considered and disposed of.

 th. The orders of the day shall be taken up; meaning by the orders of the day, the business remaining
unfinished at the previous meeting, and such communications as may have been subsequently sent up from the
Common Council.

 th. New business may be introduced by any member of the Board.

Sro.  Every ordinance shall pass through the following stages before it shall be considered as having received the final action of this Board, viz: first reading,
second reading, passage to be enrolled, passage to be or  RULES AND ORDERS.

dained; and every Joint Resolution shall have two several readings, before the question shall be taken on its
final passage.

Sexo.  resolve, an order for appropriating money,

or an Ordinance, may be rejected at either stage in its
progress, but may not pass through all its stages in one
day. |

Src.  Standing Committees shall be appointed on
Police, on Licenses, on Enrollment, on Ordinances and

, on Elections and Returns; and such Committees shall
consist of three Aldermen.

Src.  No member shall be interrupted while speaking, but by call to order, or for correction of mistake, nor shall there be any conversation among the
members, while paper is being read, or question
stated from the chair.  

Seo.  None of the foregoing rules and orders
shall be suspended, amended or repealed at any meeting, unless two-thirds of the members present consent
thereto.

SEc. All Committees shall be appointed and announced by the Mayor, unless the Board shall determine otherwise.

Sec.  No member shall speak more than twice to
the same question without leave of the Board; nor more
than once till all other members choosing to speak,
shall have spoken.

Src.  At all meetings of the Board, four Aldermen
shall constitute quorum for the transaction of business.

RULES AND ORDERS
OF THE ,
COMMON COUNCLL. —

Srotion  The President shall take the Chair at
the hour appointed for the meeting, call the members to —
order, and shall forthwith cause the roll to be called and
the names of the absentees recorded. If quorum be
present he shall then call for the reading of the minutes
of the preding meeting and prod to business.

SEc.  He shall preserve order and decorum, may
speak to points of order, in preference to other mem. bers, and shall decide all such questions, subject to an
appeal to the Council by any two members, and no
other business shall be in order until the question on the
appeal shall have been decided, He shall appoint all
Standing Committees and all other Committees not ree quired tobe selected by ballot, or which the Council
shall not vote so to elect:

Src.  He shall arise to address the Board, to state
facts, or to put question, but may read sitting.

Sro.  When question is under debate, the President shall receive no motion, but to adjourn, to lay on .
the table, for the previous question, to postpone to a

| certain day, to commit, to amend, or to postpone indefinitely, which several motions shall have precedence in
the order in which they are arranged. He shall declare

  RULES AND ORDERS.

all votes, but if vote be doubted, he shall require the
members, without debate, voting in the affirmative and
in the negative, successively to rise and stand until they
are counted, and shall then announce the result.

SEo.  He may call any member to the Chair for a
period of time not extending beyond an adjournment;
and when out of the chair the President may participate in any debate; but shall not resume the Chair while
the same question is pending; and on going into Committee of the Whole he shall appoint Chairman.

SxEo.  Questions shall be propounded in the order
in which they are moved, unless the subsequent motion

| be previous in its nature; except that in naming sums
and fixing times, the largest sum and the longest time
shall be put first.

Sro.  After motion is stated by the President,
it shall be disposed of by vote of the Board, unless
withdrawn by the mover before an amendmett or decision. Sto.  motion to adjourn shall always be in order; that, and the motion to lay on the table, shall be
decided without debate.

Sro.  The previous questions shall be in this form :
‘‘Shall the main question be now put?’ It shall only’ be admitted when demanded by majority of the members present; and until itis decided, shall preclude all
amendments and debate of the main question; and after
the adoption of the previous question, the sense of the
Board shall forthwith be taken upon amendments re- ;
ported by Commitee, upon all pending amendments,
and then upon the main question.

Src.  On all questions and motions whatsoever,
the President shall take the sense of the Board by yeas

and nays, provided one-fifth of the members present
shall so require. ,

SEo.  When two or more members arise at the
same time, the President shall name the member who is
to speak first.

RULES AND ORDERS.  

Sec.  No member shall be mentioned, in the debate, by his name, but may be described by the place he
occupies or such other designation as may be intelligible and respectful. :

RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
SEc.  In the absence of the President the oldest
, member present shall call the Council to order, and preside until President pro tempore shall be chosen by
ballot; and if an election is not effected on the first trial,
on second ballot plurality of votes shall elect.
When any member is about to speak in the Council, he
shall rise in his place and respectfully address the presiding officer, confining himself to the question under
debate, and avoid personality.

Sec.  Nomember speaking shall be interrupted
by another, but by call to order, or to correct mistake; and any member may call any transgressor of the
rules of the Council to order, who shall thereupon immediately sit down, unless permitted to explain, and the
Council if appealed to, shall decide the case. If the
decision be in favor of the member called to order, he
shall be at liberty to prod; if otherwise, he shall not
prod.

Sec.  No member shall speak more than twice to
the same question, or more than ten minutes at each
time, without obtaining leave of the Council; and all
questions relating to priority of business shall be taken
without debate.

SEo.  While the President or any other member
is speaking, no one shall stand up or pass unnecessarily

. before the person speaking.

Sxo.  Every motion shall be reduced to writing, if
the President or any member requires it.

Src.  motion for the reconsideration of vote,
shall be in order for immediate consideration, if made
by member voting with the majority; or if notice be
given by any member at the meeting at which the vote

  RULES AND ORDERS.
passed, it shall be in order at the next meeting and not
afterwards, and vote deciding motion to reconsider,
shall not be reconsidered.

SEO.  Every member who shall be in the council

‘ when question is put, shall give his vote, unless the
council for special reasons excuse him, or unless his private interests are involved therein.

SEO.  No motion or proposition on subject different from that under consideration shall be admitted
under color of an amendment.

SEC.  All questions shall be divided, when the
sense will admit of it, if called for by any member of

the Board.

SEec.  No rule or standing order of the Board

shall be suspended unless three-fourths of the members
present consent thereto nor shall any rule or order be
repealed, or amended, unless notice of the proposed repeal or amendment was given at the next preceding,
meeting, nor unless majority of the whole Board concur therein.

SEo.  At each regular meeting of the Council, the
order of business shall be as follows —

Ist. Reading records of the preceding meeting.

 d. Presentations of Petitions, Remonstrances, and

Memorials.

 d. Papers from the Board of Mayor and Aldermen.

 th. Unfinished Business of preceding meetings.

 th. Communications and Reports from City Officers,

and Board of Commissioners.

 th. Motions, Orders, and Resolutions.

 th. Reports of Committees.

Which order shall be adhered to, as rule of the
Council.

Sxco.  All papers addressed to the Board shall be
presented by the President, or Clerk, or such other person as the President may request, and. shall be taken
up in the order in which they were presented, unless
when the Board shall otherwise direct.

RULES AND ORDERS.  

Src.  No Committee shall sit during the sitting
of the Board without special leave, except the Committee on Enrollment.

SEc.  The rules of proding in the Board shall
be observed in the Committee of the Whole, so far as
may be applicable, except the rules limiting the time of
speaking. ,

Src.  When Committee is nominated by the
Chair, the first person named shall be the Chairman.
In elections of Committees by ballot, when the Chairman is not specially chosen, the person having the high est number of votes shall act as Chairman, and in case
of an equality of votes between two or more members
of committee, the members thereof shall choose a
chairman.

Seo.  Every Ordinance shall pass through the following stages before it shall be considered as having received the final action of this Board, viz: First Reading; Second Reading; Passage to be Enrolled; Passage
to be Ordained; but no Ordinance shall have more than
one reading on the same day.

Sro.  All Orders and Resolutions imposing penalties or authorizing the expenditure or payment of
money, shall have two several readings before they
shall be finally passed by this Board; but they shall not
have more than one reading on the same day, except
orders to authorize the printing of city documents.

SEc.  The seats of the Common Council shall be

numbered and determined by lot, and no member shall
change his seat but by permission of the President.
— Sxo.  All Committees of the Council shall consist
of three members, unless different number shall be
specially ordered, and no report shall be received from
any committee unless agreed to in committee actually
assembled; and all reports shall be in writing.

Src.  It shall be the duty of every committee of
the Council to whom any subject may be specially referred, to report thereon, within two weeks, or at the
next Regular Meeting, or ask further time.

  RULES AND ORDERS. 

SEo.  Members of the Council may attend meetings: of any of its committees, but shall not vote thereat.

Sro.  Standing committees shall be appointed on
Ordinances, on Enrollment, and on Elections and Returns.

SEO.  All motions and reports may be committed
or re-committed, at the pleasure of the Council, and
when motion is made to refer the subject, and differ-.
ent committees are proposed, the questions shall be
taken in the following order :

A Standing Committee of the Council.

A Select Committee of the Council. ,
A Joint Standing Committee.

A Joint Special Committee.

Src.  The reading of paper when called for and
objected to, shall be determined by vote of the Council.

Src.  No member shall be obliged to serve on
more than three committees at the same time, nor be

' Chairman of more than one; nor be on any committee
having in charge matter touching his individual interest.
DUTIES OF CLERK, ETC.

Sec.  The Clerk shall keep brief minutes of the
votes and prodings of the Council, entering thereon
all accepted resolutions; shall notice reports and memorials, and other papers submitted to the Board, only by
their titles, or brief description of their purport.
When the yeas and nays are taken, the Clerk shall call
the names of all the members, except the President, in:
alphabetical order.

SEo.  The Clerk of the Common Council shall keep
the record of committees, who may require that service;
and on the appointment of every standing committee, a
book for record shall be provided by its Chairman or by

RULES AND ORDERS.  
said Clerk; and the Clerk shall have the custody of all
the minutes by him kept, and the records of the several
committees shall be open to the inspection of the members of the City Council.

Sxo.  The Clerk shall notify in writing the chairman of all committees of the Council, of the appointment of such committees.

JOINT RULES AND ORDERS
OF THE

SECTION.  At the commencement of the Municipal
year, the following Joint Standing Committees shall be
chosen or appointed by their respective boards, to wit :

Ist. COMMITTEE ON FINANCE.— To consist of the

Mayor, one Alderman, the President of the Common
Council, and two members of the same.

 d. CoMMITTEE on Accounts.— To consist of two

Aldermen and three members of the Common Council.

 d. COMMITTEE ON HIGHWAYS, SIDEWALKS AND
BripeEs.— To consist of the Mayor, three Aldermen,
and four members of the Common Council.

 th. COMMITTEE ON CITY PROPERTY.— To consist
of two Aldermen and three members of the Common
Council.

 th. CoMMITTEE ON FIRE DEPARTMENT.— To consist of two Aldermen, and. three members of the Com mon Council.

 th. COMMITTEE ON FUEL AND STREET LIGHTS. —
To consist of two Aldermen and three members of the
Common Council.

 th. COMMITTEE ON EpucaTIon.— To consist of
two Aldermen and three members of the Common
Council.

JOINT RULES AND ORDERS. ,
 th. ComMITTEE on CLaims.—To consist of two Aldermen and three members of the Common Council.

 th. CoMMITTEE ON CITY ENGINEERING.— To con- |
sist of two Aldermen and three members of the Common Council.

 th. COMMITTEE ON PRINTING.—To consist of one |
Alderman and two members of the Common Council.

 ith. CoMMITTEE ON THE PAUPER DEPARTMENT. —

To consist of two Aldermen and three members of the
Common Council.

 th. COMMITTEE ON SEWERS AND Dratins.— To
consist of two Aldermen and three members of the Common Council.

Src.  In all Joint Committees the number of members from the Common Council shall be one, at least,
greater than the number from the Board of Aldermen.

SEc.  The Mayor shall be ex-officio Chairman of |
any Joint Committee of which he is member; and of
other Joint Committees, the first named member of the
Board of Aldermen, and in case of his resignation or
absence, or neglect for the space of ten days to call a
meeting of the Committee, the next named member of
the same Board, and afterwards the member of the Common Council first in order shall call the meetings of the
Committee and act as Chairman. And whenever the
Chairman of any such Committee shall fail to call meeting of its members for the space of ten days from the time
any subject has been referred to it, after having been requested so to do, any two of the members of any such
Joint Committee shall have power to call meetings
thereof. .

Sro.  All By-Laws passed by the City Council
shall be termed ‘‘ Ordinances,’’ and the enacting style
shall be, ‘‘Be it ordained by the City Council of the
City of Holyoke, as follows: ”’

SrEo.  In all votes in which either or both branches

  JOINT RULES AND ORDERS.

of the City Council express anything by way of command, the form of expression shall be, ‘‘ Ordered,’’
(except only in case of Ordinances), and whenever either
branch or both branches express opinions, principles,
facts or purposes, the form of expression shall be, ‘‘Resolved.”’

SEc.  When either Board shall not concur with
the other in any Ordinance, order or resolution, sent
from such other, notice of such non-concurrence shall
forthwith be given and the paper returned.

Src.  In every case of disagreement on any matter requiring the joint action of the two Boards, if either
Board shall request conference, and appoint Committee for that purpose, the other Board shall appoint a
Committee to confer with them, and said Committee
shall meet within ten days, ata time appointed by the |
Chairman of the Committee on the part of the Board,
requesting the conference, and report to their respective
branches, and any paper adopted in one Board and no
action reported thereon by the other within six weeks,
shall be held to bea case of disagreement within the
meaning of this section.

Src.  Each Board shall transmit to the other all
papers on which any Ordinance, joint order or resolve,
shall be founded, and all papers on their passage between the two Boards, shall be under the signature of
their respective clerks or presiding officers.

SEo.  Whenever messages between the two Boards
are transmitted by the Messenger, they shall be in writing. |

Src.  Either Board may propose to the other, for
its concurrence, time to which both shall adjourn,
which subject shall have precedence over other business;
and when the time has been fixed, either Board may
adjourn unless it is otherwise requested, and the reasons
therefore are given by the Board making the request.

' Src.  The reports of all Committees signed by a

JOINT RULES AND ORDERS. |
majority of the members thereof, may be made to either
Board.

SEo.  No committee shall act by separate con- ,
sultation, and no reports, except minority reports, shall
be received unless they shall have been agreed to in
Committee actually assembled. 

Src.  It shall be the duty of every Joint Committee to whom any subject shall be specially referred
unless otherwise ordered, to report thereon within two
weeks, or at the next regular meeting, or ask for further
time.

Src.  No chairman of any Committee shall audit
or approve any bill or account against the City, for any
supplies or service, which shall not have been ordered

 or authorized by the Committee. And no Committee
shall enter into any contract with, or purchase, or authorize the purchase of any article of any of its members.

SEo.  All reports and other papers submitted to
the City Council, shall be written in fair hand, properly endorsed, and the Clerks of the Boards respectively
shall make copies of any papers to be reported by Committees at the request of the respective Chairman thereof.

Sko.  No business shall be transacted by the
City Council in convention, except such as shall have
been previously agreed on, unless by unanimous consent.

SEc.  Joint Standing Committees shall cause records to be kept of their prodings, in books provided
by the City for that purpose.

Seco.  Every joint resolution shall have as many
readings in each Board, as the rules of that Board require, after which the question shall be on passing the
same, and when the same shall have been passed, it
shall be sent to the other Board for concurrence, and
when such resolution shall have so passed in each board,

  JOINT RULES AND ORDERS.

the same shall be enrolled by the Clerk of the Common
Council, and examined by Committee of that Board :
and on being found by said Committee to be correctly
enrolled, without further reading or question shall be
signed by the President of the Common Council and
sent to the other Board, where like examination shall

be made by Committee of that Board, and if found
correctly enrolled, the same shall be presented to the
Mayor for his approval and signature.

Src.  All ordinances before being read second
time, shall be referred to the Committee on Ordinances,
and after being reported upon by said Committee shall
be again read, after which several readings, the question
shall be on passing the same to be enrolled.

SEc.  Every Ordinance shall have as many readings in each Board as the rules of that Board require,
after which the question shall be on passing the same to
be enrolled, and when the same shall have passed to be
enrolled, it shall be sent to the other Board for concurrence and when such Ordinance shall have so passed
to be enrolled in each Board, the same shall be enrolled
by the Clerk of the Common Council and examined by
a Committee of that Board, and on being found by said
Committee to be correctly enrolled, the same shall be
reported to the Council, when the question shall be on

passing the same to be ordained, and when said Ordinance shall have so passed to be ordained, it shall be
signed by the President of the Common Council, and
sent to the other Board, where like examination shall
be made by Committee of that Board, and if found
correctly enrolled, the same shall be reported to the
Board, and the question shall be on passing the same
to be ordained, and when the same shall have passed to
be ordained, it shall be presented to the Mayor for his
approval and signature.

Src.  After the annual appropriations have been
made, no subsequent expenditure shall be authorized

JOINT RULES AND ORDERS.  
for any object unless provision for the same shall be
made by special transfer from some of the annual appropriations, or by expressly creating therefor city
debt but no such debt shall be created unless the order |
authorizing the same, pass by the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the whole number of each branch of the
City Council, voting by yeas and nays. |
SEO.  The City Clerk shall be Clerk of the City
Council in convention.

|
Digitized by Google

ORDINANCES
City of Holyoke.

‘
. e
f
.

D
q
:
 


CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO WARRANTS FOR CITY ,
, MEETINGS.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Hol- yoke, as follows: —

SEoTION.  The forms of Warrants for calling meetings of the citizens of the several Wards, shall be as 
follows:

CITY OF HOLYOKE. ,
To the Chief of Police or any Constable of the City of
- Holyoke, GREETING :

In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
you are hereby required forthwith to warn the citizens
of Ward No. qualified to vote as the law directs, to
assemble, oe

Hereof fail not and have you there this warrant with |
your doings theron.

Witness, Mayor of our said
spat, City of Holyoke, on this day of
"in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight
hundred and ,
By order of the Mayor and Aldermen,
: City Clerk.

SEo.  All warrants for calling meetings of the
citizens of the several Wards, shall be issued, ten days
at least before the time of holding the meeting, shall be ,

  ORDINANCES.
signed by the City Clerk, and in case of his absence or
inability, by the Mayor, and shall be served by the Chief
of Police, or any Constable of the City of Holyoke, by
posting an attested copy thereof, in at least two public
places in each Ward, and the officer to whom said warrant shall be delivered for service, shall seasonably return the same with his doings theron, to the Wardens
of the several Wards, on or before the time of the meeting of the citizens of said Ward.

SEc.  The form of Warrants for calling general
meetings of the citizens qualified to vote, shall be as follows, to wit: ,

OITY OF HOLYOKE.

To the Chief of Police, or any Constable of the City of
Holyoke,  GREETING:
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,

you are required forthwith to warn the citizens of Holyoke, qualified to vote as the law directs, to assemble in
general meeting at the :

Hereof fail not and have you there this Warrant with
your doings thereon.

Witness, Mayor of our said City

SEAL of Holyoke, this day of in

 the year of our Lord, one thousand eight
hundred and

By order of the Mayor and Aldermen,

| City Clerk. *

Src.  All Warrants which shall be issued by the
Mayor and Aldermen for calling meetings of the inhabitants of the City of Holyoke, shall be signed and
served in the same manner as is provided for calling
meetings of the citizens of the several Wards, and shall
be returned to the City Clerk on or before the time therein specified for the meetings of the citizens. ,

Src.  The officer who shall serve said Warrant
shall also publish notice in one or more newspapers in
this, the said city of Holyoke, seven days at least, before the time of holding said meetings, stating therein
the time, place and general objects, of said meetings,

ORDINANCES.  
said notice to be signed by order of the Mayor and Aldermen.

Src.  The Mayor and Aldermen shall fix the time
when the polls shall be opened, and when the same
shall be closed, in the election of all officers, and insert
the same in any Warrant and notification to the inhabitants, of such election.

Seo.  This Ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.

In Common Council, Jan. .

Passed to be ordained.

| C. H. Hkywoop, President.
, In Board of Aldermen, Jan. Passed to be ordained.

W. B.C. PEARsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE EXPENDITURES OF THE CITY.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Hol- ’
yoke, as follows |

SECTION  There shall be appointed annually by
the City Council, in the month of January, joint committee on finance which shall consist of the Mayor, one
Alderman, the President of the Common Council and
two members thereof.

Also, joint committee on accounts consisting of two
Aldermen and three members of the Common Council.
The members of said committee shall be appointed by
that branch of the City Council to which they respectively belong, according to the rules and orders thereof.

Src.  The joint standing committee on accounts
shall meet once in each month, and as much oftener as
may be necessary. It shall be their duty carefully to examine all accounts, claims and demands against the city,
and certify the same to be correct, when found to be so,
and no account, claim or demand shall be paid by the
city treasurer, unless its accuracy shall first have been
certified by said committee, except as hereinafter provided.

Src.  No account or claim against the city shall be
received or acted upon by the committee on accounts,
unless such account or claim shall be accompanied by a

ORDINANCES.  
certificate of the Mayor, or of some officer, committee or
agent, authorized on behalf of the city to make the contract or cause the expenditure, that the same is correct.

Src.  No money shall be drawn out of the city
treasury, except as hereinafter provided, without the

| written order of the mayor addressed to the treasurer
and countersigned by the city auditor. The mayor, and *
in case of his absence or inability, the chairman of the
committee on accounts, is hereby authorized to draw
orders on the treasurer for the payment of all accounts
and claims allowed and certified by the committee on
accounts, as provided in the second section but he
shall not draw any order for services rendered or materi. als furnished for any department beyond the sum appropriated by the citly council for the expenses of that
department. Provided, however, that in any case where
it is necessary for money to be paid in advance on contracts made for work begun, but not completed, the
mayor upon being satisfied of such necessity, may draw .
an order on the city treasurer for the amount thus necessary to be advanced, for any sum not exding five
hundred dollars at any one time, in which case the auditor shall report the same and the amount thereof to
the committee on accounts at their next meeting and
shall charge the same under the appropriate head of ex- 
penditure.

SEo.  The auditor shall receive all accounts and
claims from persons having. demands against the city,
which shall have been certified as provided in section
third, by the Mayor or some officer, committee or agent
authorized on behalf of the city. He shall carefully examine all such accounts and claims and see that they
are correctly cast, and present the same to the committee
on accounts. He shall Keep book in the manner and

‘ form said committee shall direct, wherein he shall enter
the date and amount of every claim against the city, as
finally corrected and allowed by said committee or ordered by the Mayor, and also the name of the person to

 ORDINANCES.
whom the same shall be allowed, designating the fund
or appropriation from which the same is to be paid; and
the certificate of the said committee, allowing any such
claim or account shall be made on the bill as allowed.
He shall under the direction of the committee of accounts, keep book or ledger, in which he shall enter
* the various appropriations made by the city council,
each under its appropriate head, and charge to each the
different payments and expenditures that from time to
time shall be made thereon. Whenever any appropriation shall be expended, the auditor shall immediately
give notice thereof to the mayor, the city council and
the committee on accounts, which committee shall pass
or allow no claim or account, chargeable to any head or
appropriation which is expended, until the city council
shall have provided the means of paying the same.

Src.  The committee on finance shall meet at the
close of each financial year, and as much oftener as they

, shall deem expedient, examine and audit the accounts
of the city treasurer, and for that purpose shall have
access to all books and vouchers in his possession, or in
the possession of the city clerk, or any other officer of
the city. The said committee shall not only compare
said accounts with the vouchers therefor, but shall ascertain whether all moneys due the city, have been collected and accounted for; they shall also examine all
notes and securities in his hands, and make report
thereof to the city council. Said committee shall have

-- power to require new security for any debt due the city,
whenever in their opinion the interests of the city require it.

Sro.  The committee of finance shall in the month
of February, annually, prepare and lay before the city
council an estimate of the amount of money necessary to
be raised for the ensuing financial year, under the various heads of appropriation, and the ways and means
of raising the same; and shall also in the month of December, annually, prepare and lay before the city counORDINANCES.  
cil statement of all the receipts and expenditures of
the preceding financial year, giving in detail the amount
of appropriation and expenditure of each department ;
and said statement shall be accompanied by schedule
of the property, real and personal, belonging to the city,
and the value thereof, and of the amount of the city
debt.

Sto.  The mayor, and incase of his absence or
inability, the chairman of the committee on accounts is
authorized to draw his orders upon the city treasurer
for the payment of any certain and ascertained sums
due from the city pursuant to any ordinance or vote of
the city council and for the payment of all salaries or
services to the city officers, in all cases in which the
amount of such salaries or the compensation for such
services, are fixed by the ordinances or votes of the city
council, and for the payment of the stipulated compensation to the teachers of the public schools, upon the certificate of the chairman of the school committee, of the
sums due from time to time, to the teachers respectively,
pursuant to the contracts under which they are usually

' employed, and for the payment of any sum either as
principal or interest due on any note or other security
from the city, the amount of which has been determined
by judgment of the judicial courts not exding appropriations which have been made by the city council
for said several objects.

SEec.  The city treasurer and city auditor shall
make up their accounts to the tenth day of December
annually, and the financial year shall hereafter begin
and end on the tenth day of December of each year.

SEo.  Whenever any bonds for the payment of
money shall be issued under the authority of the city
council, such bonds shall be signed by the mayor and
city treasurer, and countersigned by the city auditor.

  ORDINANCES.

SEc.  The city treasurer and collector shall give
bonds, with sureties, to the appropriation of the mayor
and aldermen, for the faithful performance of their respective duties.

In Common Council, Feb. .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Feb. 

Passed to be ordained. |
W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
, AN ORDINANCE TO EsTABLISH CiTY SEAL.
Be it Ordained by the City Council of the City of Hol- }
yoke, as follows :
SEcTION  The following shall be the device of the
' city seal, as designed by E. A. Ramsay, Esq., to wit:
It shall be circular in form, enclosing view of the dam
and mills in the foreground, and in the background a
portion of the Holyoke range of mountains. Around
: the inner edge of the seal are the words, Civico Regimine Donata  and the motto of the city, /ndustria
ef Copia, underneath the view are the words, Holyoke
Condita, A. D.,  .
SEo.  Said seal shall remain in the custody of the
city clerk.
GE
wy aie Ok
age Se
ae AN: muff Oi —-- ey
. aia O
In Common Council, Feb. .
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Hrywoop, President.
‘In Board of Aldermen, Feb. .
Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE. |
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO ORDINANCES.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows:

Section  All ordinances which shall be passed by
the City Council shall be engrossed or recorded by the
City Clerk ina fair and legible hand, in the order in
which they shall be passed, in book to be Kept for that
purpose, made of strong linen paper, with proper margins and index, to be lettered, ‘‘Charter and Ordinances of the City of Holyoke ;”’ which book shall be preserved in the office of the City Clerk, subject to the inspection of the citizens. .

Src.  All ordinances passed by the City Council
shall be inserted two weeks successively in one or more
newspapers, published in the city, as the Mayor and
Aldermen may designate.

Seo.  All fines and penalties for the violation of
an ordinance of the city, or any order of the Mayor and
Aldermen, shall, when recovered, inure to the use of the
city, and shall be paid into the city treasury, unless it
shall be otherwise directed by the laws of the commonwealth, or the ordinances of the city.

SEo.  All officers of the city shall enforce obedience to such laws of the commonwealth, or the ordinances of the city, and orders of the Mayor and Aldermen,

ORDINANCES. |
as it may be the duty of such officers respectfully to observe and enforce; and, to that end, shall take notice of
all complaints, and institute such prosecutions as shall
be necessary for that purpose.

Src.  Every ordinance which does not expressly
prescribe the time when it shall go into operation, shall.
take effect immediately from and after its passage.

In Common Council, Feb. .

Passed to be ordained. :

C. H. Heywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Feb. .

Passed to be ordained.

W. B.C. Pearsons, Mayor.
|  

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO CITY MESSENGER.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SEcTION  There shall be chosen annually in the
month of January, by concurrent vote of the City Council, Messenger to the City Council, who shall hold his
office for one year from the first day of February following, and until another is chosen in his place, subject to
removal at any time, by vote of the City Council.

Sec.  The City Messenger shall attend to the opening, warming, and closing of the various rooms in the
City Hall, and shall have the care and charge of the
same. He shall wait upon all Committees and Boards
when in session at the City Hall, and in general, shall ,

. perform all services required by the Mayor, by either.
branch of the City Council, or by such Committees or
Boards, and shall receive such compensation as the City
Council may from time to time determine.

In Common Council, Feb. .
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. HEywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, March .

Passed to be ordained. 
W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO THE POLIOE.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SECTION.  The Police Department shall consist of
a Chief of Police, and such number of Policemen as the :
Board of Aldermen, with the approval of the Mayor,
shall deem necessary. They shall be annually appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen shall be sworn —
shall hold office during the pleasure of the Board, and
shall, under such rules and regulations as the Board
may from time to time prescribe, perform all duties required of them as day and night Police, in accordance
with the ordinances of the city, and the laws of the
State.

Seo.  The compensation of the Chief of Police
shall be at the rate of ten hundred dollars per annum,
and that of the Policemen shall be at the rate of eight
hundred dollars per annum, payable monthly.

Src.  The Board may also appoint such Special
Policemen as it shall deem necessary, who shall be subject to all the rules prescribed by the Board, and shall
receive no compensation, except when employed by order of the Chief of Police.

SEc.  The Chief of Police shall be the head of the
Department of Police, and shall have entire control of
the department, its officers and members and of all con  ORDINANCES.

stables and other officers when engaged in the service of
the department. He shall devote his whole time to
maintain and preserve the peace, order, and cleanliness
of the city. He shall enforce all special laws relating to
the city, and all ordinances thereof, and all orders of the
Mayor and Aldermen. He shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments, and obstructions in the streets,
sidewalks, lanes, alleys, courts and public places, and
squares of the city, and shall remove the same, or take
all proper action in relation thereto, under the direction

 of the Mayor and Aldermen.

Seo.  He shall keep correct and complete record
of the business of his department, and shall make a
regular report thereof to the Mayor and Aldermen as
often as once in three months, and at such other times

 as they shall require.

Src.  The Chief of Police shall cause prodings
to be instituted for the prosecution of all violations of
the laws and ordinances, and see that the same are duly
tried. He shall to the utmost of his ability, obey, and
enforce, and carry into effect, all ordinances of the city,
and all orders and directions of the Mayorand Aldermen. :

 Src. Each member of the department shall devote his entire time to the preservation and maintenance
of the quiet, order, and peace of the city, shall enforce
the laws of the State and the special laws and ordinan- —
ces of the city, and discharge all duties required of him
by special orders. :

Src.  The night Policemen shall pass in and about
the streets, lanes, and principal inhabited places of the
city, to prevent danger by fire, and to see that order is
kept, and that all disturbances and disorders are prevented and suppressed and for that purpose, they shall
have authority to examine all persons whom they shall
see abroad in the night-time, and whom they shall have
reason to suspect of any unlawful design, and to deORDINANCES.  
mand of them their business abroad, and whither they
are going to enter any building, for the purpose of
suppressing riot or breach of the peace therein, and to
arrest any person there found making or abetting in a
riot or disturbance. And all persons so abroad and
suspected of any unlawful design as aforesaid, who
shall not give satisfactory account of themselves, and
all persons so arrested shall be secured by imprisonment or otherwise, to be safely kept until the next
morning, and shall then be taken before the Justice of
the Police Court, to be examined and proded with |
according to the nature of their offence.

| Src.  The Police when on duty, shall wear such
uniform, and carry with them such badge of their office
as the Mayor and Aldermen shall prescribe.
, In Board of Councilmen, Feb. .
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Heywoop, President.
| In Board of Aldermen, March .
Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO JUNK DEALERS AND
DEALERS IN SECOND-HAND ARTICLES.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows |

SEcTION.  No person shall deal in, purchase, sell,
or barter any junk, old metals or second-hand articles,
except as hereinafter provided.

Src.  Every person dealing, or proposing to deal
in such articles, by purchase, sale or barter, shall first:
apply for and obtain from the Mayorand Aldermen a
license for that purpose and from and after the granting thereof, shall keep book in which he shall record,
at the time of every purchase or receipt of any such article, brief description of the same, with the name,
age and residence of the party from whom, and the day
and hour when he so received it, which book shall at
all times be open to the inspection of the Mayor, or any
Alderman, or any person duly authorized by the Mayor
and Alderman, to make such examination.

SEc.  No dealer in such articles shall, directly or
indirectly, purchase or receive by way of barter or exchange, any such article of any minor or apprentice,
knowing or having reason to believe him to be such, and
when any such article shall be sold by any dealer within one week from the time of its purchase or receipt, he
shall enter on his book the name and address of the purORDINANCES.  
chaser, with such other proofs as may be necessary to
keep trace of the same.

Sxec.  Nosuch dealer shall carry on his business
in any other place than that designated in his license,
which shall be shop or other suitable place devoted
thereto, and distinguished by conspicuous sign thereon, stating, in plain and legible letters, the name and
occupation of said dealer. And for the purposes of
business under said license, any such dealer may keep
his shop open from sunrise till nine o’clock in the evening of every week day, but at no other time. :

Sec.  The Mayor and Aldermen may grant licenses —
to any applicant, within their discretion, for the pur-.
pose of carrying on the business herein described, upon
such terms as they may determine, reserving to the
Mayor or any Alderman, or other person duly author| ized, the full right to visit and examine any such shop
or place of business at any time, and to inspect all articles of merchandise therein.

Sto.  Whenever any person, not having any license
as herein provided, shall, in the pursuit of lawful and
legitimate trade, purchase or réceive by exchange any
such junk, old metals or second-hand articles from the
owner or owners thereof, known or believed so to be,
and on the premises of such owner or owners, then such
transaction sha]l not be held to violate the provisions of
this ordinance.

Srec.  No person shall, without license, collect or .
deal in junk, old metals, rags, or second hand articles,
and every wagon, cart, sleigh, sled or other vehicles
used in the collection of junk, old metals, rags, or second-hand articles, shall be licensed by the Mayor and
Aldermen, and shall have the owner’s name and the
number of the license placed upon the outside, and upon
each side thereof, in plain legible words and figures of
not less than one and one-half inches in size, and so that
the same may be distinctly seen. The person in whose
name license is taken out for any such vehicle, shall

  ORDINANCES.

be considered the owner of the same until such license
is surrendered, and shall be liable to the penalty prescribed fora breach of the ordinances of the city, in case
of the violation of the provisions of this section.

Src.  All the provisions of this ordinance shall be
incorporated into every license issued under it and any
person offending against the same shall forfeit sum
not exding twenty dollars for each offence.

 In Common Council, March .

Passed to be ordained. .

C. H. HEywoop President.
In Board of Aldermen, March .

Passed to be ordained.

W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANOE IN RELATION To DEEDs. ,
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows:

SECTION  All deeds, conveyances, leases, and
other instruments, which shall be given by the city, and
which to be valid in law must be signed, sealed and acknowledged, shall be signed and acknowledged by the
Mayor, on behalf of the city, and shall be by him sealed
with the common seal of the city.

SEo.  Whenever the amount due and payable on
any mortgage belonging to the city shall be paid to the
City Treasurer, he shall certify the same to the Mayor,
who shall thereupon discharge the mortgage; or, by and
with the consent of the Board of Aldermen, may assign
the same; and for that purpose the Mayor shall execute
and deliver all necessary deeds and instruments.

In Common Council, Feb. .
Passed to be ordained.
, C. H. Htywoop, President. ,
In Board of Aldermen, March |
Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO THE CiTy SOLICITOR.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SEcTION  On the first Monday of January annually, or as soon after as it may be convenient, there shall
be elected by concurrent vote of both branches of the
City Council, to be first acted upon by the Mayor and
Aldermen, Solicitor for the city of Holyoke, who shall

, be resident citizen thereof, and who shall have been
admitted an attorney and counsellor of the Courts of the
Commonwealth. He shall hold his office for one year
from the first Monday of January, in the year in which
he shall be elected, and until his successor is elected and
‘qualified, unless sooner removed and he shall be removable at the pleasure of the City Council, and vacancies may be filled at any time for the unexpired term.

SEo.  It shall be the duty of the Solicitor, by himself or by some person by him duly authorized, for
whose conduct, skill, and faithfulness he shall be accountable, to draft all bonds, deeds, obligations, contracts, leases, conveyances, agreements and other legal
instruments of whatever nature which may be required
of him by any ordinance or order of the Board of Aldermen, or of the City Council, or which by any ordinance
or order heretofore passed, may be requisite to be done
and made by the city of Holyoke, and any person or

ORDINANCES.  
persons contracting with the city in its‘corporate capacity, and which, by law, usage, or agreement, the city is
to be at the expense of drawing.

Sro.  It shall be the duty of the city Solicitor to
commence and prosecute all actions and suits to be
commenced by the city, before any tribunal in this Commonwealth, whether in law or equity, and also to appear in, defend and advocate the rights and interests of
the city, or any of the officers of the city in any suit or
prosecution, for any act or omission in the discharge
of their official duties, wherein, any estate, right, privilege, ordinances, or act of the city government, or any
breach of any ordinance may be brought in question.
And said solicitor shall also appear before the legisla- 
lature of the Commonwealth, or any Committee thereof,
whether of either or both branches of the same, and
there, in behalf of the city, represent, answer for, defend, and advocate the interests and welfare of said city,  
whenever the same may be directly or incidentally affected, whether to prosecute or defend the same. And he
shall, in all matters, do all and every professional act,
incident to the office, which may be required of him by
the city government, or by any. Joint or special Com- |
mittee thereof, or by any ordinance or order heretofore
passed. And he shall, when required, furnish the .
Mayor, Board of Aldermen, the Common Council, or |
any Joint or special Committee of either branch thereof, and any officer of the city government who may require it in the official discharge of his duties, with his
‘legal opinion on any subject touching the duties of their
respective offices. }

Sro.  In full compensation for all the services of
said Solicitor, he shall receive such salary as the City
Council may from time to time fix and determine. In
all cases, however, when his attendance may be required out of the city, his reasonable traveling expenses
shall be allowed him, and in suits and prosecutions he
shall be entitled to receive and retain for his own use,

  ORDINANCES.

the legal taxable costs, not including witness fees, which
may be recovered of the adverse party, where the city
shall recover the same according to the usage.and practice of the courts.

Sro.  He shall annually in the month of December, make report to the City Council, of the business
of his office during the preceding year, stating the suits
pending at the time of said report and brief description
of each, and he shall deliver to his successor in office,
all papers, records, documents, or other information he
may have concerning any claims for or against the city.

In Common Council, March .
. Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, March .
' Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
 AN ORDINANOE IN RELATION TO CONSTABLES.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke,as follows:

SxcTrion  The Mayor and Aldermen may appoint
such number of Constables for the service of eivil precepts as they shall deem proper, who shall be qualified ..
by giving bonds according to law, which Constable shall
be entitled to all fees received by them for service of
processes. —

Src.  The Constables of the city, shall, in case of
fire within their respective wards, repair to the place
where the fire may be, and attend diligently to the preservation of the public peace, and the prevention of thefts,
and of the loss or destruction of property.

In Common Council, June .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. Hrywoop President.
In Board of Aldermen, June .

Passed to be ordained.
| W. B. C. PEAarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION To THE MANUFACTURE,

STORAGE, AND SALE oF PETROLEUM AND ITs PRoDUCTS. |
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SECTION  Any person desiring to manufacture, refine,
mix, store, or keep for sale any oil or fluid composed
wholly or in part of any of the products of petroleum, in
a greater quantity than one hundred gallons, in any one
locality in the city of Holyoke, except as provided in
the fifth section of chapter one hundred and fifty-two of
the acts of the year eighteen hundred and sixty-nine,
shall make application in writing for license therefor
to the Board of Aldermen of said city, and shall state in
such application the locality, building or part of building for which he desires license, and whether he desires license for manufacturing, refining, and mixing
said articles, or any of them, or license for storing or
keeping them, or both.

Src.  No license shall be granted for manufacturing, refining, mixing, storing or keeping said articles, or
any of them, upon any alley, sidewalk or street within
the limits of the city, nor upon any floor of building
above the first floor.

SEro.  No license shall be granted for mixing, storing, or Keeping crude petroleum, naptha, or gasoline in

ORDINANCES.  
any part of building above the cellar unless said
articles are contained in metallic vessels securely closed.

SEO.  No license shall be granted for selling or
keeping for sale at retail, for illuminating purposes, any
kerosene, refined petroleum, or any product of petroleum, which has not been inspected by the officer appointed for that purpose by the Mayor and Aldermen.

Src.  Except as hereinbefore expressly provided,
licenses may be granted for manufacturing, refining,
mixing, storing or Keeping said articles, or any of them,
in cellars or upon the first floor of buildings or in other
suitable localities, in such quantities over one hundred —
gallons, and in such manner as the Board of Aldermen may in each case determine, except that no license |
shall be granted for manufacturing, refining, mixing,
storing or keeping said articles, or any of them, upon
the first floor of any building, in greater quantity than

’ one hundred gallons, unless the same be contained in
metallic vessels securely closed, or the foundation and
walls of said building be of brick, stone or iron, and the
sills and walls of said building be built without apertures for space of at least one foot above the floor.

Src.  There shall be expressed in said license the
name of the person or persons to whom the license is
granted, and whether he or they are permitted to manufacture, refine and mix said articles, or any of them, or
to store and keep them, or both, and description of the
locality, building or part of building licensed, and any
limitations upon the quantity of said articles, or any of
them which may be manufactured, refined, mixed,
stored or kept therein, or upon the manner of manufacturing, refining, mixing, storing or keeping the same,
which the Board of Aldermen may in each case see fit
to impose, and any person so licensed, may manufacture, refine, mix, store or keep said articles, or any of
them within the terms of his license, either on his own
account, or on account of any other person. All persons holding such license shall allow the Chief of Police,

 ORDINANCES.
the Chief Engineer of the fire department, or any of the
Assistant Engineers, or the Inspector or Inspectors appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen, to enter the premises described in the license, and take such samples of
oils and make such examinations of the premises as said
Chief of Police, Engineers or Inspectors deem expedient.
Any violation of the terms of said license shall work a
revocation of the same, and the Board of Aldermen may
revoke any license, without cause at any time.
Src.  It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
make complaints to the Police Court of all violations of
- the provisions of chapter one hundred and fifty-two and
chapter three hundred and forty-five of the acts of the
year eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, and to bring suits
in the name of the Mayor of the city against all persons
who manufacture, refine, mix, store or keep for sale any
oil or fluid composed wholly orin part of the products
of petroleum, without the license required by this ordi- 
nance.
In Common Council, June .
Passed to be ordained.
: C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, June .
Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

| CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO STREETS AND THE |
PREVENTION OF ABUSES THEREIN.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows:

SECTION.  The several streets in the city of Holyoke shall continue to be called and known by the
names by which they are now called and known, until
the same shall be altered by the Board of Mayor and
Aldermen, and the said Board may change or alter the
name of any street, highway or public place and they
shall establish the names of all streets, highways, and
public places, hereafter laid out and accepted by said
city, or by any other authority within said city.

SEc.  No person, except Superintendent of highways, or other person acting under the authority of the
Legislature or of the City Council, shall break or dig up
the ground, in any highway, street, lane or alley, or
erect thereon any staging for building, or place thereon
any wood, timber, coal, earth, stones, bricks, lumber,
or building material, or any goods, wares, or merchandise, or any dirt, sawdust, soot, ashes, cinders, —
shreds, shavings, hair, manure, oyster, lobster or clam
shells, or any animal or vegetable substance, or any
rubbish, offal, filth, or obstruction of any kind, without |

. awritten license from the Board of Mayor and Aldermen, and any person licensed as aforesaid, who shall

  ORDINANCES.

break or dig up the ground, pavement or sidewalk,
shall, before the expiration of the license, restore the
same to the acceptance of the Board of Mayorand Al- .
dermen, or Superintendent of highways.

Seo.  Whenever any street, lane, alley or sidewalk, or other public place in the city, shall under any
license granted as provided in the preceding section, be
dug up, obstructed, encumbered or otherwise thereby
rendered unsafe or inconvenient for travel, the person so |
licensed shall put, and at all times keep up suitable
railing or fence around the section of the street, lane,
alley or other public place so obstructed, so long as the
same shall be or remain unsafe or inconvenient as aforesaid, and shall also keep one or more lighted lanterns
fixed to such fence or fixed in some other proper manner, every night from twilight in the evening through
the whole night, so long as such railing or fence shall
be kept standing or obstruction remain. He shall also

within such reasonable time as the Mayor and Aldermen shall direct, amend and repair such street, lane or
alley, sidewalk or public place, to the acceptance of the
Superintendent of highways.

Src.  No person shall dig up, cut down, remove, |
injure or destroy any ornamental, fruit or shade tree, |
shrub or vine,growing or being in any of the streets or |
highways, or on any of the public grounds of said city, 
without the written permission of the Board of Mayor.
and Aldermen, or persons having said grounds in )
charge. And no person shall fasten any horse or other
animal to any such tree, or to any fence erected for the .
protection thereof.  

Src.  No person shall blast any rocks or other
substance with gunpowder, gun-cotton, nitro glycerine,
or other explosive material, at any place within fifty |
rods of any street or public place in said city, without
license of the Board of Mayor and Aldermen, specify- .
ing the terms and conditions on which such license is |
granted.

“ ORDINANCES.  

Sro.  No person shall course, coast, orslideonany .
sleigh, sled, or other vehicle, in, along, or upon any of
the streets or highways, in said city, except in such
places and under such restrictions as the Board of Mayor and Aldermen shall designate and require.

Sxo.  No person shall course, coast, or’ slide upon
any sled, board or other thing, upon any sidewalk or
footwalk in said city.

Src.  No person shall place or maintain any awning or shade over any part of any street or sidewalk, unless the same be safely and securely fastened, and so located and constructed as in no wise to incommode passengers, the lowest part thereof to be at least eight feet
above the sidewalk, and in no case to extend beyond the
line thereof. No such awning or shade shall be placed or
maintained without written permission from the Mayor
and Aldermen, which permission shall be revocable, and
any person having such permission, so placing or maintaining the same, shall in all respects conform to any
directions in relation to the location, extent, materials,
construction and maintenance thereof which shall be
given by the Mayor and Aldermen.

SEc.  No person shall suspend or display, or cause
to be suspended or displayed, any sign, flag, article of
merchandise, or any other thing, on or over any sidewalk or street in said city, unless the lowest part thereof be at least eight feet above the sidewalk or street.
And nosuch sign, flag, article of merchandise or other
thing, shall be so suspended or maintained without written permission from the Mayor and Aldermen, which
permission shall be revocable, and any person having
such permission and so suspending or displaying the
same, shall in all respects conform to any directions in
relation to the location, extent, construction and maintenance thereof which shall be given by the Mayor and
Aldermen. |

Src.  No person shall suffer his fire-wood, coal,

  ORDINANCES.

. or other fuel, in any quantity, to remain unnecessarily
on any sidewalk, or in any street, lane, alley or public
place in said city over night, or after twilight in the evening. And in caseit must of necessity remain, the said
owner shall cause sufficient light to be placed and
kept over and near the same through the night to prevent injury therefrom.

Src.  No person shall drive, wheel, draw or push
any cart, wheelbarrow or other vehicle of burden or of
pleasure, upon or along any sidewalk in the city except
for the purpose of crossing such sidewalk to go to or
out of some adjoining enclosure, provided this section
shall not apply to children’s carriages drawn by hand.

Sec.  No person shall permit any goat, sheep,
swine, horse, mule, ox, cow, under his care, to go upon
any sidewalk in the city except for the purpose of crossing such sidewalk to go to or from some adjoining enclosure.

Sro.  No person shall stand with, or permit any
team under his care or control to stand across any public highway or street in such manner as to obstruct the
travel over the same, and no person shall stop with any
team in any public street at the side of, or so near to
another team as to obstruct public travel, and no person
shall stop with any team or carriage upon or across any
cross-walk in any street or highway in the city.

Sto.  No owner or person having the care of any

- Swine, sheep, goats, horses, mules or neat cattle, shall
permit or suffer the same to go at large in any street or
highway, common, square, or other public place within
said city.

Sto.  No person shall drive any horse, mule or
other animal, in any street, alley or highway in the
city, at rate of speed exding eight miles per hour,
nor in such manner as to endanger or unreasonably incommode any person passing therein.

Src.  No person shall saw any wood or pile the

ORDINANCES.  
same on the sidewalk of any street or highway of the
city.

Sro.  No person shall set fire to any rocket,
cracker, squib, serpent or other fire-works, or make any
bonfire in any street, lane, highway, public square or
common in the city, without license from the Mayor
and Aldermen.

SEo.  No person shall wantonly mar, injure, deface or destroy any fence, guide post, sign-board, awning, lamp-post, lamp or lantern, in any street, square or
public place in the city.

SEo.  No person shall light or extinguish any
city lamp in any street, square or public place in the
city, except by permission of the Mayor and Aldermen.

Src.  No person shall suffer cellar door, or cellar door-way, from any sidewalk or street in said city,
into any cellar or basement, to be kept open when not
in immediate use nor when in immediate use after the
beginning of twilight, except good and sufficient light
be constantly kept at the entrance of such door-way.

Src.  No cellar, vault, cistern or well, shall be
kept uncovered in or near any street or highway in said
city, unless the same be enclosed by safe and sufficient
fence, curb or guard. :

Src.  No person shall, within the limits of any
street or highway in said city, play at any game of ball,
or foot ball, throw any snow ball, stones or other hard
substance, drive or roll hoop, fly any kite, or engage
in any other amusement, game or exercise, interfering
with free, safe and convenient use of such street or highway, by any persons traveling or passing along the same.
Nor shall any person promote or encourage the fighting
of birds or animals in any street, highway or public
place in said city.

SEc.  No person shall fire or discharge any gun,
pistol, fowling piece, or other fire arm, in or across any
of the streets, highway, or public squares, within the

. ORDINANCES.

city provided, this section shall not apply to the use
of such weapons at any military exercise or review under the authority of commissioned officer of the mili, tia, nor in the lawful defence of the person, family, or
property of any citizen, or in the performance of any
duty required by law, nor to any person firing salute
of cannon or artillery by leave of the Board of Mayor
and Aldermen.
' Src.  No person shall expose in or upon any
street or public place in said city, any table or device,
of any kind, by or upon which any game of hazard, or
chance can be played and no person shall there play
at the same, or any other unlawful game.

Sro.  No person shall remove any street-dirt, or
manure from any public street in the city, without authority from the Superintendent of streets.

SEo.  No person shall behave himself ina rude
and disorderly manner, or use any indecent or profane
language in any street, lane, alley or other public place
in the city.

Src.  No person shall swim or bathe in any pond,
stream or river in the city, divested of clothing so as to
be indecently exposed to the view of any person law fully passing or being in or upon any street, lane, common, square, railroad or other public place within the
city.

Src.  No person shall allow any sink-water or
other impure water, to run from any house, barn, or lot
occupied by him, or under his control into any street or
highway in the city. |

Src.  No person shall allow any gate or door belonging to premises owned or occupied by him or under
his control, to swing on, over or into any street or sidewalk in thecity. This section to apply only to the
densely populated portions of the city.

Src.  No auctioneer shall hold his sale upon any
sidewalk or other thoroughfare in the city, so as to ob  ORDINANCES. .
struct or prevent the free and convenient use of the same
by foot passengers traveling thereon.

Sto.  Three or more persons shall not stand together or near each other in any street, or on any footwalk or sidewalk in the city, so as to obstruct the free
passage for foot passengers, and any person or persons
so standing shall move on immediately after request
so to do, made by the Mayor, Chief of Police, or any |
Police officer or watchman.

Sxo.  No person shall be or remain upon the
steps of, or other projection from any church, hotel, hall
or public building, nor in any hall, space or way leading thereto, so as to incommode or obstruct the passage
to and from such church, hall, hotel, or building. And
every person so being or remaining, when ordered by
the Mayor, Chief of Police, Police officer, watchman,
owner, agent or other person having charge of said
church, hotel, hall or other public building, shall immediately depart therefrom. —

Sec.  No person or persons shall at any time
whatsoever carry into or through any public street of the
city, any part of the contents of any privy, vault or cesspool, in any cart, wagon or other vehicle, which shall
not be closely covered water-tight and kept clean on the
outer surface, and such work shall be done between ten
o’ clock in the evening and four in the morning.

SEo.  The tenant, occupant,‘and in case there
shall be no tenant, the owner, agent, or person having
the care of any building or lot of land bordering on any
street, lane, court, square or public place within the city, 
where there is any footway or sidewalk, shall cause all
the snow and ice to be removed from such sidewalk.

If the snow shall fall in the day time, it shall be removed from the sidewalk within twelve hours from the
time it shall have ceased falling if in the night-time, it
shall be removed by twelve o’clock at noon of the day
sucding and all ice shall be removed within twenty ORDINANCES.
four hours after the same shall form upon the sidewalk,
or the same be rendered safe and convenient for travel,
by covering the same with sand or some other suitable
substance.

And this section shall apply to snow or ice which may
have fallen from any building, and to ice formed from
water running or accumulating upon any sidewalk.
This section to apply only to the densely populated portions of the city.

Src.  No person shall throw or put or cause to be

. thrown or put, any snow or ice into any street or alley
in the city, unless the same shall be broken up and
spread evenly over the surface of such street or alley.

Src.  No person shall move or cause to be moved
any house, shop or building, through any street or
alley in the city, without first obtaining written license
therefor from the Mayor and Aldermen, who may grant
the same on such terms and conditions as they shall deem
safe and proper provided, that condition of such
license shall be, that no injury shall be done to any
shade, fruit or other ornamental tree standing in or contiguous to any such street, lane, alley or highway and
such license shall specify the street through which, and
the time within which said building shall be moved,
beyond which time said license shall not avail.

Src.  No person shall erect, set up, or maintain
any fence, portico, platform or door-step, extending into any highway, street or sidewalk in said city.

Src.  No person shall in any manner, obstruct
any sidewalk or cross-walk in the city, so as to interfere
with the convenient use of the same by any person traveling thereon.

Src.  The sidewalks within the meaning of this
Ordinance shall be such parts of the highway, whether
public or private, as are within the curbstone thereof, in
all places where curbstone are set, and also such parts
of such highway, as have been established as foot or

|

ORDINANCES.  
sidewalk, and also such parts of any street or highway,
as shall be established and determined as foot or sidewalks. :

SEo.  Whoever shall offend against, or fail to
comply with any of the provisions of this Ordinance,
shall for each and every offence forfeit and pay penalty of not less than two nor more than twenty dollars.

Src.  No person shall be prosecuted for any offence against any of the provisions of this Ordinance,
unless complaint for the same shall be instituted and |
commenced within four months from the time of committing such offence. |

Sto.  The Chief of Police and all Police officers
and watchmen are especially charged to see that the

 provisions of this Ordinance are enforced.
In Common Council, June .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. Heywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, June .

Passed to be ordained.

W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE CONCERNING THE SUPERINTENDENT OF
STREETS.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SEcTION  There shall be chosen annually on the
first Monday of February or within thirty days thereafter, by the City Council superintendent of streets,
who shall hold his office for one year from the first Monday of March in the year in which he shall be chosen,
and until his successor is chosen and qualified, unless
sooner removed. He shall be removable at the pleasure
of the City Council, and vacancy may be filled at any
time for the unexpired,term. Said superintendent shall
receive such compensation for his services as the City
Council shall from time to time determine, and shall de: vote his whole time to the service of the city.

Sto.  The said superintendent is authorized to appoint foreman, to act under his control and direction,
who shall be approved by the Mayor and Aldermen,
and who shall receive such compensation as the City
Council may from time to time determine. The said
foreman may be removed at any time by the said superintendent, or the Mayor and Aldermen.

Src.  It shall be the duty of the superintendent of
streets, under the general care and direction of the Joint
Committee of highways, bridges, &c., to superintend the

| ORDINANCES.  
general state of the streets, roads, sidewalks, lanes, bridges, public places and squares of the city to attend to the
making, widening, or alteration of the same; to cause
the same to be kept in good, sufficient and suitable repair and when so ordered to make all contracts for the
supply of labor and the materials therefor.

Sto.  The said superintendent, under the control
and direction of the said committee, shall have care and
superintendence of the city stables, horses, carts, vehicles, tools, implements and other property of the city,
belonging to or attached to this department, and shall
see that the same are kept in good order and condition,
and shall make all necessary arrangements for cleaning
the streets and disposing of manure and street dirt. In
case of fire, the teams and their drivers shall be subject :
to the orders of the Board of Engineers of the fire department, and it shall be the duty of the drivers, in case
of fire, to repair to their respective engine houses, without waiting for orders.

Sro.  The said superintendent shall keep an exact
account of the expenditures in this department, with the
names of all. persons who have furnished materials, and
of all workmen, and the amount due to each individual,
and shall lay the same before the said committee, for
their examination and allowance, by the last day in :
each month, and at such other times as the said committee may direct, and he shall, on or before the fifteenth
day in December, annually make and render to the City
Council, report containing general statement of the
expenses of this department during the preceding financial year, and specifying, as near as may be, the
amounts expended upon different streets for sidewalks,
number of feet of curb stones laid, number of yards of
paving and cost of same, and such other information as
he may consider desirable, together with schedule in

an
  ORDINANCES.
detail of the property under his charge belonging to the
city. |
In Common Council, June .
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, June .
Passed to be ordained.
W. B.C. PEarsons, Mayor.

$ |
CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE CONOERNING THE DUTIES oF CERTAIN
OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SEoTion  The City Treasurer shall make up his
accounts to the tenth day of December, and the finanCial year shall henceforth begin and end on the tenth
day of December of each year. He shall also cause all
books, papers, vouchers and documents under his care,
and belonging to the city, to be as securely deposited
and kept from fire or other casuality, as the means furnished by the city shall place in his power, and he shall
render such other services and furnish such other infor mation respecting the accounts, finances and payments
of the city, as either branch of the Council or any Committee thereof may from time to time require. He shall
once in six months, aud oftener if required, lay before
the City Council statement of the condition of the
treasury, and of all moneys received and paid by him
on city accounts, during the preceding six months.

Src.  The assessors shall annually complete the
assessment of taxes, and commit the same with the warrants to the collector by the first day of August.

Sxo.  The assessors of each year are authorized in
their discretion, to abate any taxes assessed by them,
and they shall report list of such abatements to the

  ORDINANCES.

City Council, on or before the first day of December,
with the reasons for such abatement, stated against each
name.

Sro.  The collector shall be required to pay over
to the treasurer, once in each week, after he receives his
tax lists and warrants, all moneys by him collected, provided the amount collected exds one hundred dollars and he shall collect and pay over to the treasurer,
including payment on the county tax, one-half of the
whole amount committed to him, within three months
of the time of commitment, one-quarter in two months
thereafter, and the residue by the first of March in each
year provided that at least seven months be allowed
for collecting the whole.

Src.  The overseers of the poor and the school
committee shall meet, at least, as often as once in each
month, for the transaction of business and at the commencement of each municipal year, shall give public
notice of the times and places of their meetings during
the year, and no account or claim shall be audited or
certified by them, except at such regular meetings or
adjournments thereof.

, Src.  The overseers of the poor shall annually, on
or before the twentieth day of December, report to the
City Council, their prodings in the discharge of the
duties of their office, with statement of their expenditures, the number of persons wholly or partially supported by the city, and the amount paid for the same.

Src.  The overseers of the poor shall annually, as
soon after their election as may be convenient, appoint
some one of theirown number to be almoner of the
Board, who shall hold his office for one year, and until
his successor  appointed, unless sooner removed by
said overseers of the poor.

Src.  The Joint Standing Committee on fire department, the Joint Standing Committee on fuel and
street lights, the Joint Standing Committee on the pauORDINANCES.  
per department, the Joint Standing Committee on highways, sidewalks and bridges, and the Committee on sewers and drains, shall annually, on or before the twentieth day of February, prepare and communicate to the
Committee on finance, an estimate of the amount of
money necessary to be raised for the then current financial year, for the use of the respective departments.

SEo.  The assessor shall meet seasonably during
the term allowed for abatement of taxes, to decide upon
all applications for abatement, and shall give information
to the collector from time to time before the expiration

of said term, of all abatements which they have made.

Sto.  The offices of the City Clerk and City Treasurer shall be kept open to the public, for business, from
nine o’clock A. m., to half-past twelve o’clock P. M., of
each business day in the year, and from seven o'clock
to nine o’clock, Pp. M., on the evening of Tuesday of each
week in the year. ,

In Common Council, June .

Passed to be ordained. :

 C. H. HeEywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, June .

Passed to be ordained.

W. B.C. PEARsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH FIRE DEPARTMENT IN
THE City or HOLYOKE.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SEcTION  fire department for the city of Hol‘ yoke is hereby established which shall consist of one
Chief Engineer, four Assistant Engineers, and as many
Engine, Hose, and Hook and Ladder Companies as the
fire apparatus of the city, may from time to time, re. quire for efficient service. |
Sec.  The Chief and Assistant Engineers shall be
chosen annually on the third Monday of January, or
within ten days thereafter by the joint ballot of the city
council, in convention. They shall hold their offices for
one year from the first day of February in each year and
until their successors are elected and qualified, unless
sooner removed by concurrent vote of the city council.
Vacancies may be filled by election at any time. The
respective rank of the assistant engineers shall be determined in their election. Provided, that the term of office of the engineers elected in the year eighteen hundred and seventy-four shall commence at the time of their
election and hold until the first day of February, in the

year eighteen hundred and seventy-five.
Src.  The engineers so chosen shall meet and organize as board of engineers. The chief engineer and

ORDINANCES.  
in his absence, the assistant engineer first in rank, shall
preside at all meetings of the board. majority of the whole board shall constitute quorum. They may appoint asecretary and make regulations for their own
government subject to the approval of the Mayor and
Aldermen. Such secretary shall receive twenty-five
dollars per annum for his services.  Oe

Sro.  The board of engineers shall have the supervision and control of all the fire apparatus of the city,
and all houses and furniture used for the purposes of
the department, and of all public hydrants in case of fire,
and shall give immediate notice to the Mayor and
Aldermen of any defect therein. They shall alsohave —
the right to authorize the use of said public hydrants,
at all regular parades of the department, and atall trials
of engines or hose, ordered by vote of the Board of Engineers. They shall be responsible for the discipline and

good conduct of the department, both officers and men,
and shall have control over all persons belonging to the
department. They may make such rules and regulations
for the government and good conduct of the department,
and for the extinguishment of fires, as they may deem
expedient, the same not being repugnant to the laws of
the commonwealth, or any ordinance of the city, and
- being subject to the approval of the Mayor and Aldermen. The Assistant Engineers shall report their absences from fires to the Secretary, with the reasons therefor, who shall keep record of the same.

Sec.  Itshall be the duty of the Board of Engineers to examine into the condition of the engines, and
all other fire apparatus, and the houses and furniture
used for the purposes of the department, as often as circumstances may render it expedient; to cause the same
to be kept in repair, and when worn out, to be replaced,
and to make such alterations therein, and additions ,
thereto, as they shall deem necessary, provided no one
item of expense shall exd one hundred dollars, ex  ORDINANCES. |
cept by permission of the Committee on fire department,
given in writing, and provided farther that said Committee shall not authorize the expenditure for any one item,
of sum exding three hundred dollars, unless the
same be first specifically authorized by the City Council.

So.  It shall be the duty of the Chief Engineer,
to keep, or cause to be kept, fair and exact rolls of the
respective companies, specifying the time of admission
and discharge, the name, age, occupation, and residence
of each member, and an accurate account of all money .
that may be received and expended for said department,

' and annually on or before the fifteenth day of December, to make or cause to be made to the City Council, a
detailed report of the condition of the department, together with the cost of its maintenance also to report
all accidents by fire which may happen in the city, with
the cause thereof, if possible, and the number and description of the buildings injured or destroyed, with the
names of the owners, and the estimated logs, such report
to be published as the City Council direct.

Src.  Itshall be the duty of the engineers to examine all buildings, and other places, where ashes, shavings, or other combustible materials may be deposited,
take care of the removal of the same, whenever in the
opinion of any two of them, the same will expose the
city to fires, and to direct the tenant or occupant of said
buildings, or other places, to remove the same, and in
case of neglect or refusal of such tenant or occupant so
to do, to cause the same to be removed at the expense
of such tenant or occupant, who shall in addition, be

' liable to penalty not exding twenty dollars for such
neglect or refusal. It shall also be the duty of said engineers, whenever either of them shall be requested by
two or more discreet and trustworthy persons, representing that ashes or combustible materials are kept in
an insecure or illegal manner, or that the funnels, flues,
fireboards or heating apparatus of any building, are in

ORDINANCES.  
an insecure and dangerous state, to make personal examination of such premises, and give to the owner or occupant, written notice of the alterations or repairs which
in their opinion, the public safety may require, and any
person who shall neglect or refuse to make the alterations, or repairs so required, or shall prevent the examinations aforesaid, or shall obstruct any engineer carrying out the provisions of this section, shall also be liable
to penalty not exding twenty dollars.

Sro.  It shall be the duty of the several engineers
whenever fire breaks out in the city, immediately to repair to the place of said fire, to take proper measures to
arrange the several engines and other apparatus in the
best positions, and cause them to be worked in the most
effectual manner. The Chief Engineer, and in his absence the Assistant Engineer first in rank of those present, shall have the sole and absolute control and command over all the other engineers, all members of the
fire department, and all other persons present and assisting at fires.

Sec.  If any person not member of the fire department, being present at any fire shall be guilty of
disorderly conduct, by assuming without authority, to
exercise control over any members of the fire department in respect to their duty, or by interfering with or
obstructing them while in the performance of their duty,
or by willfully or unnecessarily making outcries or other
loud noises, or shall promote or encourage disorderly
conduct in others, he shall be liable to fine not exding twenty dollars for every such offence. It shall be
the duty of the engineers to report to the Mayor and Aldermen the name of any person not member of the fire
department, who shall contrary to law refuse or neglect
to obey any orders of any engineer given at any fire.

Src.  The Chief Engineer before leaving the city
to be absent one day or more shall report to the Mayor
or Committee on fire department. No Assistant Engi  ORDINANCES. ,
neer or foreman shall leave:the city to be absent one
day or more, without first reporting to the Chief Engineer,. or in case of his absence, tothe Assistant Engineer
in charge, and not.more than two Assistant Engineers
shall be absent from the-city at the same time. No
other member of the fire department shall leave the city,
without having procured .a substitute to the acceptance
of the foreman of his company, and no one shall be allowed substitute except in. case of sickness, or absence
from the city, and in no instance for longer period
than one month except in case of sickness. Ss So.  All companies shall. have foreman, two
| assistant foremen, and clerk, and such other officers and
members, as the Mayor and Aldermen shall direct, except as hereinafter provided, all of whom shall be ap;
pointed by the Mayor and Aldermen. The officers of
said company shall be nominated annually in the month
of January, or whenever vacancy occurs, by and from
the members of the respective companies, and return
thereof made to the Board of Engineers for their approval or rejection. If any one is rejected by them, the
name rejected shall be reported to the company, who
shall select another person for approval. In case of approval by the Board of Engineers, the names of all persons approved shall be sent to the Mayor and Aldermen
for their approval or rejection and in case of rejection,
another person shall be nominated in the same manner
before the next regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen, and the like prodings had as before and the
officers when approved shall receive notice of their appointment signed by the City Clerk, and shall hold their
offices for one year unless sooner removed and until
others shall be appointed in their stead. If any company after receiving notice of rejection, shall neglect
for the space of one week, to nominate and return
another suitable person as aforesaid, the Board of Engineers shall send to the Board of Aldermen for their approval or rejection, the name of some suitable person
‘

ORDINANCES.  
for the office, to be selected: from.the same company.
In addition to the above, every steam fire engine company shall have one engineman, one fireman, and one
driver, to be appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen.

- Sxo.  No person shall be admitted or remain a
. member of the fire department unless he is at the time a
resident of Holyoke and over nineteen years of age.
- SxEo.  Any officer or member of the fire department, except the Chief and Assistant Engineers, may at
any time be discharged from the department by the
Mayor and Aldermen. Sec.  In all cases of removal from the department, the name of the party removed with statement
of the reasons therefor, shall be entered on the records
of the engineers, and copy of the same shall be transmitted to the Mayor and Aldermen, before their next
regular meeting. ,
Src.  It shall be the duty of the foremen to see
that the several engines and apparatus committed to
their care, and the several buildings in which the same
are deposited, and all things in or belonging to the
same, are kept clean, and in order for immediate
use. It shall also be their duty to preserve order and
discipline at all times in their respective companies, and
require and enforce strict compliance with the city or-
dinances, the rules and regulations of the department,
and the orders of the engineers. They shall also keep,
or cause to be kept, by the clerks of their respective
companies, fair and exact rolls, specifying the time of
admission, discharge, and age of each member, and accounts of all city property intrusted to the care of the
several members, and of every absence or tardiness of
any member, ina book provided for that purpose by
the citv, which rolls or record books are always to be
subject to the order of the Board of Engineers, and the
Mayor and Aldermen. They shall also make, or cause
to be made to the Chief Engineer, true and accurate re  ORDINANCES.

turns of all the members of their respective companies,
and the apparatus intrusted to their care, whenever called upon so to do.

Sro.  It shall be the duty of the officers and
members of the several engine, hose, and hook and ladder companies, whenever fire shall break out in the
city, to repair forthwith to their respective engines, hose,
hook and ladder carriages, and other apparatus, and to
convey them in an orderly manner to or near the place
where the fire may be, in conformity with the directions
of the chief or other engineer; to exert themselves in
an orderly manner in working and managing said engines, hose, hooks and ladders, and other apparatus, and
in performing any other duty they may be called upon to
do by any engineer and upon permission of the chief,
or other engineer, shall in an orderly and quiet manner,
return said engines, hose, hook and ladder carriages,
and other apparatus to their respective places of deposit; provided that in the absence of all the engineers
such direction and permission may be given by their respective foremen.

SEo.  Every member of the fire department when
on duty, shall wear suitable badge, furnished by the
company to which he belongs.

Src.  Any officer or member of the fire department, except the chief and assistant engineers, who shall
 willfully neglect or refuse to perform his duty, or who
shall be guilty of disorderly conduct or disobedience to
his superiors in office; shall for such offence, on written
complaint of the Board of Engineers, be dismissed or
suspended from the department by the Mayor and Aldermen.

SEc.  No engine, hose, or hook and ladder carriage, shall be taken to fire out of the city, without
permission of an engineer, nor shall any apparatus of
the fire department, be taken from the city other than to
a fire, without permission from the board of Mayor and
Aldermen.

ORDINANCES.  
SEO.  The companies belonging to the fire department of the city of Holyoke, shall parade for exercise
and inspection, at such times and places as the Chief Engineer shall appoint, not exding twice in each year.
SEC.  Once in three months, viz., on the first Monday of March, June, September, and December respec tively, the clerk of each company upon blanks furnish- ,
ed by the board of engineers, shall make roll bearing
the full name, occupation, age and residence of each
member of said company, specifying also the number of
times the company has been called out, and the number —
of hours of attendance of the members respectively to
which roll shall be appended the following certificate,
viz.: ‘‘We, the undersigned, do hereby certify, that according to the best of our knowledge and belief, the foregoing persons are members of———,, and that said company has consisted of———members during the last
three months; that during that time they have resided
in Holyoke have performed all the duties incumbent
upon them as firemen have been present at every turnout of the company, or duly excused for non attendance,
and are entitled to all the privileges and pay of firemen,
for the time set down in the above roll.’”? Which certificate shall be signed by the foreman and clerk respectively, and immediately delivered to the Chief Engineer.
SEC.  Within ten days after the receipt of the
above rolls by the Chief Engineer, the Board of Engineers shall meet and examine the same, and if found to
be correct and approved by majority of the Board,
they shall be so certified together with the amount due to
each company, by the Chief Engineer, and immediately
handed over to the Mayor and Aldermen, who, within
twenty days thereafter, shall also examine the same and
draw orders for the’ quarterly payment upon the city
treasurer, provided, however, if upon examination of
the rolls by the Mayor and Aldermen, it shall appear to
them that the same are erroneous, they shall have authority to withhold the sum certified or such part thereof

  ORDINANCES.
as shall appear to them just and reasonable, under these
tules and regulations. |

Sro.  The salary of the Chief Engineer shall be

, two hundred dollars, and of each Assistant Engineer,
fifty dollars, payable semi-annually. ae

Src.  There shall be appropriated to the fire department, in the manner hereinafter provided, the fol- 
lowing sums per year, viz.: To each engineman on
steamer, two hundred dollars, and each fireman one
hundred and fifty dollars to each officer and member
of the several companies, fifty cents per hour, for each
hour on duty at fires, and thirty-five cents per hour, for
each hour while on duty at meetings or reviews. 

Src.  The members of the respective companies
shall not assemble in the house in which the engine or
other apparatus intrusted to said company is deposited,
on the Sabbath day, or the evening thereof, or on the
evening of any other day of the week after ten o’clock |
at night, except it be in the performance of some duty
of the department. ,

SEo.  No intoxicating liquors of any kind shall
be carried into any of the houses used by the department, nor shall any gambling be permitted therein.
Src.  No bill or charge for intoxicating liquors
furnished at fires shall be approved by the committee
on fire department, or paid by the city nor for refresh. ments furnished to any persons other than members of
the fire department.
 Sxo.  The sum allowed to officers and members of
each company, shall be paid quarterly to the order of
the treasurer of the company, for the use of the members and company. |

Sxo.  An ordinance entitled,’.‘‘ An ordinance to.
establish fire department in the City of Holyoke,’’
passed to be ordained on the nineteenth day of January,
A. D.. and an ordinance entitled, ‘‘.An ordinance

ORDINANCES.  
amending an ordinance to establish fire department in
the City of Holyoke,’”’ passed to be ordained on the  d
| day of March, A. D.  are hereby repealed.
, In Common Council, June 
Passed to be ordained. |
C. H. Hy Woop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, June .
Passed to be ordained.
| W. B. C. PEARsons, Mayor. ;

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANOE IN RELATION To CITY ENGINEER.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SroTion  There shall be chosen annually by concurrent vote of the two branches of the City Council, a
City Engineer. He shall hold his office until his suc- .
cessor is appointed, unless sooner removed. He may be
removed at the pleasure of the City Council, and the vacancy filled at any time for the unexpired term. He
shall receive such compensation as the City Council may
from time to time determine.

SEo.  Said engineer shall perform all such services

) for the City of Holyoke, as properly come under the
direction of Civil Engineer, and shall be consulted on
all important matters relating to public improvements of
every kind where the advice of any engineer would be
of service. He shall take charge of all such structures
and public works of the city, as the City Council or any
Committee of the City Council, or of either branch, may
direct, and under their direction he shall prepare all
plans and specifications for such structures, and shall
prepare or cause to be prepared by the City Solicitor,
or otherwise, all contracts for the same. He shall measure, or cause to be measured, when required by any
Committee of the City Council, or of either branch thereORDINANCES.  
of, all work done by contract for the city, and shall certify to the same. Heshall be the custodian of all city
plans belonging to his department, including all plans
and surveys relating to the laying out, widening, extending and grading of streets, and the establishment of
correct lines.

Src.  He may employ such assistance as shall be
necessary to perform the services which may be re-.
quired of him, and shall be held responsible for the do. ings of said assistants. :

Sro.  Said engineer shall make annually, or oftener
if required, careful examination of all bridges within
the city limits, and make such reports respecting their
condition, as to their safety, need of renewals or repairs,

' as the exigencies of the case may require, and shall
keep record of the grade and width of all streets and
sidewalks hereafter established.

Sxo.  Said engineer shall annually on or before
the first day of January, present to the City Council, a
report in relation to his department for the fiscal year
next preceding, showing the number of persons employed, the expenses of the department, the nature of the
work in process of construction, that come under his
supervision, or that have been completed during said
year, and such other general information in relation to
the same, he may deem expedient.

SEo.  It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to
give to all applicants so far as the files and records of his
office will permit, any information they may require as
to the lines and grades of streets on which their estates
may be situated, or upon which they intend to build,
and he may make such rules and regulations concern  ORDINANCES.
ing the taking of plans from his office as he may deem |
necessary to insure their safety.

In Common Council, July .

Passed to be ordained. |
C. H. Heywoop, President.
. In Board of Aldermen, July .
Passed to be ordained.
: W. B. C. Prkarsons, Mayor. |

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING THE COLLECTION OF
: TAXES.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows |

SEOTION  All persons or corporations who shall not
pay their taxes on or before the tenth day of September
in each year, shall be liable to pay interest thereon from
said tenth day of September, at the rate of twelve per

; cent. per annum, and the Collector is hereby authorized
to collect the same, and keep anaccount of all sums collected as interest in addition to the taxes, and pay the .
same into the Treasury. But it shall be the duty of
the Collector to enforce payment of any tax at any time
after the taxes shall have been committed to him whenever the Assessors shall order him so to do, or whenever
in his opinion, said tax may not be paid by the party

] taxed, either in consequence of the intended removal of
said party from the city, or from any other circumstances.

Sro.  The Collector shall be provided with an
office by the City Council, which office shall be kept
open from two o’clock to five o’clock, and from seven to
nine o’clock, Pp. M., of each day, (Sundays excepted,)
from the first day of September to the tenth day of October. The Collector may fix office hours for the reception of taxes the remainder of the year.

  ORDINANCES.

Szc.  The Collector of taxes for the City of Holyoke
is hereby authorized to use all means of collecting taxes
which Town Treasurer when appointed Collector, may
use.

In Common Council, August .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. HEywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, August .

Passed to be ordained.

W. B. C. PEaRsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN ADDITION TO AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO THE POLICE. ;
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

’ SEotion  The office of any member of the Police
force shall become vacant whenever the said member
ceases to reside within the limits of said city.

Src.  No person while employed as regular member of the Police forcé, or as an officer of the same, shall
engage directly or indirectly in any other occupation for
pay, hire, reward or compensation of any kind whatsoever, and every Policeman or officer of the Police shall
pay into the City Treasury monthly, all money received
as fees on warrants or witness fees, and shall take from
the City Treasurer receipt therefor and any officer or
policeman who shall neglect for more than three months
after receiving such fees, to pay over the full amount so —
received to the Treasurer of the city, shall be dismissed
from the force.

Src.  Every member of the force who shall, while
on duty, enter any bawdy or otherwise disorderly house
except on duty, shall be removed from his place in the
Police Department, and be ineligible to re-appointment
for the term of one year.

Srxo.  The compensation of the Chief of Police

  ORDINANCES.

. Shall be at the rate of eleven hundred dollars per year,
and of each policeman shall be at the rate of nine hundred dollars year.

The above ordinance to take effect on its passage.
In Common Council, August .
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, August .
Passed to be ordained. ,
W. B. C. Prarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.

AN ORDINANCE TO ACCEPT AND ADOPT CERTAIN

STATUTES. |
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SECTION  Sections six, seven, eight, nine, ten and
twelve of chapter nineteen sections seven and eight of
chapter forty-five section nine, of chapter forty-six ;
sections three, four, five and six, of chapter forty-eight;
sections seventy-two, seventy-three, seventy-four and
seventy-five, of chapter forty-nine; sections one, two,
three, four and five, of chapter eighty-seven sections
thirty-three to forty, inclusive of chapter eighty-eight
of the General Statutes of this commonwealth chapter
seventy-four of the general laws of eighteen hundred
sixty-two chapter one hundred seventy-nine of the
general laws of eighteen hundred sixty-three chapter
two hundred forty-two of- the general laws of eighteen
hundred sixty-seven chapter one hundred and eleven

of the general laws of eighteen hundred sixty-nine ;
chapter three hundred and three of the general laws of
eighteen hundred seventy-two, are hereby accepted and
adopted.
| In Common Council, August .
Passed to be ordained.
| C. H. Hkywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

W.  B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE CONCERNING THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SECTION  The Mayor and Aldermen for the time
being, are hereby appointed and constituted the Board
of Health, and shall have power to carry into execution
all laws of the commonwealth and ordinances of the
City Council, made for the preservation of the health of
the inhabitants of the city.

SEc.  The Chief of Police shall, subject always to
the discretion, authority and control of the Mayor, carry
into execution, all the ordinances and rules made by the
City Council, and all rules made by the Board of
Health, relative to causes of sickness, nuisance and
sources of filth that may be injurious to health, or may
affect the comfort of the inhabitants of the city, existing within the limits thereof, and shall cause all such
nuisances, sources of filth and causes of sickness to be

. removed or prevented, as the case may require, conformably to such ordinances and rules, and the laws of the
commonwealth. .

Src.  Every tenement in the city used as dwelling house, shall be furnished when it can be done with- ;
out unreasonable expense, with sufficient drain to
carry off the waste water into common sewer or reservoir, which drain or reservoir shall be under ground,

ORDINANCES.  
and no person shall suffer any waste or stagnant water
to remain in any cellar or on any lot of land or vacant
ground, occupied or owned by him, so as to become a
nuisance, or offensive or dangerous to the public health.

Src.  Every tenement in the city used as dwelling house, shall be furnished with sufficient watercloset or with privy, the vault of which shall be underground and of sufficient capacity, regard being had
to the number of persons occupying said tenement.
Every such vault shall be so constructed that the con| tents thereof shall in no case escape therefrom, or ooze
out upon the adjoining grounds, nor shall the contents
of any such vault be suffered to remain within less than
eight inches of the even surface of the ground.

SEo.  The owner or occupant of any tenement
which shall be used as dwelling house, without being
furnished with sufficient water-closet, or with privy
and vault as provided in the preceding section, shall forfeit and pay sum not exding twenty dollars for each
and every week, during which, such tenement or any
part thereof shall be so used after the owner or occupant of such tenement has been duly notified by the
Board of Health, and the owner or occupant has had a
reasonable time to construct privy or vault as required
by the Board of Health.

Src.  No privy shall be used without vault, and
the vaults of all privies hereafter constructed, shall be
so constructed that the inside thereof shall be not less
than two feet distant from the line of every adjoining
lot of land, unless with the consent of the owner of such

, adjoining lot, and also shall not project into any street,
lane, alley, court, public place and private way in the
city. )

Sro. Any person who shall hereafter construct,
maintain or keep for use, vault or privy hereafter constructed contrary to the provisions of the preceding section, shall forfeit sum not exding twenty dollars

  ORDINANCES.
for each and every week during which such vault or
privy so constructed shall be used.

SEo.  Whenever any vault, privy or drain, shall
become offensive, or obstructed, the owner, agent, occupant or other person having charge of the land in which
said vault, privy or drain may be situated, shall clear,
cleanse, alter, amend or repair the same, within such
reasonable time after notice in writing to that effect
given by the Board of Health, as shall be expressed in
such notice. In case of neglect or refusal so to do, said
Board may cause the same to be cleared, cleansed,
altered, amended or repaired as they may deem expedient, at the expense of the owner, agent, occupant or
other person as aforesaid, but no vault shall be opened
for the purpose of being cleansed, between the twentieth
day of June and the first day of October in each year, |
except by the special permission of the Chief of Police;
nor in any instance between the hours of four o’clock
in the morning and ten o’clock at night; nor in any
other mode, or at any other time, than said Chief of
Police shall direct and appoint, conformable to the ordinances of the city, and to such regulations as the
Mayor and Aldermen shall, from time to time make on
this subject, and always at the expense of the owner,
agent, occupant or other person having charge of the
tenement in which such vault is situated. All applications for opening and cleansing vaults shall receive attention in the order in which they are made. The Mayor and Aldermen shall, from time to time determine the
sum to be paid by persons who shall make such applications provided, that any individual or corporation,
who shall certify in writing to the Chief of Police, that
the vaults owned by them, or under their control, have
been properly cleansed since April  st of the current
year, such individuals or corporations, so notifying,
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section, beginning with, and following the words, ‘‘ but no vault
shall be opened, etc.”’

ORDINANCES.  

Src.  No person shall empty vault or privy contrary to the provisions of the preceding section.

Sto.  No owner or occupant of any land in which
any vault may be situated, shall neglect or refuse to
cleanse the same, after being notified by the Mayor and
Aldermen or Chief of Police, that the same has become
offensive. |

Sec.  When the Board of Health shall be satisfied that any building is not furnished with sufficient
drain, privy and vault, or either of them, they may
give notice in writing to the person having the care of
such building, whether as owner or agent, if known,
and if either of them be resident within the city, and if
otherwise, public notice may be given by posting such
notice on the premises and publishing the same in some
newspaper published and circulated in the city, requiring that suitable drain, privy and vault, or either of
them, be constructed within such time as they shall appoint for the use of such building, and in case such

requisition be not complied with, the Board may cause
such drain, privy and vault, or either of them, to be
constructed, the expense of which shall be paid by such
owner or agent. ,

SEo.  No person shall drive, or cause to be driven, any cart or wagon containing night soil, or any
wagon or cart used for that purpose, through any street,
lane or alley in the city, between the hours of four
o’clock, A. M. and nine o'clock, P. M.; nor permit any
such wagon or cart to stand, between said hours, in any
street, lane or alley in said city.

SEo.  No person shall bring into the city for sale,
or offer for sale, any diseased, putrid, stale or unwholsome meat, fish or other provisions.

Sro.  All house-dirt, filth, rubbish and waste
matter collected in any part of the city, which may be a
nuisance, source of filth or cause of sickness, shall, at
the order of the Mayor, be removed by the Chief of Po  ORDINANCES.
lice therefrom, at the expense of the owner or occupant
of the place where such cause of offense may be, unless
such owner or occupant shall remove the same within
twenty-four hours after being ordered so to do by the
Mayor in writing, and notice of such order duly served
upon him. The Chief of Police, when thereto ordered
by the Mayor, shall at any time between sunrise and
sunset, enter into any building or other place in the city,
for the purpose of examining into, destroying, remov ing or preventing any nuisance, source of filth or cause
| of sickness therein, and in case such entrance be opposed, he shall make known ‘such opposition to the
Board of Health, in order that warrant may be obtained to enforce the same as provided by law.

Src.  Whenever the Board of Health shall find
that the number of persons occupying any tenement is
so great as to be cause of nuisance, or sickness, or
source of filth, the Board may cause all or any persons

. occupying such tenement, to be removed therefrom, first
giving them notice in writing to remove, and allowing .
them the space of at least forty-eight hours in which to
comply with such notice.

Src.  The city physician shall attend, under the
general directions of the overseers of the poor, upon all
sick paupers and patients under the care of the city authorities, at the almshouse or elsewhere, within the limits of the city shall render all services by law incumbent upon the physicians appointed by the Board of
Health, and shall report annually, in January, to the
City Council, list of deaths of the previous year, stating the age, sex, and disease of the person deceased. In
case of alarm of any infectious or contagious disease,
the city physician shall give to either branch of the City
Council, or any Committee thereof, all such professional advice and ‘counsel as they may request of him ;
shall vaccinatejall scholars’of the public schools that
may be sent to him by the School Committee for that
purpose, and generally perform such other professional

ORDINANCES.  
services  may reasonably be required of him by the
Board of Health, or either Board of the City Council. SEO.  Whenever case of small-pox or varioloid
shall occur within the city, the occupant where such
case may occur shall report the same to the Board of
Health or Chief of Police forthwith, and shall also restrain all children belonging to the premises from attending school or going at large until all danger from
contagion has subsided.

Sko.  The Chief of Police shall cause red flag
to be displayed from conspicuous part of any building in which case of small-pox or varioloid is known
to exist, until he has reason to believe such disease is
removed and no person or persons shall remove said
flag, unless by permission of the Chief of Police or city
physician.

Sec.  Every physician in the city shall make
known to the Board of Health or Chief of Police, all
cases of small-pox or varioloid, and all other conta. gious diseases that may come to his knowledge, within
six hours after learning the existence of the same.

SEO.  No child shall be admitted into any public
school in this city, until said child shall produce certificate from physician, or such evidence as shall be
satisfactory to the School Committee of having been
successfully vaccinated.

SEo.  Any person who shall offend against any
of the provisions of the sixteenth, seventeenth and
eighteenth sections of this ordinance, shall forfeit and
pay foreach and every offense; sum ‘not less than
five dollars nor more than twenty-five dollars.

Src.  The Mayor and Aldermen are authorized
to prohibit the keeping of swine and goats in any part
or parts of the city, where they shall deem that the
keeping of such animals, would be detrimental to the
health or comfort of the citizens in the neighborhood
thereof residing or passing, and shall have power to re  ORDINANCES.

move or cause to be removed, any swine or goats from
‘any place where the keeping of such animals is prohibited.

SEo.  No person shall Keep any swine or goats in
any place in said city, in which the keeping of said animals is prohibited, or from which he is required to remove the same, twenty-four hours after having received
notice in writing from the Board of Health to remove
the same, or that such animals are prohibited from being kept in such place; and whoever offends against
the provisions of this section, shall forfeit and pay a
penalty not exding twenty dollars for each offense.

Sto.  No person shall go about, in or through
any of the streets, squares or highways of the city, collecting or carrying away swill, or offal unless duly authorized or licensed by the Mayor and Aldermen, and
all offal or swill so collected and carried as before provided shall be put and carried in close covered cart,
box or other tight vessel, and shall be taken away and
removed not less than three times week between the
first days of April and November in each year, and
not less than twice week between the first day of November and the first day of April next sucding.

SEo.  The Mayor shall cause all persons who
persistently violate or disobey the laws of the commonwealth, or the rules, orders, by-laws, or ordinances for
the preservation of the health of the city which are now
in force, or which shall hereafter be made by lawful authority, to be forthwith prosecuted and punished.

SEc.  Whoever shall offend against or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this ordinance, (unless
otherwise provided herein, shall forfeit and pay penalty of not more than twenty dollars for each offense.

Sto.  It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
to keep an exact and true account of all costs, outlays
and expenses, that may be incurred in carrying into effect any of the purposes and provisions set forth or conORDINANCES.  
tained in this ordinance, and without delay report the
same to the City Treasurer, with the names of the various persons to whom they may be chargeable, and the
proportion or amount to be paid by each person; and |
the Treasurer shall examine, correct and charge the
same in his books, and without delay make out bills
therefor, and collect the same under the direction of the
City Council.

SEo.  The City Clerk shall keep record of the
prodings of the Mayor and Aldermen when acting
as Board of Health.

In Common Council, August .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, August .

Passed to be ordained. |
W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE. |.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four. AN ORDINANCE CONCERNING THE KEEPING OF GUNPOWDER.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

 Srotion  No person shall keep or deposit any gunpowder within the limits of the city“of Holyoke, unless
it is well secured in tight casks or canisters.

Src.  No person shall keep or deposit more than
fifty pounds of gunpowder in any shop, store or other
building in said city, which is within the distance of
twenty-five rods from any other building.

Src.  No person shall keep or deposit: more than

: twenty-five pounds of gunpowder in any shop, store or
other building in said city, which is within the distance
of ten rods from any other building.

Sec.  Noperson shall keep or deposit more than
one pound of gunpowder’ in any shop, store or other
building in said city, which is within the distance of ten
rods from any other building unless it is well secured in
metallic canisters, holding (not more’ than, five pounds
each, and closed by air-tight metallic covers. |

SEC.  Any person who shall offend against any of
the provisions of this ordinance shall, upon conviction,
forfeit and pay for each and every offense, sum not exding twenty dollars.

ORDINANCES.  
SEc.  The provisions of this ordinance shall not
apply or extend to the keeping or storing of metallic
cartridges in fire-proof magazines, nor to cartridge manufacturers, so long as they shall keep their powder in
- canisters, as described in section four, and in fire-proof
magazines located and built to the satisfaction of the
Mayor and Aldermen, and allow no more than one hundred pounds of gunpowder in any magazine, or five
pounds of gunpowder not made into cartridges to be in
any workshop at any one time.
In Common Council, Sept. .
Passed to be ordained.
| C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .
Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE IN RELATION TO PAWNBROKERS.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SrzoTion  No person shall carry on the business
of pawnbroker in this city unless he is duly licensed
therefor by the Mayor and Aldermen.

Sro.  Every person carrying on said business shall
keep book in which he shall record at the time of receiving any article as pawn, description of the article so received, the name, age and residence of the person from whom, and the day and hour when he go received it; and that book shall at all times be open to the
inspection of the Mayor or of any person authorized by

, the Mayor and Aldermen to make such examination.

Src.  No pawnbroker shall, directly or indirectly,
receive any article in pawn of any minor or apprentice, —
knowing or having reason to believe him to be such. |
All articles taken or held by any pawnbroker shall be
exhibited to the Mayor, or to any person authorized by
the Mayor and Aldermen to make such examination,
whenever demand shall be made by either of them for
such exhibition. |

Szro.  All licenses granted under this ordinance
shall designate the place where the person licensed may
carry on his business; and he shall not engage in or

ORDINANCES.  
carry on his business under his license in any other
place than the one so designated and all the provisions
of this ordinance shall be incorporated into every
license granted under it.

SEo.  Any person offending against either of the
provisions of this ordinance shall forfeit sum. not exding fifty dollars for each offense.

In Common Council, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. Hkywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

W. B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE DEFINING THE DUTIES OF CERTAIN
CoMMITTEES.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

Srotion  The Joint Standing Committee on city
property shall have the care and custody of all the public property, except as is otherwise provided by law or

ordinance, and shall provide all the labor, and purchase
all the materials necessary for repairing the same, and
shall superintend all the repairs thereof; provided, that
no expenditure, exding five hundred dollars, shall at
any time be made in the alteration or repairs of any
building, without vote of the City Council expressly
authorizing the same.

SEo.  All questions relating to the subject of laying out, accepting, altering, or discontinuing any street
or way, or laying out, establishing, constructing or repairing any sidewalks or building, or repairing any
bridge shall, at some stage before final passage, be investigated and reported upon by the Joint Standing
Committee on highways, sidewalks and bridges.

SEO.  The Joint Standing Committee on sewers and
drains shall investigate and report upon all questions
relating to the subject of laying out, constructing, maintaining and repairing any sewer or drain.

Src.  The Joint Standing Committee on fuel and

ORDINANCES.  
street lights shall purchase all the fuel necessary for use
in all the public buildings in the city.

Src.  The Joint Standing Committee on education
shall consider and report upon all questions relating to
the public schools, excepting supplying fuel, building,
repairing or furnishing school buildings.

SEo.  All claims against the city for damages done
to person or property, shall be referred to the Joint
Standing Committee on claims, also all other accounts
and claims which for want of the certificate mentioned
in section third, of the ‘‘ ordinance to establish system
of accountability in the expenditures of the city,’ cannot be received by the Committee on accounts, shall be
referred to said Committee on claims.

Seo.  The Joint Standing Committee on City Engineering shall have the care and supervision of the City
Engineer's office, and the appointment and discharge of
all persons employed therein not otherwise provided for,
and of such assistants as shall be necessary to perform
the services which may be required of him, shall be
with their approval, and they shall fix the amount of

compensation to be paid to said employes respectively ;
provided, that the same shall notin the aggregate exd the sum appropriated therefor by the City Council.

Sro.  It shall be the duty of the Joint Standing
Committee on printing, to contract for the city printing ;
to see that the work performed, and the materials furnished, are in conformity with the terms of the contract,
and to approve all bills for printing provided, said
Committee shall make no contract for printing which
shall exd two hundred dollars in amount, without
first obtaining authority therefor from the City Council.

Src.  The Standing Committee of the Board of
Mayor and Aldermen on Police shall consider and report upon all questions relating to the Police force of
the city which are referred to this Committee, and shall
estimate and report upon the amount of money needed

  ORDINANCES.
for the maintenance of the force annually on or before
the twentieth day of February.

Serco.  The Committee on Elections and Returns
shall immediately after the appointment of the Standing Committees, at the meeting for organization receive
the certificates of election of the members, examine
them, and report the result without unnecessary delay ;
and whenever any person is elected to fill vacancy, the
Committee of that branch of the City Council in which
the vacancy occurs, shall examine his certificate of elec- ,
tion and report as above provided.

In Common Council, Sept. 
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .
Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four. ,
AN ORDINANCE FoR LAYING OUT STREETS.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SEcTION  No street, highway or town-way shall be

laid out, altered or discontinued in the city of Holyoke,

- except upon petition therefor, and unless seven days at

least previous thereto, the Board of Aldermen shall

cause written notice of their intention to lay out, alter

or discontinue the same, to be left at the last and usual

place of abode of the owners of the land over or

through which such way is proposed to be laid out,

, altered or discontinued, or unless such notice shall be

delivered to such owner in person, or to his tenant or

authorized agent provided, that if the owner shall have

no known place of abode in the city, and. no tenant or

agent therein known to the Mayor and Aldermen, then

such notice shall be posted up in some public place

in the city seven days at least before laying out, altering, or discontinuing of such way. Said notice shall

, state the time and place appointed by the Board of Aldermen for meeting and hearing the parties ,interested
therein.

‘ So.  At the time and place appointed, the Board

of Aldermen shall meet and prod to view the premises, and hear all interested persons claiming to be

  ORDINANCES.

heard, and the Mayor and Aldermen may thereupon, if
they shall adjudge that the public convenience and necessity require it to be done, prod to lay out, alter or
discontinue said street or highway, and shall determine
what damages, if any, are sustained by any persons in
their property by the laying out, altering or discontinuing of such way or road, and the amount of compensation they shall severally receive. And said Mayor and
Aldermen shall fix the boundaries, admeasurements
and grade of said proposed street or way and shall report their action to the Common Council.
 Src.  No street, town-way or private-way which
may be laid out, altered or discontinued by the Mayor
and Aldermen, shall be established -until such laying
out, alteration or discontinuance with the boundaries,
admeasurements and grade of said way, and also the
amount of damages which said Mayor and Aldermen
shall determine, has been sustained by any persons in
their property, by such laying out, alteration or discontinuance shall have been reported to the Common Council, and accepted and allowed at regular meeting
. thereof nor unless the decree or order for laying out,
altering or discontinuing of such street, or way, with its
boundaries and admeasurements, shall have been filed
in the office of the City Clerk seven days, at least, be fore such meeting of the Common Council. |
SEC.  No street or town-way shall hereafter be
opened in the city of less width than fifty feet, except
with the consent of the Mayor and Aldermen in writing
first had and obtained for that purpose, and no person
 shall open private street into any public street of the
city until the grade of such private street has been fixed
and established by the Mayor and Aldermen the expense of fixing the grade to be paid by the party applyORDINANCES.  
ing to open the street, and the City Council reserving
- the right to close the same when unsafe or inconvenient
for travelers.
| In Common Council, Sept. .
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Heywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .
Passed to be ordained. |
: W. B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE CONCERNING THE MANNER OF LAYING
OUT AND CONSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SECTION  The Mayor and Aldermen may cause
sidewalks to be graded and constructed in any street
of the city, as the public convenience may require, with
or without edge stones, as may be deemed expedient,
and cover the same with appropriate material and assess
upon the abutters on such sidewalks in just proportion, one-half the expense of the same.

Src.  No sidewalk shall be laid out or established
unless the question of laying out and establishing such .
sidewalk shall have first been investigated and reported
upon by Committee of the Board of Mayor and Aldermen.

Src.  The Board of Mayor and Aldermen before
deciding upon the propriety or expediency of laying
out and constructing or repairing any sidewalk, shall
cause notice of the time and place of the hearing of
all parties interested in said sidewalk, to be given to the
several owners of estates abutting upon the proposed
sidewalk, by the Chief of Police. Said notice shall be
served seven days at least before the time of said hearing, by leaving an attested copy thereof at the usual

ORDINANCES.  
place of abode of said owners, or delivering the same
personally to such owner, or the tenant or authorized
agent of such owner, and if the owner or owners have
no such place of abode in the city, and no tenant or authorized agent in the city known to the officer serving
said notice, or if being resident, he should not be
known as such by said officer, then such copy shall be
posted on or near the land of such owner abutting upon
such proposed sidewalk, seven days, at least, before the
time of said hearing and said officer shall, before the
time appointed for the hearing, deposit the original —
notices with the returns of his doings thereon with the
City Clerk, who shall file and preserve them for future
reference. |
Sc.  Whenever the Board of Mayor and Aldermen shall decide in favor of laying out, establishing and
constructing or repairing any sidewalk, they shall cause
all necessary surveys and plans to be made, fixing the
height, width and grades of said sidewalk, and shall
also determine the materials of which the same shall be
constructed or repaired.

Sro.  Whenever it shall be necessary for the May-.
or and Aldermen to cause any sidewalk to be constructed as before provided, or to be repaired, the same shall
be done under the direction of the Committee of the
Board having that matter in charge. And said Committee shall cause an exact account to be kept of all expenses and outlays required or incurred by them in
building or repairing such sidewalk, and he shall report
the same in writing within thirty days from the completion of said sidewalk, to the Board of Mayor and
Aldermen.

Src.  Whenever any abutter on any street in this
city shall hereafter give notice in writing to the Board
of Mayor and Aldermen of his or her determination to
pave with brick or stone the sidewalk in front of his or
her premises, and agreeing so to do in consideration of

  ORDINANCES.
the furnishing of curbstones by the city as hereinafter
mentioned, and to keep such pavement in repair, free of
charge to the city, then it shall be the duty of the
Committee of said Board of Mayor and Aldermen, as
soon as convenient, to furnish to said abutter, at the expense of the city, rough-dressed curbstones of the following dimensions, to wit: .from sixteen to twenty-four
inches in depth, from four to seven inches in width at
the top, from four to seven inches on the face, and two
| inches return. Said stones shall be laid down under
the direction of said Committee, the abutter paying the
expense of laying the same. ,

Seo.  Should the abutter refuse or neglect to pave
with brick or stone, within ninety days from the time
the curbstones are laid down, then said Committee shall
cause the same to be removed, unless paid for immediately by the abutter.

Src.  Whenever any responsible parties shall give
notice in writing, to the Board of Mayor and Aldermen,
desiring that crossings or flagging-stones should be laid
across any street, public place or square, and shall in
writing, agree to defray one-half of the expense of such
crossings then the Mayor and Aldermen, may if they
deem proper, order said Committee to furnish and lay
down such stones as may be suitable, according to the
application, and the remainder of the cost thereof shall
be paid by the city.

In Common Council, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

: W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE REVISING THE WARDS OF THE CITY.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Hol: yoke, as follows :

The City of Holyoke is hereby divided into seven
Wards, described as follows, viz.: —Ward No. Beginning at the head-gates of the upper
level canal, thence following the line of the upper level
canal until it intersects with the centre line of Hampden
street produced to said canal, thence easterly in a
straight line to the intersection of Mosher street with
Crescent street, thence easterly on Mosher street to its
intersection with Bowers street, thence southerly on
Bowers street to Dwight street, thence southeasterly on 
Dwight street in direct line to Connecticut river, thence
northerly by said river to the place of beginning.

Ward No.  Beginning at the intersection of the centre line of Hampden street produced with the upper level
canal, thence easterly in straight line to the intersection of Mosher and Crescent streets, thence easterly on |
Mosher street to Bowers street, thence southerly on
Bowers street to Dwight street, thence southeasterly on
Dwight street to Connecticut river, thence southerly by
said river to the overfall of the third level canal, thence
westerly by said overfall to the third level canal, thence
northeasterly by said third level canal to its intersection
with Hamilton street, thence westerly by Hamilton .

  ORDINANCES.

street to the second level canal, thence in straight line
to the intersection of the upper level canal with the centre line of Hampshire street produced to said upper
level canal, thence northerly by said upper level canal
to the place of beginning.

Ward No.  Beginning at the intersection of the
upper level canal, with the centre line of Hampshire
street produced to said canal, thence running southwesterly by the west line of said upper level canal produced

- until it intersects with the lower or meadow road leading to West Springfield, thence by said road to the
south line of the city, thence easterly by said line to the
Connecticut river, thence northerly by said river to the
overfall of the third level canal, thence westerly by the
overfall to third level canal, thence northerly by third —
level canal to Hamilton street, thence westerly by Hamilton street, and the line of Hamilton street produced, to
the place of beginning. |

Ward No.  Comprises all that portion of the city
bounded southwesterly by Hampden street, northwesterly by Maple street, Cedar street, and the line of said
streets produced, northwesterly to the upper level canal,

northeasterly and southeasterly by the said upper level
canal.

| Ward No.  Comprises all that portion of the city
bounded southeasterly by Maple street, Cedar street and
the line of said streets produced northeasterly to the
upper level canal, southwesterly by Hampden street and
the county road, westerly by the centre line of Thorpe
street produced, northerly to Connecticut river and
northerly by the Connecticut river.

Ward No.  Beginning at the intersection of the
upper level canal with the line of Hampden street produced easterly by said’ canal, thence running westerly
on said Hampden street andthe ‘county road to Thorpe
street, thence southerly on said Thorpe street and the
centre line of Thorpe street produced, southerly to

ORDINANCES.  
Beach street, thence southwesterly on said Beach street —
to Norfolk street, thence on said Norfolk street to the
upper level canal, thence northeasterly on said upper
level canal to the place of beginning.

Ward No.  This Ward. is hereby described as embracing all that portion of the city lying westerly and
southerly of the Wards hereinbefore described.

In Common Council, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. HEywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

, W. B. C. Prarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE PRovipiInGc Rooms FoR WARD MEETINGS.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :

SEoTion  The several Wards in the city of Holyoke shall hereafter hold their meetings for municipal
purposes in the places hereinafter named, viz. :

Ward No.  In the Race street engine house.

Ward No.  In Parsons Hall.

Ward No.  In the Main street engine house.

Ward No.  In Union Hall. —

- Ward No.  In the Chestnut street school house. .
: Ward No.  In the High street engine house.

Ward No.  In the school house at Baptist Village.

Src.  In case there shall arise anything to prevent
the use of any place mentioned in the first section for
holding said meetings, the Mayor and Aldermen are
authorized to appoint, in the warrant for calling any
meeting, the place at which said meeting shall be held. |

In Common Council, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained.

| C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .

Passed to be ordained. :

W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four.
AN ORDINANCE CONTAINING GENERAL PROVISIONS.
.Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :
SEoTION.  When any ordinance repealing former ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself re, pealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive
such former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it
shall be therein so expressly provided.
SEC.  Whoever violates any law or ordinance of
| the city of Holyoke shall, unless where different provision is made by such law or ordinance, or by the laws of
the commonwealth, forfeit and pay to the use of said
city, sum not exding twenty dollars.
Src.  Every city officer of the city of Holyoke, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his
office, shall be sworn to the faithful performance thereof, and shall give such bonds as the Mayor and Aldermen may from time to time require.
In Common Council, Sept. .
Passed to be ordained.
C. H. Hkywoop, President.
, In Board of Aldermen, Sept. .
Passed to be ordained.
W. B. C. Pearsons, Mayor.

{  fersons having sins against the {it

It is very desirable that bills presented for payment should
specify what the article or articles were for—and when for labor where it was performed—with proper dates.

If persons having bills against the City would be more careful in specifying particulars, it would enable the Auditor to
prepare his Annual Report with much less trouble.

——: :——

All bills against the City should be made out to include the
last day of the month, and presented to the Auditor on or before
the first day of the following month, and be payable the first
Wednesday after the first Thursday.

Items charged to different appropriations should be made on
separate bills.

All bills not presented as above will lie over until the next
month.

EK. A. RAMSAY, Auprror.

Office, Hutchins’ Block, corner High and Hampden Streets.
Office Hours from a. mM. to p. M., and from to o’clock,
P.M.


Digitized by Google

  :

'

t

 

s .
‘ |
.
‘
(
,
,
  e
Ly
eo
‘
‘
’
e

. }
t .
. :
x ;
: Digitized by Google

i  ae ne NS
  if ,
.
t
| .
\
’
i
|
|
e

 d
|
!
|
I
 
‘ |
|
: |
| |
:
. '

  |
ii
.


