  Report of Board of Health.

and certificates of vaccination insisted upon in all such
cases. Weare glad to state that great step forward
has been taken during the past year in providing for the
isolation and care of all cases of infectious diseases.
Under special appropriation generously granted by the
city government, purchase was made of acres of
land at West Holyoke, and immediate steps taken to
erect thereon suitable building. This work is now in ,
progress, the details of which are herewith submitted
from the architect's report:

‘‘The new hospital for the treatment of infectious diseases is now in rapid course of construction and well
on tuwards completion. It is sitnated in West Holyoke,
on what was called the ‘‘Doody Farm,” recently purchased by the Board of Health for this purpose, and also
asa considerable portion for poor farm which is at
present needed and which in the near future will become
an imperative necessity, in handling the city poor, both
as to good management and economy of treatment. The
hospital is located on the westerly side of Jarvis avenue,
which runs from County Road leading from near Craft's
tavern to Easthampton, at the turn westerly near Mr.
Wilson’s house, and thence westerly and southerly past
the location of hospital and Jarvis farm till it merges
into Cherry lane, thereby giving access to the hospital
from north or south ends of the city, as may be most
convenient, and overa thoroughfare that runs at once
direct (about two and one-half miles from City Hall) and
unobtrusive, as the buildings or homes to be passed are
very few, and remote from the road, thus rendering the
transit of patients safe as to fact, and not objectionable
even in sentiment. The building is located some feet
from the highway, westerly, and about feet northerly
from the Jarvis house and one-half mile from any
other house), and the roof of same is just visible over
the tops of trees and brush surrounding it. Itis built

Report of Board of Health.  
on Knoll at the foot of the high hills to the immediate
west and north of it and is fifteen feet higher than the
immediate level land or alder swale which hides it from
the road. It is protected from the prevailing winter
winds by the well-wooded hills to the near west and
north of it and at the same time it is fully exposed to the
full force and play of the sun from its rise to its setting
and which will, on clear days, for some hours shine in
each room or ward in the building. The building is one
story in hight with an attic fit for general storage or
even use as ward. It consists of main building and
ell. The main building feet running nearly north
and south with the passage way five feet wide running
through center from front doorway at south end, giving
access to the six wards, three on each side, and connecting with cross hall four feet wide which runs east and
west between the main building and ell, and which has
a door with swinging transom at each end for light and
ventilation. The ell is feet, and is two feet lower
than the main building and contains kitchen at east
side where driveway first reaches building, and has a
pantry through which it connects with dining room, the
counterpart of kitchen, on west side of ell. cooking
range with water back and copper boiler of gallons
capacity, is placed in kitchen, and both kitchen and
dining room have each cast-steel sink, with pump
direct to well of best spring water underneath in cellar,
which is cased up with cement pipe inches in diameter to ten feet below cellar bottom in close sharp sand
and gravel, giving profusesupply of water six and onehalf feet deep, and reaching spout of pump with lift of
only feet. The cellar, which extends under the ell
only, is carefully cemented water-tight and is graded to
cesspool at bottom of which is trap on five-inch iron
frame with brass screws, cover or hand hole which in
case of accidental flow of water in cellar will fully take

  Report of Board of Health.

care of the same. The five-inch iron pipe runs from
under sinks to feet outside of buildings below surface
of cellar bottom with good pitch from which point it is
extended by feet of five-inch Akron salt glazed pipe
to stone filled soakage well in gravelly soil, and well
surrounded with plenty of shrub and tree growth.
The sink waste pipe is extended up into attic and thence
connected with heated flue near kitchen chimney
which answers no other purpose. ‘The dining room contains clothes closet with drawers, etc., and also has
stairs leading to attic and cellar. door under steps to
easterly entrance also gives access to the cellar. The
foundation walls up to grade are of native stone laid in
cement, also all inside foundation walls up to floor Joists.
The soil down to gravel first stript off under all of building side and space of two feet extends under allof main
building. The walls of all partitions of wards extending close down two feet below same. The spaces beneath
communicate with the outside air by means of vertical
slits in brickwork, and with each other by openings left
in masonry and also with cellar under ell, (in which the
steam boiler sets), through an opening into under central
passage, thereby utilizing any surplus or waste heat from
boiler and pipes which in this way will heat to considerable extent the main floors to hospital wards. All
walls, both outside and inside, are of brick laid in the
best manner, those outside having atwo-inch air space
between outer and inner bricks to prevent against dampness and also against changes of temperature. All inside
walls above bottom of floor timbers (which do not enter
walls,) are of solid brick, and all are to have the best of
plaster applied in three coat work direct to brick work
and perfectly smooth finish. floorsare to be double and
top floors are to be covered with linoleum (a non-absorbent, and easy to clean) laid over two thicknesses of asbestos lining paper both for cushion and for fire proofing to

Report of Board of Health.  
a great degree. All outside doorsare to be tin clad, also
all outside shutters to windows, which are to be hung
with heavy strap hinges to iron brick and fastened on
inside. Cellar windows are to have heavy wire nettings.
The roof is to be covered with slate, is one-third pitch,
is hipped, with gablets at ends of each ridge, with windows for both light and summer ventilation in same.
The inside wood finish is to be reduced to its lowest
terms, the least amount for utility to be used only, both
for sanitary and economical reasons and of less danger
from fire. The six wards in the building are alike in size
also as to manner of heating and ventilating, lighting
and accessibility. The three on easterly side of main
hall are intended for female patients, and those on westerly side for male patients. ‘The front or southerly
ones of each are intended for convalescents and perhaps
for reception wards at times of little need, and also one
of the other wards will be temporarily divided off into
sleeping room for nurse or matron and also for use as a
bath room and supply room, but in case of necessity
these can be removed to the spacious and accessible
attic. Each ward is as follows: door with swinging
transom over leads from main hall to ward in the centerof end of same, whichis lighted with two double
glazed windows at the end opposite door placed so high
that the steam pipes can pass beneaththem. Each ward
is feet by feet by feet high, allin clear, and is
intended to accommodate four cots, two on either side
with central passage and passage on each side of same.
The system of heating is by steam, low pressure, close
circulation, the piping to consist of system of circulation pipes around each ward from door right and left
and furnished with steam boiler in cellar under dining
room. The hall is to have radiator to heat the same
degree as wards (one square foot of surface to feet of
space), so as to prevent chill when doors are opened.

 

  Report of Board of Health.

The ventilation is effected as follows: Each of tne four
corners of each ward is cut across inches by wall of
brick which formsa flue in each corner, which is thoroughly plastered with cement and has register
near the top and bottom, thereby giving control of air
in each ward as may be desired. Each flue at top is
to be nearly covered with galvanized iron cap leading
toa duct of same material, and from each corner of
wards in attic, these pipes will run into one pipe of their
aggregate size, and, these trunk pipes for each ward will
concentrate into ventilator stack of galvanized iron in
which each pipe will remain separate to the top of same,
which is to be surmounted with globe ventilator of suitable size. In this manner the air from each room is
kept entirely separate from the rest, and thus avoiding
any possible trouble which might possibly arise if it
were necessary to thoroughly fumigate or otherwise treat
or isolate any ward at any time, and also the constant
acting of the ventilating system is thus made sure of in
the usual way by levitation of the heated inside air in
winter and also in summer to considerable extent by
the exhaust action constantly taking place even in times
of sluggish action of the air by the ventilator at top of
stack.

With this work completed the duty of guarding from
epidemics of contagious diseases will be in great measure simplified and permanent safeguard established,
which we confidently believe will prove source of pride
and gratification as well as safety to our citizens. In
this belief we again recommend little appropriation for
the carrying on of this department.

EDWARD O’CONNOR, Chairman,
JOHN BATESON, Health Officer,
J. J. OCONNOR, Secretary,

Board of Health.

Report of City Engineer.
To the Honorable, the City Council of the City of
, Holyoke:
Agreeably to the provisions of the Ordinance governing this department, the City Engineer respectfully sub“mits the following report.
The expenses of this department for the year  ,
are as follows, viz:
Salary of Engineer and assistants, 
Profile paper, tracing cloth, etc.,  
Total expenses for the year, 
The field work of the department has consisted of the
necessary surveys required by the Superintendent of
Streets and the various committees in carrying forward
the several improvements of the year, and the office
work in the preparation of the necessary working
drawings, specifications and plans for the permanent
records of all completed work. The year has been one
of the busiest in all departments that our city has ever
seen, and the work performed by your engineer has been
proportionate thereto, while the salary has remained as
a stationary quantity, and that far too small, in the
judgment of those best informed as to the work performed, to give fair and just remuneration for services
rendered The brick-maker receives the market price |
for the brick that is furnished for the construction of
our sidewalks and sewers; the blacksmith full compensa.

  Report of City Engineer.

tion for shoeing the city’s horses and repairing the city’s
tools; the laborer upon her streets receives the maximum
market value for the service rendered; should her salaried officials be expected to render greater service for
the city than they may receive from the citizens for the
same? Should the city of Holyoke do less than is done
by other cities far behind her in public enterprise and
thrift? trust that this matter will receive candid consideration and fair treatment at the hands of the gentlemen who shall shape the policy of the in-coming year.

While the City Engineer pleads innocent to the
charge of negligence or remissness in the performance of
the duties entrusted to him, it is nevertheless fact that
a sum considerably greater than his salary has been paid .
to outside parties for the performance of certain services
which in the words of the ordinance the City Engineer
is bound to do, namely ‘he shall prepare all plans and
specifications for such structures,’’ (all structures built
by the city) ‘‘and shall prepare or cause to be prepared
by the City Solicitor, or otherwise, all contracts for the
same.’’ trust that this matter will also receive such
attention that it shall not be the fault of any committee
if the Engineer has not performed what he has taken his
oath to do in accordance with his ordinance.

There is another matter which has been so fully discussed and strongly urged in the reports from this department in previous years, and from which so little fruit
has appeared, that only its importance and far-reaching
consequences can persuade me to again call it to your
attention. The matter to which refer is the utter lack
of maps and plans in this department. Whatever work
has been done by the City during the past four years is
here recorded, but nothing in the way of comprehensive
and accurate maps can be shown, and were it not for a
wiser policy on the part of the Holyoke Water Power
Company, together with an uncommon courtesy to all

Report of City Engineer.  
who may be seeking the information they possess, the
City would have absolutely nothing to guide it in its
public improvements from year to year. As the City
grows older, and her improvements expand and multiply, the work of gathering up the scattered threads of
reliable information becomes more and more difficult.
The longer therefore this work, which in the end must
surely come, is left undone, the more costly and less
satisfactory it will become, when it is finally undertaken.
It is not selfish wish that express when say that I
hope that certain sum may be set apart this coming
year for the sole purpose of gathering accurate information and placing it in the permanent form of comprehensive city maps, that will be alike useful in each and
every department of the city, and that the constant
liability to false lines and grades may thereby cease.

WORK OF THE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.

The year’s work in this department consists of the
following items, namely, the grading of West Hampden
street upon its new location, as laid out and ordered by
the County Commissioners in the summer of  the
re-grading of Sargeant street, necessitated by the separation of the street and railroad grades; the paving of a
portion of Main and Appleton streets; and the annual
work of street repairs.

While there was difference of opinion expressed by
the public in regard to the wisdom of the Commissioners’ action, in granting the petition for the re-location of
West Hampden street, at the time when the same was
ordered, it is now generally conceded that the money
there expended has been well employed. The practical
advantage which has been gained by this line over the
old Hampden street route, and in fact over Dwight street
as well, is that the grade, or rise per foot, is considerably

  Report of City Engineer.

reduced, in comparison with either of the other routes,
and hence is more easily travelled. That this is seen
and appreciated by the travelling public is shown by its
constantly increasing use. slight increase in distance
has been caused by the laying out of the new route, but
the easier grade has also been effected by bringing the
total rise to uniform pitch from bottom to top.

If more money has been expended than the order of
the Commissioners would make imperative, namely, that
for the laying of cobble-stone gutters and the building
of catch-basins, it is in the belief that work thus thoroughly done, is in the whole cheaper for the City, than
any temporary expediency which might have been
adopted in its place. ‘‘What is worth doing at all is
worth doing well,”’ is saying none the less true in matters of public improvement, than in any of the other
affairs of life, and as long as the difference between
extravagance and wise expenditure is understood and
followed by the servants of the people, the interests of
good economy are safe.

The regrading of Sargeant street will probably be completed, and this highway be opened once more to public travel, by the new year, and it is the opinion of your

] Engineer that this improvement will commend itself favorably to the people, for the thoroughness with which
the work has been done, as well as for the additional
safety guaranteed. The street has been re-graded from
High street to the cridge over the second level canal, a
distance of one thousand one hundred and sixty feet, at
an expense of The amonut of earth removed |
was eleven thousand four hundred cubic yards.  proposal was submitted to the City by the New Haven and
Northampton railroad authorities for the construction
of the bridge and bridge abutments, the contractors
farther assuming all risk and liability for accident and
damage which might be occasioned by the work. This

Report of City Engineer.  
proposal was accepted by the Highway Committee, in
behalf of the City, and contract executed for the sum
of The abutments are of Mt Tom sandstone
laid in ‘‘coursed ashlar.’’ They are substantially built
and of ample proportions, containing four hundred and
eighteen cubic yards of masonry. The bridge is likewise
a substantial structure, with span of sixty feet, the
full width of the street, and is forty feet in width, which
covers the entire rail-road location at the street crossing.
The bridge is of extra heavy plate, and is of the ‘‘halfthrough plate girder’? pattern. In accordance with the
order of the County Commissioners, the clear height of
the roadway beneath the bridge is twelve feet from the
curb-stone to the under side of the girder. Cobble stone
gutters have been laid upon both sides of the street, and
catch-basins have been constructed at High, Commercial
and Front streets. The railroad tracks have been raised
at this point about five feet above their original grade,
and the roadway has been cut down about nine feet; the
Front street sewer at this point was originally about ten
feet and six inches below the street grade, to the crown
of the arch, and hence is now within eighteen inches of
the present grade of the finished road-bed. In order to
protect the sewer against any damage which may be
caused by heavy traffic passing over it, walls of suitable masonry should be built about it, and the same be
bridged across with stone flagging, as early in the coming year as the weather will allow. That portion of the
Sargeant street sewer between Front and Commercial
streets must also be re-laid to conform to the new grades
to the street.

The various phases through which this controversy,
between the city and the railroad company regarding
the Sargeant street crossing, has passed, are still so
fresh in the public mind, that an extended review of the
case  unnecessary, and hence only the principal points

  Report of City Hngineer.
and claims will be mentioned. The railroad company
operating the Holyoke and Westfield branch, having
advocated, for their own security, the question of the
separation of grades for some years, and finding the travel
at Sargeant street increasing rapidly, while the City was
moving in the matter slowly, removed the plank from
the crossing and thereby practically closed it to travel,
with the avowed intention of forcing the qnestion to an
issue. When the company were approached on the question of bearing any considerable proportion of the necessary expenditure, they advanced their claim of prior occupancy to release them therefrom. The City, believing
that since separation of grades was matter of mutual
benefit to both, the necessary expenditure should be
likewise mutual, petitioned the County Commissioners
and later the Railroad Commissioners for the laying of a
grade crossing, not as an ultimate end of the case, but
to place themselves on an equal footing with the Company, and thus secure what justice seemed to warrant,
an equa! distribution of the burden of cost. Failing in
this end, the city has accepted such concessions as the
company has seen fit to offer, namely the raising of their
tracks sufficiently to allow an under-grade crossing, and
the crossing was ordered laid. The verdict in this case
will be the governing precedent for all the other crossings upon the line, below Dwight street, and, am credibiy informed, it is the purpose of the company to force
the separation of the Cabot street grades during the
coming year. would therefore call the attention of the
Highway Committee of to the desirability of considering the same in reporting their recommendations
for the annual appropriations.
STREET PAVING.

Good progress has been made by the city during the

year just closing, in the matter of paving our principal

Report of City Engineer.  
business streets with granite. This work was begun in
the year  after an unsatisfacrory trial of macadam
onalimited scale. The amountof paving now laid in the
city. together with the cost of the same, is shown by the
following table:
on rocarion. aE Tosa

  {On Main st., between Appleton and Dwight)  |$  |On Main st., bet. Dwight and Lyman, |On Lyman st., bet. lower bridge and Front, |On Dwight st., bet. upper bridge and Front,  |On Main st., between Appleton, ;On Appleton st., west from Main,  
Total number of yards, Cost, 
The laying of granite paving upon all streets used for
heavy traffic will so materially decrease the annual outlay
for repairs, that good economy will warrant its continuance in as large quantities as the usual appropriation,
with justice to the other needs of the highway department, will allow. Asa basis for future work in this
direction would recommend the following streets to the
attention of the committee, in the order which their importance seems to require, together with an approximate
estimate of the quantity of paving required for each, viz.:
Front street, from Lyman to Dwight streets, exclusive of that portion occupied by the Railroad Co., yds
Canal street, from Lyman street to the County bridge
across the Connecticut river, —. yds
Main street, from Spring to Hamilton streets, yds
Race street, from Dwight street to present paving, yds
Dwight street, between the canal bridges, yds
Total, . yds

  Report of City Hngineer.

The question of procuring suitable gravel for making
the annual repairs upon the streets is one of considerable
perplexity, no abundant supply, easy of access, being
now available. All known localities within the accessible limit of the city should be examined with view of
securing the best for the future use in the department of
street repairs.

Nearly all of our principal streets have been repaired
during the past summer with gravel obtained from the
excavation of the Lyman street sewer, the trenches being
filled with sand from the immediate vicinity. The gravel

| thus obtained was of good quality for the work, and no
cheaper method for obtaining it was at hand.

I would repeat the suggestion in the last annual report
of this department, in calling the attention of the Committee on Highways to the unsatisfactory condition of
the embankment across ‘‘Dry Brook Hollow’’ on the
line of the Maple street extension. For the sake of
cheapness at the time of its construction the grade of
the highway was so fixed that the grades descend from
either direction towards the centre of the embankment.
The result has been that in times of heavy rain or melting snow large volumes of water, coming from both
directions, meet on the embankment, and flowing down
on either side, endanger the whole work. Your Engineer would recommend that the retaining walls at either
end of the culvert be raised and the street be brought up
sufficiently, with material at hand, that the water will
be carried to the intersection of Maple and Jackson
streets, and that catch-basins be there built to receive
the same and convey it into the alley sewer.

Taylor street from Hampden street northerly, portion of which is among our oldest streets, should receive
the attention of the Highway Committee, in the matter
of grading and sidewalks. Numerous petitions have
been received within few years asking that this street }

Report of City Engineer.  
might receive the attention which by reason of its date
of settlement and numerous abutters it is entitled. I
respectfully commend this improvement.

Upon petition of the Holyoke Water Power Company, the following streets have been duly accepted and
laid out as public highways of the city :

Distance

Sargeant street from Race to Chestnut, feet
Hampshire street from Walnut to Bh, feet
Walnut street from Essex to Cabot, feet
Pine street from Cabot to Hampshire, feet
Bridge street from Lyman to Canal, feet
Lyman street from Bridge to Canal, feet
Canal street from Bridge to Lyman, feet
Total distance, feet

In connection with the foregoing streets the following
grades were established by the Mayor and Aldermen,
December  :

TABLE OF STREET GRADES, ESTABLISHED  .

STREET. INTERSEOCTING STREET. ELEVATION.

Sargeant street, High street,  
‘“s Maple street,  
“  Chestnut street,  
Hampshire street. Walnut street,  
“ Pine street,  
‘  Bh street,  
Walnut street, Essex street,  
*s Cabot street,  
Pine street, Cabot street,  
‘s .* Hampshire street,  
Bridge street, Lyman street,  
“e Canal street,  
Lyman street, Bridge street.  
“  Summer street,  
“  ‘s Canal street,  
Canal street, Bridge street,  
“ Lyman street,  

NoTE—Al]l elevations are referred to the Holyoke city base, which

is agreeable to the datum of the Holyoke Water Power Company.

  Report of City Hnyineer.
SIDEWALKS.

In the direction of sidewalk extension most satisfactory progress has been made, as will be shown by the
following

TABLE OF SIDEWALKS LAID DURING TIE YEAR  .
. Quantity 
LOCATION OF WALK. Sq. Yards Cost.
On Appleton st., south side, from Main to the easterly side of Crescent st., 
On Adams st., south side, from alley east of Main
to Summer st.,  
On Crescent st., west side, from Appleton to Park,  
On East st., east side, from Cabot to Sargeant,  
On Hampden st., north and east sides. from east
line of John Doyle’s lot to top Money- hole hill,  
On Hampden st., south side, from Brooks Ave. to
Nonotuck st.,  
On Lyman st., south side, from Bridge to Canal, 
On Park s't., west side, from Crescent st., south,  
On Pine st., west side, from Dwight to Suffolk,  
On Pine st.. east side, from Appleton to Essex,  
On Sargeant st., north side, from Bridge over  d
level canai to Maple st.,  
On Sargeant st., south side, alley east of Main to
Summer st.,  
SUMMARY.
Total length of curbing laid, in lineal feet,  
Total quantity of walk laid, in square yards,  
Total number of brick laid, in thousands,  
Total cost of completed walks, as above, 

It has been considered best in the past to await the
voice of public convenience, as expressed by petition to
the Board of Mayor and Aldermen, before mapping out
the work of the year in sidewalk construction, so it will
probably be considered in the future, and hence the
usual recommendations of the Engineer are unnecessary
here.

Report of City Engineer.  

The setting of corner and return stones at the corners
of all streets belonging to the City, not yet curbed, has
been referred to and recommended in numerous previous
reports of your Engineer, but its importance is such
that another repetition is ventured, in the hope that the
Sidewalk Committee of may make beginning on
the work. Such corner stones serve to denote the proper
location fur lamp-posts, hydrants, service boxes, water
and gas pipes, etc., and to avoid many useless disputes
as to the proper and established grade of the streets.
Hydrants and lamp-posts have been found no unusual
obstructions to be met with in the construction of sidewalks in the past, and the expense of dis-connecting, resetting and again connecting the supply, considerable
item. With curb-lines thus plainly marked in advance
such errors need not happen.

CURBING.

There was set, during the year, lineal feet of
granite curbing, furnished by the W. N. Flynt Granite
Company of Monson, Mass. feet of curbing was
used by the city in the construction of the various sidewalks, and the balance, or feet, was furnished and
set for private parties. The location of the same is
shown by the following table :

Adams street, south side, from alley east of MaintoSummer,  feet
Appleton street, north side, from Main street to alley, ‘S
Appleton street, south side, from Main to Crescent street, ‘
Appleton street, north side, from Elm to Walnut street, 
Cabot street, south side, from Walnut to Pine street, *
Canby street, west side, from Hainpden street southerly, ‘S
Crescent street, west side, Appleton to Park street, *
Fast street, east side, trom Cabot to Sargeant street, §
East street, west side, from Ely street, southerly, ‘S
Essex street, south side, from High street to alley, ‘
Fountain street, north side, from Maple street, easterly, ‘*
Fountain street, south side, from Maple street, easterly, *§
High street, west side, from Essex street, southerly, ‘

  Report of City Engineer.
High street, east side, from Dwight street, northerly, feet
Hampden street, north side, from J. Doyle’s to Wasbington st., “
Hampden street, north side, from Washington street to alley,
east of Taylor street,   §

Hampden s'reet, south side, from Brooks Ave. to Pleasant st. 
Hampden street, south side, from Pleasant to Nonotuck st., ‘
Hampden street, north side, from Pleasant street, west,.. ‘
Hampden street, north side, bet. Nonotuck and Franklin st, ‘
Hampden street, south side, from Canby street, westerly, “
John stree', north side, from High street, easterly, ‘
Lyman street, south side, from Bridge to Canal street, *
Lyman street, south side, from Pine street, westerly, 
Main street, east side, trom Spring street, northerl,, **
Maple street, east side, from Fountain street, northerly, 
Maple street, east side, from Fountain street, southerly, ‘
Maple stree’, east side, between Kssex and Cabot streets, *S
Maple street, east side, between Cabot and Hamspbhire sts.,  ‘
Newton street, west side, from Cabot street, northerly,  
Oak street, west side, from Cabot to Hampshire street, ‘
Oak street, east side, from Cabot to Hampshire street. 
Park street, west side, from Crescent street, southerly, ‘
Pine street, west side, from Lyman street, southerly, ‘§
Pine street, east side, between Dwight and Suffolk streets,  ‘
Pine street, west side, from Dwight to Suffolk street, ‘
Pine street, east side, from Cabot street, southerly, ‘
Pine street, east side, from Appleton to Essex street, **
Pleasant street, west side, between Hampden and Beacons:s *
Sargeant street, north side, from  level canal toCommercial, “
Sargeant street, north side, from Commercial to High street, 
Sargeant street, north side, from High to Maple street, ‘§
Sargeant street. south side, under H. W. R. R. Bridge,  ‘
Sargeant street, south side, fm alley east of MaintoSummer, ‘
Suffolk street, south side from Elm street easterly to the alley, ‘
Walnut street, east side, from Suffolk to Appleton street, ‘*
Walnut street, east side, from Essex street, southerly, ‘:
Walnut street, west side, between Suffo:k and Appleton st., ‘
Walnut street, east side, from Cabot street, southerly, *
Walnut street, west side, from Cabot street, southerly, *

Total amount of curbing set, ‘é

BRIDGES.

. The Bridge street bridge over the second level canal,
near the Valley Paper Company’s mill, while not in an
absolutely unsafe and dangerous condition, is nevertheless badly out of line and its timbers are beginning to

Report of City Engineer.  
decay. When wooden bridge begins to fail, the
responsibility of its continued use rapidly multiplies.
I would therefore recommend it to careful examination
by the Highway Committee, before the annual appropriations are made, as it is now my opinion that its renewal
cannot be put off for the work of another year.

The matter of replacing the present bridges on Dwight
street with new ones sixty feet in width has been under
discussion for several years. Its need is generally admitted, but the necessary expense which would thus be
incurred has been beyond the means of the Highway Committees of recent years, after the more pressing
matters under their charge were attended to. As the
Street Railway Company have been granted location
through Dwight street from Main str to Linden
street, and as their Directors have expressed their intention of occupying their line from Main to High street
early the coming year, it would seem that the matter
cannot be much longer delayed, without serious inconvenience to the public. The paving of Front street from
Dwight to Lyman street, would turn the tide of heavy
traffic between the depots of the Holyoke and Westfield
railroad and the mills of Ward One, up Front and down
Lyman street; the South Hadley brick teams, coming
above the canals, would follow the same route, thus
greatly relieving travel by way of Dwight street and the
bridges. In the event of their removal, however, the
tower one with some repairs might be used to replace
the Bridge street bridge, to which attention has previously been called.

The other bridges within the city are found to be in
good repair and in serviceable condition.

  Report of City Engineer.
WORK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SEWERS
AND DRAINS.

The year has been one of important work in the
Sewer Department. Over two miles of sewers have been
added to our system, at an aggregate cost of 

The Lyman street trunk, with its necessary laterals,
which has been called for by the citizens of Ward One
for some years, may be termed the most important piece
of sewer building of the year. This sewer will provide
suitable drainage for large tract of land now being
rapidly occupied, and will furnish river outlet for
many houses which have heretofore drained into the
second level canal. portion of those so situated have
already been connected with the new sewer, and for the
general good health of the ward, we trust that the
remainder will be so connected as soon as possible. If
other lateral sewers shall be needed to accomplish this
object, we are confident, if the spirit of future action in
the Sewer Department can be foretold by that of the
past, that such will willingly be laid if petitioned for by
the abutters. In comparing the cost of the Lyman street
sewer with others of similar size, built in other localities,
it should be borne in mind that the depth of excavation
was necessarily considerable that proper grade and
depth might be got for all laterals connecting therewith,
and also to allow for any future extensions of the main
sewers that may seem advisable to be made. Another
item of additional expense was found in the nature of
the ground in which the excavation was made, namely
in the coarsest and hardest of gravel soils. Our city is
so especially fortunate in this regard, as compared with
most other places, that the fact is hardly thought of
except in the comparison of similar works at home and
elsewhere.

Report of City Engineer.  

There are several lateral sewers in this vicinity, now
emptying into the Ely street sewer, from which more or
less trouble has been experienced on account of the
slight grade at which they are laid, which can be easily
made effective by re-laying them so as to connect with
the Lyman street sewer; at the same time the change
will be advantageous in relieving the Ely street sewer,
which is fast becoming too small to successfully drain
the territory whose sewage passes into it. would
recommend that the Lyman street sewer be extended
from its present terminus through Race and Crescent
streets to Dwight street, as has been planned so to do.
That portion of Crescent street between Dwight and
Mosher streets is fast becoming one of our most important streets; in its sewerage accommodations it is most
wretchedly lacking, its only drainage being through a
small, shallowly laid pipe, with scarcely perceptible
grade, which empties into the alley sewer between Main
and Race streets. ‘There is already much complaint as
to the inadequate size of the latter sewer, which might
be considerably relieved by following the above suggestions.

A second important piece of sewer building which has
been accomplished during the year is that of the relaying of the sewer in the alley between High and Maple
street. The urgent necessity for this improvement was
appreciated by the Sewer Committee of  who investigated the matter in the fall of that year, but who were
obliged to refuse the petition of the abutters, for the lack
of the necessary funds. The petition, as again renewed
in the spring of  was granted. As the principal
defect in the old sewer was to be found in its shallow
depth, averaging some four feet less than the depth of
the cellars of the buildings on the High street side of
the alley, it was accordingly necessary in preserving sufficient grade and securing sufficient depth, to re-build

  Report of City Engineer.

the Appleton street outlet. Even had it appeared that
the necessary depth could have been obtained at the
expense of the grade, by reducing its total fall from end
to end, it would have still been necessary for the effective
working of tle lateral sewer, to have re laid the Appleton street trunk, since the latter was much too small for ,
the emergency of sudden storm, and the trouble which
was experienced by the High street abutters in the overflow of the alley sewer had its primary cause in this inability of the trunk sewer to carry the volume that it
received from one of the largest districts in the city.
The expense of this work was considerably increased by
the temporary disposal of the sewage during the time
of reconstruction, by the removal of the displaced sewer,
by the difference of grades between the old sewer and
the new one, and by the precautionary measures taken
in securing the foundations of the heavy buildings adjacent to the work.

- Asa matter of record, as well as ready means of surveying the entire work in this department and comparing
it with that of previous years, the following tables have
been prepared.

Report of City Engi
ngineer.  
q oe)  
O  re}  rt  
em nN  ZS
  ie) rt  la
| 
| ie *
e
ieo Fr Bg oe
ij} Q@ fx, yD  avof re
| 
| x
| a
fe
  a
 f
oo! re he Po  
Ney —A  FS a
an —— op oe BoP e
ao -e
— oN  .
D .
 ss
cD oo:
,  Hf
I ee] Se Ven)
re we N
— Ss  a
  z. t& sp &
fn LJ) 
; i) ial  oe Pay  S
AQ B,o FO &S BSB  g
mM rs a
mei! FE Es  
fr)  og ves  os :
, BOR
 Z.  Sa go  OG 
S On ca 
e es  go ‘@
  wo  bon oa Se
  ilea! e+ “es
  os Os Yow 
\  Pion  ot, be he
| Fs o& Sa pa o
oO AS fy oO g
omnl  ogs gs €£ig od  CU
| ef ss  oe ree §
fx) on Gey ed ys DO eens ss
 SP  SHES
  $@o hy ot Oo
a |, see ES  sag go
ow see -— Oo  ox Oe, Zan ag oo
fe) Vass oe of ac of nem”  
a ae  @,p Fy Saqx gras
D  ge -a  Zn FR ‘we ne Ay. Ss oOd
eas BS act
fa onme”  Ce MO en col Begs
) oewie ia  Tadeo exGo seam
Sen tage oLneroa SBLn oe SVR TO 
Z Spo bend oa oee anozt HF oo
 gare  ou Lew as rior se
P rece ii dese eg De EOS RecEst. os
 SRE SE aS ESE  Bose Sastes
  -oF au ose ened Sos ROBB DADS O
S FoeeoFz Meo gers se Ans Rood po
a aeons” BORE oh EA SSG eFSseng
| eb aods aeer-E-Bee SH HD
! tS oe Op  oemos  
@ las) B,o  caS es Xs. oF yas be se wes fs 
| a.  Dan ene Eg artip oe Fes ae
) als SBR ES ESS SonagZoe Eegoss
Se Ro ASSES obec She Ce  
eepeyd Pals: boca sei  
j  soefaga ssas s
fe ean soacesoase
a  ages
HRS  
he

  Report of City Hngineer.
| nN on) vor)  oO  ise) |
  co co fo) baTen) Ten) i) 
a Ne) SS  aN  qi
a  Ss Rie
ie So  rad es  g
SH
  et ot
a. on) Oo  Py 
oa mo oeeeee ee
  oO ne me OS Oo
tn
}
 fe SSeS   a
q |
 .
e  yo) .
® —
Si 
®  oe Sh me ew
z 
ord je?)
:  —— Se oe ae
Oo rz $- oa “as Bu sk 
oO N
D NN fox own an SS Oo ww 
me rot oe Lom oe re re
le) z
(o @) otdi  a
 || |
 Ee  oD qa vas So  Cole
és) los ie  re  ri  a) iD  ie  )
 Zz bac le) Lol oe “|e
je) jon
|
Ae  rad] i
eS} Db, D, Db ae  || @.  Ss Ss  o
| ma” he SaGatia? am week oe
Pededas Bas es
an  So  Sca e, BS  . .
: pat  pelt pope  a
he be rc at by to Hy
a) PRPPYHY LY 
uN  @s  $f
pa  §& Ealeses Fas &
ijt iofF FAo sors oO |
—  Sash ge
S eae SE Se   fae ee
e Ce  oY
va) dosh 
| sg SS ge sehee 
Fx, Cf Sb eb ele Mets gee 
— 
we be Se ale gas  eoecs oo
S eS ES  Sek shres gBSeE
.  Ong Me Seis auswsS 
A oN ee)
iil Be gs g& peegsexs Ay isa ee
 ]
 Roa  DOPMES To   oF
A Sel age ae eS eeatog gaog gs
 ES SETS  S
N o- wn ga Sonuh
SP  gS Shy ges -o each
coso OAM Beg Fe SOS ba Oe
oe fib al
Zi mE SeSetos atek oso Oo metae
Se) SO  BSOsS™sSysHn ont oS ®* sO ogEo
w PAS  
M  oy SE gaess CPOSCSEHHAG ow ood
 Ais Oo Stageg oe oMaeO Goro kk
  gegsy [Se tei esses esol Seeger
 be Stns re
a] Oe   Fe dey Oot bo hae ORO Rs
mPa mae hue OLn OL he RHE SS  bm
| Sms ost eM eRe SSN OC oMM om Oe
SS Bit ot—fFoOoDT kms aeae
SH sagsseSeosooe  oa ae —s a-t--)
fe) So  mn
Gan ODMBAOGR GAZ ePCDOR OH EHOW oO A
os Pro —
SS OGHORS OF CRZ SS SES SHS AOS OS ae
Se ml  ono —
|  S |
\ —— lam! am  Lam  on
Digtizea ty GOOLE

Report of Cit
  ity Engineer.  bd  I
:  seeg nsees Is
 s} Adin mMaw 
SS SSRRSANS  IA
  BARASEARR RSS  B
oA  Peo SES oO
£ Fe ws ate OD) wD

  Sr zs 
SyTA Hater |S )
ae BERS  
S iS wens See tr ie
  in
——— ee
a  —-a aQ
a  AN |
aD)  sete  
Fe {a} BEUES |S
tz, ea mh x
O oF :
TN)  ;
 eis] 
ca  aee sin |al S
om moor  O
NM JARS So OS 
r SSS
Sai fe EBs  EF]/ Oo pe ae  
| as Se
 a)  )
 -z 
Se  |
S Si
OF an Z|  
at RL a
os im ———— DP OD
x,  :
AO b- ele) §
wn rs es ae :
a oS  §&
|  Hi}
 Mim c
 
em
 ntsaS  
a CNS:
A pa as |S .
mm sg eye] &
  al sis
| Oo:  
J ne as ,
b |!  E
c &
ama] cs regays| §
 Es BASS |B]  
Zi Aaa ls
  lon ;
.  hy
i on) fon) (a)
oa
th  || s
, oe) Ce) 
Zi zee |
  cal  a
— |S {
S ae |
on
Rel ES 
S |]  
oO 
: e[ 
a
ng e
 S  ,
  
o  ios :
- seepeessgeres  WHO WMNMKK HHO LH oS

  Report of City Engineer.

Your Engineer would repeat the suggestions embodied
in the last annual report from this office that ‘‘the City
should take the proper steps to obtain right of way over
land now occupied by the Front street sewer, especially
that portion from Appleton street southerly adjacent to
land of the Holyoke and Westtield railroad, in order
that the rights of the City may be the better protected.”’

Also that the trunk sewer in West Hampden street
should be sufficiently extended to drain the Ward Seven
school-house and the new engine-house, and that the
necessary catch-basins may be built on Hampden street,
at the corners of Pearl and Nonotuck streets.

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF

CITY PROPERTY.

The need of new school-house in Ward Three has
been shown by the School Committee, and the occasion
for the demand clearly and urgently set forth. The
City Council of  admitting the necessity, passed
orders for the purchase of the lot and the erection of
the house, and but for ‘‘dead-lock’’ as to the proper
lot to be bought, the building would have been erected
during the past year. This necessity should receive the
early attention of the City Council of  that the
house may be ready for occupancy in the early autumn.
A lot should be bought, the plans matured and the contract awarded so that work can be begun as early as the
season will permit.

With the constant and rapid growth of the City the
demand for larger and more convenient building for
the High School is beoming more and more urgent. The
School Committee have already urged its erection, and
only by re-arrangement of seats and the putting in of
new ones in spaces required for other {purposes, have

Report of City Engineer.  
they been enabled to give seating capacity sufficient for
the school. The City should at least acquire lot, centrally located and of ample dimensions, while such a
lot can be had. When such building shall be undertaken, let it be built not for the present only, but also
for the future of such city as we expect to see in the
Holyoke of twenty-five years hence. ,

I would also repeat the admirable suggestion of your
Superintendent of Streets, that the city should at once
purchase the necessary land for City yard. No one
can appreciate this need more fully than he who has given
you the suggestion. There is at all times considerable
City property that cannot be fully protected except that
it be stored in an enclosed yard. The example of the
Water Commissioners in this regard is to the point. If
such convenience were had, the needed supplies for

’ public works might be bought in larger quantities and on
better terms, and thus be always at hand when needed
for the work of extension or repairs.

In making the annual apportionment for the department of City Property, the need of repairs in the City
Hall should not be overlooked. The ceiling of nearly
all rooms of the first story is in ruined condition, and
unsafe for those who may occupy the same. The
removal of all plaster stucco-cornices and the substitution of similar ones of wood, would seem the best and
most permanent means of making the repair. The finishing preparation upon the interior wood-work should
generally be renewed, for the preservation of one of the
best finished public buildings in the State. Too longa
delay will work lasting disfiguration to its beauty.

My duties as Inspector of Buildings have been performed as usual, and without incident worthy to be noted
here. The provisions of this ordinance are now so generally understood and accepted by our architects and

  Report of City Engineer.
builders, that few occasions for correction present themselves in the plans submitted for examination.

In conclusion desire to express my grateful acknowledgements to Mayor Delaney, the members of the several committees with whom have met, the Superintendent of Streets, and the other City officials, for the courtesy extended and the co-operation given me in the discharge of my duties to the City.

Most Respectfully Submitted,
EK. A. ELLSWORTH,
City Engineer.

| Report of Superintendent of Streets.
ge
To the Honorable Mayor and City Council of the City
of Holyoke.

I have the honor to submit for your consideration a
report of the progress and condition of the departments
under my charge during the year ending November  .

A prominent feature of the year’s work has been the
long deferred change in the line of travel over West
Hampden street (Money-hole hill), as defined and laid
out by the County Commissioners. The grade has been
changed, the road hardened, gutters have been laid on
both sides, and by the change in its iocation its sharp
turn and incline have in measure been removed.
Those who have had occasion to go over it since its completion will not fail to recognize its present excellent
condition. The cost of repairing this street, from School
street to Nonotuck street, was .

Another important work has been the change in the
grade of Sargeant street so as to admit the passage over
it, above gra‘le, of the tracks of the Holyoke Westfield Railroad Company, which formerly crossed the
street at grade. The obligation of constructing the
bridge over the street rested upon the City. The contract for this work was given to the New Haven and
Northampton Company for The contract for
excavating was awarded to Daniel O’Connell at cents
per cubic yard. EKight thousand cubic yards were excavated. The remaining portion of the work, that is the

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
gravelling and hardening of the road and restoring it to
a condition for travel, was done by the City. Gutters
were laid on both sides, several cross-walks and catchbasins were constructed, and sidewalk laid on the
northerly side of the str t. The general condition of
the street, thus treated, will be found satisfactory. It
will cost about  to complete the work.

Considerable work has been done on the streets.
Cabot street from Pine to Canal was gravelled with excellent gravel, which was obtained in the excavation of the
Lyman street sewer. Dwight street between Elm and
Chestnut streets was cut down several inches below
grade, bedded with stones and covered with gravel, and
that portion of the street is in good condition. detailed
statement of the streets which have been specially treated with gravel und hardening dressing, will be found in
another part of this report.

The road to Easthampton should be widened at two or
three places, and about one hundred and ninety rods of
fence built, as in some places it is actually dangerous for
travel. The fences on the West Holyoke roads, as also
those along the Springfield road, are somewhat dilapidated and need repairs. The brush or undergrowth on
either side of the road over the mountain should be cut,
and great many boulders in the roads might be
removed by blasting with advantage. The expense to
the City (and by no means slight) of keeping these roads
in suisable condition for travel, is to large degree
owing to the fact that these rocks must be kept covered
with dirt, which is washed off in every rain storm, and
in many cases they impede the course of the water and
in this way are prominent cause of washouts and
injury to the roads.

By areference to the details of the expenditures on
highways and bridges it will be noted that very large
sum of money was, of necessity, expended on bridges,

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
the county and canal bridges and the small bridges in
West Holyoke receiving considerable attention in the
way of repairs. In former reports have called the
attention of the City Councils to the fact that the county
bridge is badly in need of painting, and it is in my
Opinion unadvisable to postpone this work beyond this
year. The bridge shows to marked extent the effects
of the weather, and upon economical grounds should
receive good coat of paint. The tinning on the bridge
should be replaced. The small bridges might be
repainted with advantage to the city.

Appleton street from Race street to Main street, and
Main street from Appleton street to Spring street have
been paved during the year at cost of The
necessity for continuing this work from year to year,
upon the streets subjected to heavy traffic, is so apparent
that arguments are unnecessary. The Highway Committee will in its judgment determine the order in which
streets are to be paved.

An idea of the magnitude of the work done on sewers
may be gathered from the unusually large expenditure
of The Lyman street trunk sewer was constructed, costing much needed sewer on
the Manchester grounds has been built in Lincoln street
at cost of .

The old sewer in the alley between High and Maple
streets was replaced. The Carson excavator and engine
were used in excavating. In the detailed cost of this sewer
which follows, it will be noticed that lumber forms a
large item, which is due to the necessity we were under
of bracing the sides of the trench in the small alley, for
the protection of the buildings on the sides. It was not
deemed safe to remove the lumber from the sewer on
account of the danger the buildings might be subjected
to, and its cost is therefore charged to the sewer. The
total cost of the sewers which the City built during the

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
year, upon which assessments are to be levied, is about
$ The abutters are to be assessed for about of this amount, so that after the assessments are collected, the seemingly large draft for sewers, upon the
City’s treasury, will be considerably reduced. would
recommend the extension of the Lyman street sewer to
Dwight street, and by so doing relieve the over-taxed
sewer in the alley between Race and Main streets, whose
present capacity isn’t sufficient to meet the demands
made upon it, consequently, at times of heavy rain
Storms the water cannot be conducted through the sewer
and it backs into the cellars of the buildings abutting
upon it, frequently doing considerable damage. If the
Lyman street sewer is extended as suggested this diffi, culty will be remedied. source of inconvenience and
perhaps disease is the escape of sewer gas into the
cellars of dwelling houses, etc. The gas accumulates
and instead of finding vent at the outlet it finds its way
into cellars or through the catch-basins into the street.
There are instances where the stench has been so disagreeable, that the people living in the locality have been
obliged to cover up the catch basins to avoid it. The gas
escapes through catch basins thoroughly trapped, and so
great is its expansive power that have known it to
escape through nine inches of water in the catch-basin.
In my opinion, if iron stand pipes or feet in height
were erected at the extreme ends of sewers and at elevated points, which would act as ventilating mediums
for the sewers, the trouble from this noxious gas would
be prevented. ,
It would be advisable to purchase two water-tight carts
for the removal of catch-basin refuse. At present after
the soil is taken from the catch-basins, it must be allowed
to remain in the street for sometime, until it dries or
becomes of such consistency as to be removed in the
common carts, and frequently it has been necessary to

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
add sand to reduce it tosuch removable form, or when it
has remained on the streets, to use quantities of chloride .
of lime to destroy the odor. On the other hand if one
had box cart, the soil when taken from the catchbasins could be deposited in it, and thus the necessary
nuisance of permitting it to remain in the street, to the
detriment of the public health, would be avoided.

A more than usual amount of work has been done on
sidewalks this year. The growth of the city has been so
rapid, the building so active, and so many new streets
have been opened and laid out, that this work in order
to meet the demands of an enterprising public, could
not be dispensed with. Itis to be expected that work
of this kind must be extensive and costly while the City
is initsinfancy. Dwight street sidewalk has received
considerable attention during the year, having been thoroughly recoated where needed with concrete. Several
large and necessary sidewalks have been laid during the
year, the details of which are to be found in another part
of the report. Upwards of thirteen thousand feet of curbing have been laid, of which about five thousand feet have
been furnished to private parties. One-half of the cost
of constructing sidewalks is paid by the abutters, hence
when the assessments, amounting to about have
been received by the treasurer, the financial statement of
the Sidewalk Department will be somewhat changed. .

Gentlemen, respectfully call your attention to the
necessity for providing suitable place to be used as a

 city yard for storing lumber, tools and all the implements that are used in connection with the departments
under the charge of the Superintendent of Streets. The
small tuol house does not meet the demands, and Jumber, sewer pipe, cement, material and the varied property
of the City, in the absence of place to store them, are
left in different parts of the city, and frequently the
lumber is taken, sewer pipe broken, and other property

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
damaged. Ifa lot could be purchased south of Cabot
street near the tracks of the Holyoke and Westfield
Railroad Company, and so located that switch track
might run into the yard, it would bea wise step in the
direction of progress, and be of great benefit to the City.

I feel that it is the duty of the Superintendent to offer
such suggestions as in his judgment may tend to the
advancement of those interests of the City which are
entrusted to him; and if in your wisdom you find any of
those which humbly advance to be practicable, trust
you will make provisions to execute them.

I wish to express my gratitude to Mayor Delaney, the
gentlemen of the Highway, Sewer and Sidewalk Committees, and the City Engineer, for the wise suggestions
given and the many favors bestowed, which have contributed so largely to lighten the burdens of the Superintendent and make his task pleasant one.

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES.

Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Hay, grain and straw,  
Harness repairs, etc.,  
Horse shoeing, wagon and tool repairs,  
New cart and repairs,  
Labor not on pay-roll,. ;
Hardware and new tools,  
Right of road to Jones’ farm,  
Minor supplies,  
Use of team,  
One pair of horses,  
Board of Superintendent’s horse,  
Lumber,  
Two scrapers and one plow,  
Iron fence,  
Numbering streets, 
Storage,  
Rubber goods,  
Flagging,  

———— 
PARTICULAR WORKS UNDER THE HEAD
OF HIGHWAYS.
| REPAIRS ON PARTICULAR STREETS.

West Hampden street, from School

street to Nonotuck street, 
Cabot street, }
Main street,  
Race street,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Dwight street, 
Pleasant street,  
High street,  
Appleton street,  
Hampden street,  
Lyman street,  
Prospect street,   
Canal street,  
Taylor street,  
Division street,  
Bh street,  
Adams street,  
Spring street,  
Lincoln street,  
Northampton street,  
Elm street,  
Maple street,  
Ely street,  
Mosher street,  
Park street,  
Canby street, Le  
South street,  
Springfield road,  
——— 
CITY STABLES.
Drivers of City teams to April  st, 
Hay, grain and straw,  
Harness repairs, etc.,  
Horse shoeing, etc.,  
One pair gray horses,  
One new cart and repairs,  
- Sundry supplies,  
————— 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
The above is the cost of the City teams to April  st,
which was paid from the appropriations for Highways
and Bridges. In March the horses, harnesses, carts, etc.,
were transferred to the Fire Department. In previous
years the labor of the City teams has been credited to
the Highway Department, but it has been found necessary to keep the horses at the engine houses at all times,
and the city has been obliged to hire other teams to take
their places. This arrangement, and the purchase of a
new team, it will be seen, has materially increased the
expenditures upon highways, and the inventory will be
diminished by the trausfer of the above property to the
Fire Department.
CROSS- WALKS.
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
-———— 
There have been forty-five cross-walks laid during the
year, an increase of twenty-two over last year. They
are located as follows:
  on ‘‘Money-hole Hill.” |
  at corner of Pine and Suffolk streets.
  at corner of Pine and Cabot streets.
  at corner of Walnut and Cabot streets.
  at corner of Walnut and Appleton streets.
  at corner of Walnut and Elm streets.
  at corner of Race and Cabot streets.
  at corner of Sargeant and Bridge streets.
  at corner of Cabot and Bridge streets.
  at corner of East and Cabot streets.
  at corner of Lyman and Summer streets.
  at corner of Lyman and Bridge streets.
  on Brooks avenue.

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.

  at corner of Pleasant and Hampden streets.

  at corner of Pearl and Allyn streets.

  at corner of Lincoln and Pearl streets.

  at corner of Maple and Sargeant streets.

  at corner of High and Sargeant streets.

  at corner of Commercial and Sargeant streets.

  near Dickinson Mill on Sargeant street.

  across Dwight street at entrance to Police Station.

  across alley between East and Center streets on Ely
street.

  across alley between Bridge and Summer streets on
Lyman street.

  across alley between Canal and Summer streets on
Lyman street.

  across alley between Park and Bridge streets on Sargeant street.

  across alley between Park and Main streets on Sargeant street.

  across alley between Bridge and Summer streets on
Sargeant street.

  across alley between Main and Park streets at Adams
street.

  across alley between Bridge and Park streets on
Adams street.

  across alley between Bridge and Summer streets on
Adams street.

  across alley between Elm and Walnut streets on
Appleton street.

  across alley between Elm and Chestnut streets on
Appleton street.

  across alley between High and Maple streets on
Appleton street.

  across alley between High and Maple streets on
Appleton street.

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
BRIDGES.
Labor of men and teams, 
Lumber and carpenter work,  
Hardware,  
Iron-work,  
———— 
This amount includes the cost of replanking the
county bridge, which was The planks used
were planed on one side at an increased expense, which
increase will be justified by the service and durability of
the planks Tne Main street, Cabot street (lower) and
Bridge street bridges were replanked throughout; the
roadway and south sidewalk of the Appleton street
upper bridge, the roadway and north sidewalk of the
Dwight street lower bridge, both Lyman street bridges,
and the north sidewalk of the Dwight street upper
bridge were replanked; also small bridges in West Holyoke were repaired. On an agreement entered into
between the Holyoke Horse Railway Company and the
City, the former is to pay one third of the cost of repairing the county bridge, and one-fifth of the cost of repairing the small bridges over which its tracks pass.
GUTTERS.
Labor of men and teams gathering and laying cobble-stone
gutters, . 
——— 
The following are the places where the gutters were
laid, viz.:
Dwight street between Elm and Chestnut streets, yards

  Report of Superintendent of Streets. :
Mosher and Bowers streets, yards
Money-hole hill, yards
Maple street between Hampden and Lyman streets,   yards
Hampden street between Maple and Chestnut,  yards
Lyman street between High and Maple, yards
Front of Engine houses, yards
Crossings,   yards
Sargeant street, yards
Relaying Pine street gutter, yards
Leading to catch basins, yards
Relaying gutters on High street, yards
General repairs on gutters, yards
Relaying gutters on Cabot street, yards
  yards
GENERAL REPAIRS ON GUTTERS. |
Labor of men and teams,  |
——  !
  square yards of gutters were laid during the |
year, as*above, an increase of yards over last .
year. Theaveragecost per square yard was cents. .
: SUNDRIES. ,
Cleaning and repairing cross-walks, |
Repairing back roads, !
Repairing roads over the mountain, :
Breaking roads, |
Opening gutters and removing snow, |
Cleaning streets,   |
General repairs, ..  
Care of Superintendent’s horse,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Repairing fences, 
Right of road to Jones’ farm,  
Scrapers and plow, ,
Storage,  
Culverts,  
Minor supplies,  
Rubber goods,  
Washouts,  
Numbering streets,  

——-— 
| SARGEANT STREET CROSSING.
Labor of men and teams, §$  
Daniel O’Connell, excavating SVU
yards dirt, 
Holyoke Water Power Cv., fence,  
Cobble-stones,  
Hardware,  
Lumber,  
C. N. Yeamans, on account of bridge
contract,  
———— 
Balance due on bridge contract, 
. PAVING.
Appleton street from Race street to Main street and
Main street from Appleton to Spring street.
Labor of men and teams,  
Clark Hill Granite Co., square
yards of stone, at less
freight on same, ,
Bidwell Cooper for square
yards of stone, at less
freight on same,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Daniel O'Connell, square
yards of stone, at 
Tool repairs and hardware,  
Freight on stone,  
Daniel O’Connell, for laying square yards of stone,at  
— ——  square yards of stone were laid during the
year, which includes square yards on hand since last
year. Last year Mr. O’ Connell was paid cts. per square
yard for laying the stone only this year he furnished
the sand in addition and received cents per square
yard. The average cost per square yard for paving was
$ .
SIDEW ALKS.
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES. !
Labor of men and teams, 
Curbing,  
Freight on curbing,  
Masonry and stock,  
Lumber,  
Hardware and tool repairs, ..  
Cartage on curbing, 
Stone cutting,  
Concrete walks,  
Sundries,  
———— 
|
|

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
PARTICULAR WORKS UNDER THE HEAD
OF SIDEWALKS.

HAMPDEN STREET SIDEWALK.

Labor of men and teams,  
Masonry and stock,  
Lumber, stakes, etc.,.  
Tool repairs and hardware, feet curbing at cts.,  
Cartage of curbing at cents,  
Stone cutting,  

  ———— 

PINE STREET SIDEWALK—FROM DWIGHT STREET TO
SUFFOLK STREET.

Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Supplies, etc.,   feet of curbing at cents, corner stones and circles,  
Cartage of curbing, circles and corners,  

—— 

SARGEANT STREET SIDEWALK—FROM ALLEY BETWEEN

MAIN AND PARK STREETS TO SUMMER STREET.

Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Lumber and tool repairs, feet curbing at cents, circles and corners,  
Cartage of curbing, circles and corners,  

——— 

This amount includes the cost of re-setting feet of

old curbing.

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
ADAMS STREET SIDEWALK.
Labor of men and teams, 
Hardware and lumber,  
Masonry and stock, feet of curbing at  cents, —. circles and corners,  
Cartage of curbing, circles and corners,  
——  
PINE STREET SIDEWALK FROM APPLETON STREET TO
ESSEX STREET.
Labor of men and teams,  
Masonry and stock,  
Tool repairs, etc.,   feet of curbing at  cents,  
Cartage of curbing, at cents,  
—— 
EAST STREET SIDEWALK.
Labor of men and teams,  
Masonry and stock,  
Tool repairs and supplies, feet of curbing at cents,  corner,  
Cartage of curbing and corner,  
—— 
This amount includes the cost of re setting feet
of old curbing.
LYMAN STREET SIDEWALK.
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Lumber and tool repairs, feet of curbing at cents,  
Cartage of curbing, at cents,  
—— s- 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
, SARGEANT STREET SIDEWALK—FROM RACE STREET TO
MAPLE STREET.
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Lumber and hardware, feet of curbing at cents,  
Cartage of curbing,  
—— 
CRESCENT STREET SIDEWALK.
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Lumber, etce.,  
§  feet of curbing at cents, |
Cartage of curbing, at cents,  
—— 
JACKSON STREET—SETTING CURBING AROUND THE PARK.
Labor of men and teams,  
Hardware and lumber,  
Masonry and stock, feet of curbing at cents, corners,  
Cartage of curbing and corners,  
——— 
REPAIRING SIDEWALK ON DWIGHT STREET—NEAR
WHITING PAPER MILL.
Labor of men and teams,   square yards of concrete, at
  cents,  
—-—— 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
SIDEWALK ON DWIGHT STREET—FRONT OF
WILLARD PROPERTY.

Labor of men and teams, square yards of concrete, at  
cents,  
————— 
One half of the cost is to be paid by the abutters.
REPAIKING SIDEWALK ON THE WESTERLY SIDE OF HIGH
STREET BETWEEN DELANEY AND MANN BLOCKS.
Labor of men and teams,  feet of old curbing and cartage
on same, at cents,  
Masonry, re-setting old curbing, square yards of concrete at  
cents  
————  
One-half the cost is to be paid by the abutters.
WORK DONE FOR PRIVATE PARTIES ON
SIDEWALKS.
THOMAS BRESNAHAN—PINE STREET.
Labor of men and. team, 
Masonry and stock,  
——. 
MRS. J. J. NUGENT—MAPLE STREET.
Labor of men and team, 
Masonry and stock,  
——— 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
SECOND BAPTIST SOCIETY. |
  feet of curbing at cents, 
Masonry and labor of men,  
Cartage of curbing,  
———. 
T. B. FLANDERS—CHESTNUT STREET.
Labor of men excavating for sidewalk, 
—— 
JOHN DELANEY—HIGH STREET.
Labor of men and teams,  feet of curbing at cents,  
Masonry, etc.,  
Cartage of curbing,  
—— 
CURBING FURNISHED TO PRIVATE PARTIES.
Mrs. Alma W. Smith, feet, inches
E. H. Reed, feet.
EK. P. Cady, feet, inches
Fred. Celce, feet, inches
H. C. Cady, feet, inches
Louis Bume, feet, inches
Mrs. Anna Smith, feet, inches
J. T. Ellsworth, feet.
Second Baptist Society, feet.
C. H. Woodsum, feet.
H. H. Smith, feet.
M. H. Whitcomb, feet, inches
P. Moore, feet.
L. M. Bishop, feet, inches
C. W. Johnson, feet, inches

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Mrs. O. R. Parmalee, —. feet.
Holyoke Water Power Company,
Walnut street, feet, inches
A. T. Tuttle Sons, feet.
W.H. H. Ward, feet.
Thomas Bresnahan, feet.
Mrs. Patrick Lyons, feet.
Thomas Curley, feet.
M. J. Hicks, feet.
Dennis Higgins, feet.
Mrs. B. Bernhard, feet. |
A. E. Sawin, feet.
John Delaney, feet.
J. L. Burlingame, feet.
B. F. Perkins, feet.
J. L. Hodge,  feet.
C. C. Jenks, feet.
John Dillon, feet.
W. F. Wheelock, feet.
EK. D. Shelley, feet.
E. L. Munn, feet.
James Greeley, feet.
L. B. White, feet.
Mrs. J. J. Nugent, feet.
St. Jean Baptiste Society, feet, inches
Moses Newton, feet.
Holyoke Machine Co., feet.
Michael Welch, feet, inches
Holyoke Water Power Co., Main
street, feet.
  feet, inches
Cost of above curbing, at cts. per ft., 
Cartage of same at cents per foot,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
WORK DONE FOR PRIVATE PARTIES, SETTING CURBING.
Mrs. Alma W. Smith, 
EK. H. Reed,  
EK. P. Cady,  
Fred Celce,  
H.C. Cady,  
Louis Bume,  
Mrs. Anna Smith,  
J. T. Elsworth,  
Second Baptist Society,  
C. H. Woodsum,  
H H. Smith,  
M. H. Whitcomb,  
P. Moore,  
L. M. Bishop,  
C. W. Johnson,  
Mrs. O. R. Parmelee,  
Hol. Water Power Co., Walnut street,  
A. T. Tuttle Sons,  
W. dH. H. Ward,  
Mrs. Patrick Lyons,  
Thomas Curley,  
M. J. Hicks,  
Dennis Higgins,  
Mrs. B. Bernhard,  
A. E. Sawin,  
John Delaney,  
J. L. Burlingame,  
B. F. Perkins,  
J. L. Hodge,  
C. C, Jenks,  
John Dillon,  
W. F. Wheelock,  
E. D. Shelley,  
EK. L. Munn,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
James Greeley,  
L. B. White,  
Mrs. J. J. Nugent,  
St. Jean Baptiste Society, —.  
Moses Newton,  
Holyoke Machine Co.,  
Michael Welch,  
Hol. Water Power Co., Main street,  
——.—s- 
The expense of setting curbing delivered to T. Bresnahan is included in the amount charged him for laying
his sidewalk, as it appears in another part of this
report.
SUNDRIES.
Re-setting curbing on Ely street, 
Concrete re coating on Dwight street |
walk from Prentiss’ mill to foot
of Ewingville hill,  
square yards at cents,  
Repairing Hampden street sidewalk,  
Returning  -inch curbing shipped
through error, |
Re-laying walk front of old engine |
house,  
Re-setting curbing in Fountain street, |
General repairs,  
Re-setting curbing on East street, not |
charged to East street sidewalk,  
Concrete re-coating on Lyman .
street walk,  
Part cost of laying walks front of
blocks of L. Davis, J. S. Carr,
and Holyoke Furniture Co.,  
Catch-basin stone under sidewalks, |

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Ward Seven Engine House,  
feet curbing and setting same, 
Cartage on curbing,  
Stone-cutting,  
Corner-stones, not charged to particular walks, feet curbing at Sargeant street
crossing,  
—— 
In the schedule of side-walk expenditures it will be
observed that the item for lumber is quite large. The
reason therefor is that it was calculated to be used for
concrete walks, but brick walks were laid instead, and
, the lumber, not required for sidewalks, was used on
bridges and highways, for fences, etc.
SEWERS AND DRAINS.
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES.
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Masonry andstock,  
Lumber,  
Hardware and new tools,  
Tool, excavator and engine repairs,  
Catch basin stone,  
Sewer grates and manliole covers,  
Stone cutting,  
Iron pipe and hose,  
Fuel for engine,  
Use of Carson excavator,  
Freight on Carson excavator,  
Use of engine and freight on same,  
Carpenter work,  
Rubber goods,  
Sundry supplies and repairs,  
————.  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
PARTICULAR WORK UNDER THE HEAD
OF SEWERS AND DRAINS.
Sewer in the alley between Maple and Chestnut streets, from Cabot street to Sargeant
, street :
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Lumber,  
Cement,  
——— 
Sewer in the alley between High and
Front streets, rear of Delaney’s block:
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Cement,  
———. 
Cabot street trunk sewer, from the alley
between High and Maple streets to
alley between Elm and Chestnut streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Lumber,  
Repairing tools, and supplies,  
—— Sewer in the aliey between Chestnut and Elm
streets, from Cabot to Sargeant :
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Lumber,  
——— 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Sewer in the alley between Bridge and Summer streets :
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Cement and lumber,  
Tool repairs, hardware and supplies,  
———  U
Lyman street sewer (trunk).
Labor of menandteams,  
Masonry and stock, per contract,  
Lumber  
Manhole frames and covers,  
Hardware, iron caps and supplies,  
Tool repairs, etc.,  
———— 
Sewerin the alley, between High and Railroad streets :
Labor of men and teams,  
: Akron pipe,  
Cement,  
—— 
Appleton street sewer (trunk).
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Hardware and supplies,  
Manhole frames and covers,  
Tool repairs and caps,  
Lumber,  
——— 

|
  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Sewer in the alley between High and Maple
streets :
Labor of men and teams, 
Supplies, hardware and expressage,  
Akron pipe for connections,  
Luinber,  
| Masonry and stock,  
Iron pipe and hose,  
Carpenter work,  
Use of excavator and freight on
same, |
Use of Engine and freight on
same,  
Fuel for engine,  
Repairs on excavator, etc.,  
—— 
Sewer in the alley between Summer and
Canal streets, between Lyman and Canal:
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Lumber, and tool repairs,  
Cement,  
-——— 
Sewer in the alley between Pine and Walnut streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Cement,  
—— 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Sewer in the alley between Bh and Oak
street :
Labor of men and teams, 
Lumber,  
Akron pipe,  
Cement, etc.,  
— 
Sewer in the alley between Elm and Chestnut
streets |
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Cement and tool repairs,  
—-——— 
Cleaning sewer in the alley between Main and
Race streets :
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Tool repairs, hardware and
dredge,  
——— 
Lincoln street sewer, (trunk). .
Labor of men and teams, 
Akron pipe,  
Cement, new tools and repairing,  
Lumber,  
Masonry and stock,  
Manhole frames and covers,  
——— 
NEW CATCH BASINS.
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Covers and grates, 
Stone cutting,  
Akron pipe,  
Catch-basin stone,  
Tool repairs, supplies, ete.,  
——— 
Forty-six catch-basins have been built during the
year. They are sufficiently large to allow man to
work freely in them. They are located as follows:
  on the corners of Dwight and Linden streets.
  on O’Connor avenue.
  on the corners of Pleasant and Allyn streets.
  on the corner of Taylor and Hampden streets.
  on the corner of Hampden street and Brooks avenue.
  on the corners of Lincoln and Northampton streets.
  on the corner of Lincoln and Taylor streets.
  on ‘‘Money hole hill’
  on Prospect street between Walnut and Pine streets,
  on the corner of Newton and Cabot streets.
  on the corner of Bond and Cabot streets.
  on the corner of Appleton and Main streets.
  on the corner of Spring and Main streets.
  on Crescent street near Coghlan’s boiler works.
  on the corner of Bridge and Sargeant streets.
  in the alley between High and Maple streets.
  on the corner of High and Suffolk streets.
  on the corner of Appleton and Suffolk streets.
  on the corner of Lyman and Canal streets.
  on the corner of Ely and Bridge streets.
  on the corner of Bowers and Mosher streets.
  on the Sargeant street crossing.
  on the corners of Sargeant and Maple streets.
  on the corners of Sargeant and Maple streets.
  on the corners of Sargeant and Commercial streets.

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  on the corner of East and Hamilton streets.
Also one cess pool on Sargeant street, between Main and
Park street. ,
Drainage from Catch-Basins:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Akron pipe,  
Supplies and tool repairs, etc.,  
—-—— 
Manholes, not connected with the particular
sewers before mentioned :
Labor of men and teams,  
Masonry and stock,  
Frames and covers,  
——— 
Cleaning and repairing Catch-Basins :
Labor of men and teams  
Masonry and stock,  
Supplies and tool repairs,  
Covers and frames,  
——— 
General repairs on Sewers:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Supplies and tool repairs,  
—— 
Work done for private parties:
Labor and Akron pipe, cement, etc.,
making sewer connections, 
———— 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets. |
Sundries :
Use of team and hack, 
Use of boat, —..  
Minor supplies,  
——— 
FRONT STREET SEWER.
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry and stock,  
Man-hole covers,  
Lumber,  
. Blacksmithing and repairs,  
Supplies,  
Iron caps,  
New Haven and Northampton Railroad Co., expense of bridging
tracks to allow sewer to pass
under,  
Hack hire and cartage,  
Tools and hardware,  
City Engineer,  
——— 
Cost of portion of Front street sewer built in
 , 
Cost of portion of Front street sewer built in
  
Cost of remaining portion of Front street
sewer, built in   
Total cost, 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
WORK DONE FOR OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
New Chestnut street School-house :
Labor of men and teams, 
| -———— 
City property:
Labor of men moving pump on Sargeant
street,  
— 
Parks: |
Labor of men at South Holyoke
Park,  
—— 
Engine house :
Labor of men and teams,  
-—— 
RECAPITULATION.
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.
Appropriation, 
Receipts,  
Transfer,   §, 
Balance from last year,  
———— 
Expenditures, 
—— —— 
Balance, 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
SEWERS AND DRAINS.
Appropriation, 
Receipts, :
———— 
Expenditures, 
Overdrawn last year,  
—————-  
Overdrawn, 
SIDEWALKS.
Appropriation, 
Receipts,  
———— 
Expenditures, 
Overdrawn last year,  
| ———— 
Overdrawn, 
PAVING.

 Appropriation, 
Expenditures,  
Overdrawn, 

STOCK ON HAND.
Old lumber, 
Old plank from County bridge, feet of  -inch Akron pipe, feet of  -inch Akron pipe, feet of  -inch Akron pipe, |
  feet  -inch Akron pipe,  -inch quarter turn,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  -inch quarter turn, -inch qnarter turn,  -inch quarter turn, corner stones, circle,   feet of old curbing,  
Paving blocks, bricks,  
Cross-walk stones,  
Trap stones,  
——— 
INVENTORY OF PROPERTY ON HAND.
TOOL HOUSE.
  Janterns,   picks,   hand saws, cross-cut saws, Edson pumps, |
  small hand pump, street hoes, long-handle shovels, wheel-barrows,  
Catch-basin patterns, grub-hoes,   wooden mauls..  
Sewer caps,   brooms, pounders,   pails,  
Plow points,  
Sewer dredger and rigging,  
Ropes and chain, pairs rubber boots, oil cans,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Oil,   plows,  small scrapers, patent road machine,  levels, trowel and mason’s hammers,   paving hammers, sledge hammers, hydrant wrenches, hose wrenches, mis)
  small axes, large axes,   rubber coats, manure forks, feet of inch hose, garden spades, eity brand, brush cutter,  
Cross-walk and sidewalk patterns, water barrel, crow bars, small tampers,. tool boxes,  
Stone crusher, snow plows,  
Drills and points, monkey wrench, 

——---— 
Respectfully submitted,
M F. FITZGERALD,
, Supt. of Streets and Sewers.

Report of Chief of Police.
To the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with my duty as Chief
of Police, respectfully submit the following report of
the labor, receipts and expenditures of the Police Department for the year ending November .

The present force consists of one chief, one captain,
one detective and twenty-one patrolmen; one in the
Office days, one in the office nights, four on the streets
days, and one detective, leaving fifteen patrolmen
assigned as follows: Two to each of the first six
wards, one to ward seven, and two for High street.
Officers go on duty at seven, eight, nine and ten o’clock
P.M. would here say that owing to the absence of
the officers on their vacations, we have the actual service of but twenty officers for duty, which oftentimes
becomes perplexing to properly cover all beats and supply the wants of private entertainments, etc. While
Iam well aware that any proposition looking towards
an increase of the force is generally looked upon with
disfavor as being unnecessary, candor demands that
the truth be told, and would here say more officers
could be advantageously employed. How many shall
leave for others to determine. |

WORK DONE BY THE POLICE,
Arrests,  Males,  
Minors,  Females,  

  Report of Chief of Police.
PLACE OF BIRTH.

America, .  
Ireland, ,  
Canada, ,  
England, .  
Scotland, .  
Germany, ,  
France, .  
China, ,  
Denmark,  

Total, .  

CAUSES OF ARREST.

Assault and Battery, 
Assault on officer,  
Breach of the peace,  
Breaking and entering,  
Drunkenness,  
Entertaining on Lord’s day,  d
Interfering with an officer,  
Larceny, 
Malicious mischief,  
Murder,  
Non-support of minor child,  
Sureties of the peace,  
Stubborn child’  
Vagrancy,  
Embezzlement,  
Violation City Ordinance,  
Fornication,  
Indecent exposure,  
Evading Railroad fare,  
Fast driving,  

Report of Chief of Police.  
Night walking,  
Over driving horse,  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Cruelty to animals,  
Goods on false pretences,  
Selling to minors,  
Forgery,  
Infanticide,  Peddling without license,  
Adultery,  
Walking on railroad,  
Selling milk without license,  Contempt of Court,  
Total,  
DISPOSITION OF ARRESTS.
Appealed to Superior Court,  
Bound over to Superior Court,  
Committed to House of Correction,  
Fined and paid,  
Discharged,  d
Committed to State Reform School,  
Sentenced to House of Correction,  
Committed in default of bonds,  
Committed to Reformatory Prison,  
Gave bonds to keep the peace,  
Total,  
NUMBER OF ARRESTS EACH MONTH.
December,  ,
January,   
February,  AT
March,   

 Report of Chief of Police.
April,   
May,   
June,   
July.   
August,   
September,   
October,  .  
November,   
Total,  
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS.
Arrests,  
Arrests for officers of other places,  
Drunken persons sent or taken home,  
Fires discovered and alarm given, dil
Doors found open,  
Strayed teams cared for,  
Lost children cared for,  
Sick persons cared for,  
Dead bodies cared for,  
Stolen property recovered, 
Tramps fed and lodged,  
FINANCIAL REPORT.
RECEIPTS.

Officer’s fees paid into City Treasury, 

Appropriation,  
——— 

Pay-roll of Police Department, 

Miscellaneous expenses,  
— ——— (), 

Overdrawn, 

Report of Chief of Police.  
EXPENDITURES—PAY ROLL.

James Dougherty, Chief of Police, 
Patrick Herbert, captain,  
Michael Shine,  
Henry Duhaime,  
James Crowley,  
Richard Peters, 
Dennis Mack,  
Patrick H. Mullin,  
Daniel Cronin,  
Thomas Riley,  
Joseph Landrey,  
John A. Davis,  
Robert D. Sargent,  
Henry Campbell,  
William E. Blackmer,  
Michael Lynch,  
Patrick E. Sullivan,  
Frank Priest,  
C. J. Louney,  
Timothy Healey,  
George L. Dickinson,  
M. F. McCarthy,  
H. W. Chamberlin,  
Joseph A. Holleran,  
Patrick J. Deveraux,  
John B. Randall, |
John Lee,  
Joseph Woodruff,  
Thomas Leonard,  
William Brockway,  
Cornelius Cronan,  
William Dougherty,  
Florence Donohue,  

  Report of Chief of Police.
James Hussey, 
Joseph Lapoint,  
Cornelius O’ Leary,  
John C. Doran,  
Total, 
MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES.
E. J. Pomeroy,  
Transcript Publishing Co.,  
Ames Sword Co.,  
Waterbury Button Co., to  
Herald Publishing Co.,  
New England Telephone Co.,  
Watson Ely Son,  
Thomas Connor,  
Briggs Co., County Directory,  
Holyoke Furniture Co.,  
C. E. Ball,  
John Tilley Co.,  
Five Cent Store,  
J.  Comins,  
G. E. Russell,  
James Dougherty,  
Total,   
OFFICE FEES.

From Dec.  to Nov.  
Amount paid into the City Treasury,  

Amount due from County to be paid to City
Treasury,  

Report of Chief of Police.  

I would here recommend that place other than the
general lock-up be provided for tramps, and suitably
fitted up for their convenience. You will notice there
were tramps lodged in  against in  ,
thereby causing great inconvenience to properly care for
our prisoners. While the prisoners are locked in the
cells the tramp is obliged to roam in the corridor, or lie
down on the flagging, or, perhaps spend his time by
trying tv helpthe prisoners escape, by prying at the
doors or picking the locks.

REMARKS.

Again would refer you to the good order, peace and
quiet that we have been blessed with, as of the previous
year, and for which we must credit largely to our very
efficient Police force. And would here say that there
seems to be an aptness in the minds of some of our very
good people rather to hinder than to assist the officers.
No one little thing is more source of annoyance than the

, constant receipt of anonymous complaints, frequently
in mysterious language, concerning alleged evils. It
might be well to have it understood that very seldom
does it occur that these missives receive any attention
whatever. If citizens know of evils which should be
remedied, they have two proper methods to act upon;
they can go the police court and enter formal complaints,
or call at the Police headquarters and state their grievances, when proper action will be taken and due secrecy
be observed. It generally happens, however, that the
anonymous writers seek to revenge private wrongs in a
public manner, at the same time screening themselves,
hence, when no attention is paid to their communications, they are loud in their condemnation of the inactivity of the Police force. Therefore would recommend
that those parties in the future assist your Police officers,

  Report of Chief of Police.
for as year by year goes by there is little in the line of
police duty which is different from that we are familiar
with. Efficiency should be the aim of the Police department, and everything which fosters its efficiency should
be encouraged.

CONCLUSION.  

In closing this report would not forget to acknowledge

the counsel and assistance rendered me at all times by
his Honor, the Mayor, the confidence and co-operation of |
City officials generally, as well as of the rank and file of |
this department who have so ably sustained me, and tender to one and all who have in any way aided me, my
hearty thanks therefor, in the hope that the department
as whole, may ever be ableto present as clean record
as during the past year.

Iam, respectfully,

JAMES DOUGHERTY,
Chief of Police.

Rules and Orders of the Board
of Aldermen.
| ——+- —

SECTION  The order of business shal! be as follows:

 st. The Mayor shall call the Board to order, and if
a quorum be present, shall cause the roll to be called,
and the names of the absentees recorded.

 d. The journal of the previous meeting shall be read.

 d. Petitions, remonstrances, memorials and reports
shall next be called for and be disposed of by reference
or otherwise.

 th. Such nominations, appointments and elections
as may be in order shall be considered and disposed of.

 th. The orders of the day shall be taken up; meaning by the orders of the day, the business remaining
unfinished at the previous meeting and such communications as may have been subsequently sent up from the
Common Council.

 th. New business may be introduced by any member of the Board.

Sect.  Every ordinance shall pass through the following stages before it shall be considered as having
received the final action of this Board, viz: first reading,
second reading, passage to be enrolled, passage to be
ordained; and every joint resolution shall have two several readings before the question shall be taken on ifs
final passage.

  Board of Aldermen.

Sect.  resolve, an order for appropriating money,
or an ordinance, may be rejected at either stage in its
progress, but may not pass through all its stages in one
day.

Srect.  Standing committees shall be appointed on
police, on licenses, on enrollment, on ordinances, and on
elections and returns; and each committee shall consist
of three Aldermen.

Sect.  No member shall be interrupted while
speaking, but by call to order or for correction of a
mistake, nor shall there be any conversation among the
members while paper is being read or question stated
from the chair.

Sect.  None of the foregoing rules and orders
shall be suspended, amended or repealed, at any meeting, unless two-thirds of the members present consent
thereto.

Sect.  All committees shall be appointed and
announced by the Mayor, unless the Board shall determine otherwise.

SEectT.  No member shall speak more than twice to
the same question without leave of the Board nor more
than once till all other members choosing to speak shall
have spoken. ,

SEcT.  At all meetings of the Board, four Aldermen
shall constitute quorum for the transaction of business.

Rules and Orders of the Common Council.
ge

SEcTION  The president shall take the chair at the
hour appointed for the meeting, call the members to
order, and shall forthwith cause the roll to be called and
the names of the absentees recorded. If quorum be
present, he shall then call for the reading of the minutes of the preceding meeting, and prod to business.

Stct.  He shall preserve order and decorum, may
speak to points of order, in preference to other members,
and shall decide all such questions, subject to an appeal
to the Council by any two members, and no other business shall be in order until the question on the appeal
shall have been decided. He shall appoint all standing
committees and all other committees not required to be
elected by ballot, or which the Council shall not vote so
to elect.
 Sxcr.  He shall rise to address the Board, to state
facts or to put question, but may read sitting.
Sect.  When question is under debate, the president shall receive no motion but to adjourn, to lay on
the table for the previous question, to postpone to certain day, to commit, to amend, or to postpone indefinitely, which several motions shall have precedence in
the order in which they are arranged. He shall declare
all votes; but if vote be doubted, he shall require the
members, without debate, voting in the affirmative and
in the negative, successively to rise and stand until they
are counted; and shall then announce the result.

  Common Council.

Sect.  He may call any member to the chair for a
period of time not extending beyond an adjournment;
and, when out of the chair, the president may participate
in any debate, but shall not resume the chair while the

: same question is pending; and on going into committee of the whole, he shall appoint chairman.

SEcT.  Questions shall be propounded in the order
in which they are moved, unless the subsequent motion
be previous in its nature, except that in naming sums
and fixing times, the largest sum and the longest time
shall be put first.

Sect.  After motion is stated by the president, it
shall be disposed of by vote of the Board, unless withdrawn by the mover before an amendment or decision.

. SrEctT.  motion to adjourn shall always be in
order; that and the motion to lay on the table, shall be
decided without debate.

SrecT.  The previous question shall be in this
form: ‘Shall the main question be now put?’ It shall
only be admitted when demanded by majority of the
members present; and until it is decided, shall preclude
all amendments and debate of the main question; and
after the adoption of the previous question, the sense of
the Board shall forthwith be taken upon amendments
reported by committee, upon all pending amendments,
and then upon the main question.

SEcT.  On all questions and motions whatsoever,
the president shall take the sense of the Board by yeas
and nays, provided one fifth of the members present
shall so require.

Sect.  When two or more members rise at the ,
same time, the president shall name the menber who is
to speak first. |

SEcT.  No member shall be mentioned in the
debate by his name, but may be described by the place
he occupies, or such other designation as may be intelligible and respectful.

Common Council.  
RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS.

Sect.  In the absence of the president, the oldest
member present shal] call the council to order, and preside until president pro tempore shall be chosen by
ballot; and if an election is not effected on the first trial,
on second ballot plurality of votes shallelect. When
any member is about to speak in the Council, he shall
rise in his place and respectfully address the presidng
officer, confining himself to the question under debate
and avoid personality.

SEcT.  No member speaking shall be interrupted
by another but by call to order or to correct mistake;
and any member may call any trangressor of the rules
of the Council to order, who shall thereupon immediately
sit down, unless permitted to explain, and the Council,
if appealed to, shall decide the case. If the decision be
in favor of the member called to order he shall be at liberty to prod; if otherwise he shall not prod.

SEcT.  No member shall speak more than twice to
the same question, or more than ten minutes at each
time, without obtaining leave of the Council; and all
questions relating to priority of business shall be taken
without debate.

SecT.  While the president or any other member
is speaking, no one shall stand up or pass unnecessarily
before the person speaking.

Ssor.  Every motion shall be reduced to writing,
if the president or any member requires it.

Sect.  The motion for the reconsideration of vote
shall be in order for immediate consideration, if made
by member voting with the majority; or if notice be
given by any member at the meeting at which the vote
passed it shall be in order at the next meeting, and not
afterwards, and vote deciding motion to reconsider
shall not be reconsidered.

  Common Council.

SEoT.  Every member who shall be in the Council
when question is put shall give his vote unless the
Council for special reasons excuses him, or unless his
private interests are involved therein.

SEcT.  No motion or proposition on subject different from that under consideration shall be admitted
under color of an amendment.

— Sxror.  All questions shall be divided when the
sense will admit of it, if called for by any member of
the Board.

  S$xror.  No rule or standing order of the Bourd
shall be suspended unless three-fourths of the members
present consent thereto; nor shall any rule or order be
repealed or amended, unless notice of the proposed
repeal or amendment was given at the next preceding
meeting, nor unless majority of the whole Board concur therein.

Srct.  At each regular meeting of the Council, the
order of business shall be as follows:—

 st. Reading records of the preceding meeting.

 d. Presentations of petitions, remonstrances and
memorials.

 d. Papers from the Board of Mayor and Aldermen.

 th. Unfinished business of preceding meetings.

 th. Communications and reports from city officers
and boards of commissioners.

 th. Motions, orders and resolutions.

 th. Reports of committees.

Which order shall be adhered to as rule of the
Council.

SrcoT.  All papers addressed to the Board shall be
presented by the president or clerk, or such other person as the president may request, and shall be taken up
in the order in which they were presented, unless when
the Board shall otherwise direct.

Common Council.  

Sect.  Nocommittee shall sit during the sitting
of the Board without special leave, except the Committee on Enrollment.

SEcT.  The rules of proding in the Board shall
be observed in the Committee of the Whole, so far as
may be applicable, except the rules limiting the time of
speaking.

Sect.  When committee is nominated by the
chair, the first person named shall be the chairman. In
elections of committees by ballot when the chairman is
not specially chosen, the person having the highest
number of votes shall act as chairman and in case of
an equality of votes between two or more members of a
committee, the members thereof shall choose chairman.

SEcT.  Every ordinance shall pass through the
following stages before it shall be considered as having
received the final action of this Board, viz: first reading, second reading, passage to be enrolled, passage to be
ordained but no ordinance shall have more than one
reading on the same day.

SECT.  All orders and resolutions imposing penalties or authorizing the expenditure or payment of money
shall have two several readings before they shall be
finally passed by this Board; but they shall not have
more than one reading on the same day, except orders
to authorize the printing of city documents.

SEcT.  The seats of the Common Council shall be
numbered and determined by lot, and no member shall
change his seat but by permission of the president.

SEecT.  All committees of the Council shall consist of three members, unless different number shall
be specially ordered, and no report shall be received
from any committee unless agreed to in committee actually assembled and all reports shall be in writing.

Sect.  It shall be the duty of every committee of

  Common Council.

the Council, to whom any subject may be specially
referred, to report thereon within two weeks, or at the
next regular meeting, or ask further time.

SEecT.  Members of the Council may attend meetings of any of its committees, but shall not vote thereat.

Sect.  Standing committees shall be appointed on
ordinances, on enrollment, and on elections and returns.

Sect. All motions and reports may be committed
or recommitted, at the pleasure of the Council, and
when motion is made to refer the subject, and different committees are proposed, the question shall be taken
in the following order :

A standing committee of the Council.

A select committee of the Council.

A joint standing committee.

A joint special committee.

Sect.  The reading of paper, when called for
and objected to, shall be determined by vote of the
Council.

SECT.  No member shall be obliged to serve on
more than three committees at the same time, nor be
chairman of more than cne; nor be on any committee
having in charge matter touching his individual interest.

DUTIES OF CLERK, ETC.

Srecr.  The clerk shall keep brief minutes of the
votes and prodings of the Council, entering thereon
all accepted resolutions shall notice reports and memorials, and other papers submitted to the Board, only by
their titles, or brief description of their purport.
When the yeas and nays are taken, the clerk shall call
the names of all the members, except the president, in
alphabetical order.

SEoT.  The clerk of the Common Council shall
keep the records of committees who may require that

Common Council.  
service and on the appointment of every standing committee, book for record shall be provided by its chairman or by said clerk and the clerk shall have the custody of all the minutes by him kept, and the records of
the several committees shall be open to the inspection of
the members of the City Council.
Sect.  The clerk shall notify, in writing, the
chairman of all committees of the Council of the appointment of such committee.

Joint Rules and Orders of City Council.
ge

SECTION  At the commencement of the municipal
year, the following Joint Standing Committees shall be
chosen or appointed by their respective Boards, to-wit:

lst. CoMMITTEE ON FiInancE.—To consist of the
Mayor, one Alderman, the President of the Common
Council, and two members of the same.

 d. COMMITTEE ON AccouNtTs.—To consist of two
Aldermen and three members of the Common Council.

 d.. COMMITTEE ON HIGHWAYS, SIDEWALKS AND
BripeEs.—To consist of the Mayor, three Aldermen and
four members of the Common Council, one member from
each ward of the city.

 th. COMMITTEE on CITY PROoPERTY.—To consist
of three Aldermen and four members of the Common
Council, one from each ward of the city.

 th. CoMMITTEE ON FIRE DEPARTMENT.—To consist of three Aldermen and four members of the Common
Council, one from each ward of the city.

 th. COMMITTEE ON FUEL AND STREET LIGHTS.—
To consist of two Aldermen and three members of the
Common Council.

 th. CoMMITTEE ON EDucaTiIon.—To consist of two
Aldermen and three members of the Common Council.

Sth. COMMITTEE ON CLAIMS.—To consist of three
Alderman and four members of the Common Council,
one from each ward of the city.

 th. COMMITTEE ON Ciry ENGINEERING.—To consist of two Aldermen and three members of the Common
Council.

City Council.  th. COMMITTEE ON PRINTING.—To consist of one
Alderman and two members of the Common Council.

 th. COMMITTEE ON PAUPER DEPARTMENT.—ToO
consist of two Aldermen and three members of the Common Council. :

 th COMMITTEE ON SEWERS AND DRains.—To
consist of three Aldermen and four members of the Common Council, one from each ward of the city.

Stor.  In all joint committees the number of members from the Common Council shall be one, at least,
greater than the number from the Board of Aldermen.

SrotT.  The Mayor shall ‘be ex-officio chairman of
any joint committee of which he is member; and of
other joint committees, the first-named member of the
Board of Aldermen, and in case of his resignation or
absence, or neglect for the space of ten days to call a
meeting of the committee, the next-named member of
the same Board, and afterwards the member of the
Common Council first in order, shall call the meetings of
the committee and act as chairman. And whenever the
chairman of any such committee shall fail to call a
meeting of its members for the space of ten days, from
the time any subject has been referred to it, after having

, been requested to do so, any two of the members of any
such joint committee shall have power to call meetings
thereof.

Srecr.  All by-laws passed by the City Council shall
be termed ‘‘Ordinances,’’ and the enacting style shall be,
‘‘Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows :—”’

SrorT.  In all votes in which either or both branches
of the City Council express anything by way of command, the form of expression shall be ‘‘Ordered,”’
(except only in case of ordinance); and whenever either
branch or both branches express opinions, principles,
facts or purposes, the form of expression shall be,
‘“Resolved.”’

  City Council.

Sect.  When either Board shall not concur with
the other in any ordinance, order or resolution, sent
from such other, notice of such non-concurrence shall
forthwith be given, and the paper returned.

SEcT.  In every case of disagreement on any matter
requiring the joint action of the two Boards, if either
Board shall request conference, and appoint committee for that purpose, the other Board shall appoint a
committee to confer with them, and said committee shall
meet within ten days, at time appointed by the
chairman of the committee on the part of the Board
requesting the conference, and report to their respective
branches; and any paper adopted in one Board, and no
action reported thereon by the other within six weeks,
shall be held to be case of disagreement within the
meaning of this section.

SrEot.  Each Board shall transmit to the other all
papers on which any ordinance, joint order or resolve,
shall be founded, and all papers, on their passage
between the two Boards, shall be under the signature of
their respective clerks or presiding officers.

Sect.  Whenever messages between the two Boards
are transmitted by messenger, they shall be in writing.

Secor.  Either Board may propose to the other for
its concurrence time to which both shall adjourn,

' which subject shall have precedence over other business;
and when the time has been fixed, either Board may
adjourn unless it is otherwise requested, and the reasons
therefor are given by the board making the request.

SEecT  The reports of all committees, signed by a
majority of the members thereof, may be made to either
Board.

Sror.  No committee shall act by separate consultation and no reports, except minority reports, shall
be received, unless they shall have been agreed to in
committee actually assembled.

City Council.  

SecrT.  It shall be the duty of every joint committee to whom any subject shall be specially referred,
unless otherwise ordered, to report thereon within two
weeks, or at the next regular meeting, or ask for further
time. ,

Sect.  No chairman of any committee shall audit
or approve any bill or account against the city for any
supplies or service which shall not have been ordered or
authorized by the committee. And no committee shall
enter into any contract with, or purchase, or authorize
the purchase of any article of any of its members.

Srcot.  All reports and other papers submitted to
the City Council shall be written in fair hand, properly
indorsed; and the clerks of the Boards respectively
shall make copies of any papers to be reported by com- |
mittees, at the request of the respective chairmen
thereof.

SrcT.  No business shall be transacted by the
City Council in convention except such as shall have
been previously agreed on, unless by unanimous consent.

SEecT.  Joint standing committees shall cause rec- |
ords to be kept of their prodings, in books provided
by the city for that purpose.

SrcT.  Every joint resolution shall have as many
readings in each Board as the rules of that Board
require, after which the question shall be on passing the
same, and when the same shall have been passed, it
shall be sent to the other Board for concurrence and
when such resolution shall have so passed in each
Board, the same shall be enrolled by the clerk of the
Common Council, and examined by committee of that ,
Board and on being found by said committee to be
correctly enrolled, without further reading or question
shall be signed by the president of the Common Council,
and sent to the other Board, where like examination

  City Council.

shall be made by acommittee of that Board, and if
found correctly enrolled, the same shall be presented to
the Mayor for his approval and signature.

Sect.  All ordinances, before being read second
time, shall be referred to the Committee on Ordinances,
and after being reported upon by said committee, shall
be again read, after which several readings, the question
shall be on passing the same to be enrolled.

SecT.  Every ordinance shall have as many readings in each Board as the rules of the Board require,
after which the question shall be on passing the same to
be enrolled, and when the same shall have passed to be :
enrolled, it shall be sent to the other Board for concurrence and when such ordinance shall have so passed to
be enrolled in each Board, the same shall be enrolled by
the Clerk of the Common Council, and examined by a
conimittee of that Board, and on being found by said
committee to be correctly enrolled, the same shall be
reported to the Council, when the question shall be on
passing the same to be ordained; and when said ordinance shall have so passed to be ordained, it shall be
signed by the president of the Common Council and sent
to the other Board, where like examination shall be
made by committee of that Board, and if found correctly enrolled, the same shall be reported to the Board,
and the question shall be on passing the same to be
ordained and when the same shall have passed to be
ordained, it shall be presented to the Mayor for his
approval and signature.

SEoT.  After the annual appropriations have been
made, no subsequent expenditure shall be authorized for
any object unless provision for the same shall be made
by special transfer from some of the annual appropria
tions, or by expressly created therefor city debt; but
no such debt shall be created unless the order authorizing the same pass by the affirmative vote of two-thirds

City Council.  
of the whole number of each branch of the City Council,
voting by yeas and nays. ,
SEoT.  The City Clerk shall be clerk of the City
Council in convention.
To Persons Having Claims Against
the City.

It is very desirable that bills presented for payment
should specify what the article or articles were for, and
when for labor, where it was performed, with proper
dates.

If persons having bills against the city would be more
careful in specifying particulars, it would enable the
auditor to prepare his annual report with much less
trouble.

All bills against the city should be made out to
include the last day of the month, and presented to the
auditor on or before the first day of the following month,
and be payable the fifteenth day of each month.

Items charged to different appropriations should be
made on separate bills. |

All bills not presented as above will lie over until the
next month.

MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN, Auditor.

Office, Room No.  City Hall. Office hours, from  

| A. M. to P. M., and from to o’clock, P. M.

City Officers.
ag
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN. |
Ward  .—William Grover. Ward  .—John O’ Donnell.
Ward  .—H. A. Chase. Ward —G. W. Prentiss.
Ward —August Stursberg. Ward  .—J. F. Allyn.
Ward  .—John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Hey wood.

Ward  .—Curtis Moore, James Ruddy, William
Ruddy.

Ward  .—G. W. Burditt, C. B. Harris, EF. Stebbins.

Ward  Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew
Welsh.

Ward  .—W. D. Higgins, H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt.

Ward  .-—Maurice Lynch John O’Connell, J. A. Sullivan.

Ward  .—John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy
Merrick.

Ward  .—R. M. Fairfield, H. A. Pratt, Reuben
Winchester. |

Clerk.—C. W. Rider.

City Clerk.—E. A. Ramsay.

City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger.—J. H. Clifford,

|
  City Officers. |
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—William Grover. Ward  .—Edw’d O’Connor.
Ward  .—H. A. Chase. Ward  .—G. W. Prentiss.
Ward  .—Matthew Welsh. Ward  .—J. F. Allyn.
Ward  .—John H. Wright. Clerk —E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN,
President, C. H. Heywood.

Ward  .—John Moore, James Ruddy, Wm. Ruddy.

Ward  .—C. B. Harris, Fred. Morrison, G. H. Smith.

Ward  .—Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry
Winkler.

Ward  .—S. J. Donahue, Peter McKeon, E. A. Newton.

Ward  B. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R.
Donoghue.

Ward  .—John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy
Merrick.

Ward  .—Horace Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben
Winchester.

Clerk.—C. H. Rider.

City Clerk.—-E. A. Ramsay.

City Treasurer.—William Whiting.

- Messenger.—J. H. Clifford.

City Officers.  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSOoNS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—William Ruddy. Ward  .—Maurice Lynch.
Ward  .—C. B. Harris. Ward  .—C. H. Heywood.
Ward  .—H. Springborn. Ward  .—J. F. Allyn.
Ward  .—S. J. Donahue. Clerk.—E. A. Ramsay.
| COMMON COUNCILMEN.

President, G. H. Smith.

Ward  .—James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.

Ward  .—Chalmers Chapin, G. H. Smith, E. WhitaKer.

Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J.S. Webber.

Ward  .—C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’ Donnell.

Ward  .— B. F. Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M.
Manning.

Ward  .—A. D. Barker, J. E. Delaney, J. H. Newton.

, Ward  .—H. C. Ewing,  T. Lyman, R. Winchester. |
Clerk.—C. W. Rider. :
City Clerk.—E. A. Ramsay.

City Treasurer.— William Whiting.
Messenger.--J. H. Clifford, (deceased), J. R. Howes.
;

  City Officers.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, R. P. CRaFts.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—M. J. Teahan. Ward  .—D. H. Donoghue.
Ward  .—G. H. Smith. Ward  .—C. H. Heywood.
H. Springborn.* Ward  .—G. P. Ellison.
Ward  A. Stursberg.
Ward  .—S. J. Donahue. Clerk —J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. D. Colson. |

Ward  .—John Ford, Richard Pattee, C. O. Warner.

Ward  .—Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaac Tirrell.

Ward  .—A. G. Ridout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.

Ward  .—C. D. Colson, Michael Lynch, M. M. Mitivier.

Ward  .—Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E.
Sullivan.

Ward  .—E. W. Chapin, E. A. Ramsay, Porter
Underwood. |

Ward  .—John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.

Clerk.—C. W. Rider.

City Clerk.—J. E. Delaney.

City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger.—J. R. Howes.
” *Resigned.

City Officers.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—Thomas S. Grover. Ward  .—Chas. D. Colson.
Ward Chas. B. Harris.* Ward  .—D. E. Sullivan.
’ (Geo. H. Smith. Ward .—Wm. Skinner.
Ward A. Stursberg.t Ward  .—Geo. P. Ellison.
| James Stafford. Clerk.—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, F. P. GooDAut.
Ward  .—T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. E. Syms.
Ward  .—F. P. Goodall, Fred Morrison, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  .—A. G. Ridout, Jas. Stafford, E. F. Sullivan.
Ward  .—Jas. P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace St. Marie.
Ward  .—Stephen Maloney, Edward O’Connor,
Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  .—Henry C. Cady, J. S. McElwain, Levi PerKins.
Ward  .—John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk.—Simon Brooks. |
City Clerk.—James E. Delaney. |
City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger.—James R. Howes.
*Died March +tResigned.

  City Officers.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—William Ruddy. Ward  .—D. E. Sullivan.
Ward  .—F. R. Norton. Ward  .—William Skinner:
Ward  .—Henry Winkler. Ward  .—Wnm. S. Perkins.
Ward  .—Chas. D. Colson. Clerk.—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John O’ Donnell.

Ward  .—G. C. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D.
Walsh.

Ward  .—John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin
P. Goodall.

Ward  .—John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.

Ward  .—Victor Guyott, Peter McKeon, T. J. Ryan.

Ward  .—Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John
O’ Donnell.

Ward  .—H. C. Cady, J.  McElwain, Levi Perkins.

Ward  .—Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick,
Marden W. Prentiss

Clerk.—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk.—James E. Delaney.

City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger,—James R. Howes.

City Officers.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WiLLtamM Ruppy.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—John D. Walsh. Ward  .—John O’ Donnell.
Ward  .—F. R. Norton Ward  .—Chas. A. Corser.
Ward  .—Henry Winkler. Ward  .—Wm.  Perkins
Ward  .—James P. Casey.  Clerk.—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James Greeley.

 Ward  .—John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger.

Ward  .—John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W.
Maher.

Ward  .—John L. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John
McDonald.

Ward  —Peter Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran,
Timothy J. Ryan.

Ward  .—Michael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy
Haley.

Ward  .—Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin
A. Whiting. ,

Ward —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John
B. Munn.

Clerk.—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk.—James EK. Delaney.

City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger.—Charles M. Hackett.

 

  City Officers.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, F. P. GooDALt.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—Casper Ranger. Ward  .—D. J. Landers.
Ward  .—Fred. Morrison Ward  —E. A. Whiting.
Ward  .—P. J. Sheridan. Ward  .—R. Winchester.
Ward  .—Thomas Dillon. Clerk.—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN,
President, Hervey K. Hawes.

Ward  .—Michael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel S.
Chapman.

Ward  .—Royal C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller,
Dwight O. Judd.

Ward  .—Herbert Hicks, Lyman F. Thorpe, Charles
R. Huebler.

Ward  .—George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis
E. Herbert.

Ward  .—James  Lee, John F’. Shea, Thomas Pendergast.

Ward  .—Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry
H. Smith.

Ward  .—Charles C. Hastings, Lyman B. Moore,
John B. Munn.

Clerk—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk.—J. E. Delaney.

City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger.—Charles M. Hackett.

City Officers.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, RoswEuu P. CRaFTs.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—Casper Ranger. Ward  .—John O’ Donnell.
Ward  .—Isaac Tirrell. Ward  .—Wnm. A. Chase.
Ward  .—C. R. Huebler. Ward  .—W. T. Dean.
Ward  .—Thomas Dillon. Clerk.—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Amos Andrews.

Ward  .—Wm. Brennan, James Spillane, William H.
Jess.

Ward  .—E. R. Pierce, Joseph Beauchemin, George
W. Richards.

Ward  J. K. McCarthy, D. Driscoll, W. E.
O’ Keefe.

Ward  Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. Connor, J. J.
Prew. .

Ward  .—Manrice Lynch, Thomas  Pendergast,
Michael O’ Keefe.

Ward  .—Amos Andrews, H. H. Smith, Joseph A. !
Snell.

Ward  .—C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker.

Clerk.—J. F. Stapleton.

City Clerk.--J. E. Delaney.

City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger.—Charles M. Hackett.

  City Officers.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, RoswELL P. CRarFrs.
ALDERMEN,
Ward  .—Casper Ranger. Ward  .—John O’ Donnell.
Ward  .—Isaac Tirrell. Ward  .—Charles A. Corser
Ward  .—John T. Lynch. Ward  .—Wilbert T. Dean.
Ward  .—Thomas Dillon. Clerk.--M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. O. Warner.

Ward  .—-Wm. H. Jess, John Sheridan, M. C. Brown.

Ward  .—Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O.
Warner.

Ward  J. K. McCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J.
Westphal.

Ward  .—Dennis KE. Herbert, Frank  Lynch, J. J.
Prew. |

Ward  .--P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William
Sullivan.

Ward  .—Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.

Ward  .—C. U. Hastings, D. H. Ives, A. N. Ricker.

Clerk.—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk.—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer.—Charles W. Ranlet.

Messenger.—Charles M. Hackett. |

City Officers.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—James Greeley. Ward  .—Edward O’ Connor.
Ward  .—Isaac Tirrell. Ward  .—Elias P. Ford.
Ward  .—John T. Lynch. Ward  .—C. C. Hastings.
Ward  .—--John Dillon. Clerk.—-M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue.
Ward  .—John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey.
Ward  .—Gecrge W. Richards, Didace St. Marie,
Thomas H. Sears.
Ward  .—John Lowcock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.
Ward  .—*Wm. Sullivan, Matthew Doherty; Thomas
O’ Donnell, Amede F. Gingras.
Ward  .— Roger P. Donughue, Thomas J. Carmody,
Michael Manning.
Ward  .—Charles P. Lyman, Eli I. Brockett, John J.
Reardon.
Ward  .—Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel
M. Gilmore.
Clerk.—John F’. Stapleton.
City Clerk.— Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer.—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger. William T. Walsh.
 *Died November .

  City Officers.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES BK. DELANEY.
| ALDERMEN.
Ward  .—Wm. Reardon. Ward  .—R. P. Donoghue.
Ward  Thos. H. Sears Ward  .—Eli I. Brockett.
Ward  .—J. K. McCarthy. Ward  .—John E. Clark.
Ward  .—John J. Prew. Clerk.—M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.

Ward  .—John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G.
McCarthy.

Ward  .—John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F.
Doyle.

Ward  .—Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F.
Canavan.

Ward  .—Thomas O’ Donnell, P. F. Carmody, Matthew
Doherty.

Ward  .—T. J. Carmody, James  S. Lee, Thomas T.
Fitzgerald.

Ward  .—Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting, John
L. Burlingame.

Ward  .—John K. Judd, S. B. Allyn, *S. M. Gilmore, George W. Doane.

Clerk.—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk.—M. J. Griffin.

City Treasurer.—E. L. Munn.

Messenger. William T. Walsh.
 -*Resigned.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty-F ive.
AN ORDINANCE RELATIVE TO PLUMBING AND HOUSE
DRAINAGE.

Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows —

By virtue of the authority given to the Boards of
Health by Chapter of the Acts of the Legislature of
 the Board of Health of the City of Holyoke, Mass.,
hereby adopt the following regulations for the construction of house drainage:

SECTION  On every street provided with common
sewer the sewage from each building on said street shall
be conducted into the common sewer.

Srkot.  That portion of the house drain which is
outside of the building and more than four feet from
the foundation walls shall be constructed of iron pipe,
cement drain-pipe, or vitrified drain-pipe. That portion }
of the drain-pipe outside or under the building and
within four feet of the foundation walls, together with
the soil pipe, shall be constructed of cast-iron with
leaded joints. The waste pipe connecting the sewer
with the conductors from the roofs, and other pipes
inside the building or outside, shall be constructed of
iron with leaded joints, to height four feet above the
surface of the ground.

|

  Ordinances.

Secor.  The house drain and other pipes for the conveyance of sewage shall be laid with uniform grade and
with fall of not less than one inch in four feet except
in those cases where the city engineer may permit otherwise

SecT.  The main house drain shall be provided
with trap which shall be located outside the house
walls and beyond all house connections. All pipes connecting water closet with soil pipe shall be trapped,
each separately and close to the connection with each
water-closet. All water pipes shall be trapped, and each
separately, and close to the connection with each bath,
sink, bowl or other fixture.

Srot. All soil pipes shall be carried at their full
size through the roof and left open. All ventilating
pipes, when possible, should be conducted into the hot
air flue of the chimneys. The use of unnecessary pipes
should be avoided as well as omitting those which are |
necessary.

Secor.  The joints in the vitrified pipe shall be carefully cemented under and around the pipe and the
joints in the cast-iron pipe should be run and calked
with lead. All changes in directions shall be made with
curved pipes and all connections shall be made with Y
branch pipes. All joints and pipes shall be made air
tight. The whole work to be executed by skilful
mechanics in thorough and workmanlike manner and
satisfactory to the Board of Health.

SecT.  Before proding to construct any portion
of the drainage system of hotel, tenement, dwelling
house or other building, or make any changes in the
existing drainage system, the owner, builder or person
constructing the same shall file with the city engineer a
plan thereof, showing the whole drainage system from
its connection with the common sewer to its terminus in
the house, together with the location and size of all

Ordinances.  
branches, traps, ventilating pipes and fixtures, and said
plan must be in accordance with the ordinances relating
thereto, and endorsed with the word ‘‘Approved,”’
signed by the City Engineer and kept on file in his office.

All drains now built shall be reconstructed whenever
in the opinion of the Board of Health it may be necessary.

In Common CounciL, June .

Passed to be ordained.

THomas J. CARMODY,
President.
| In BOARD OF ALDERMEN, June .

Passed to be ordained.

JAMES E. DELANEY,
Mayor.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty-Five.
AN ORDINANCE REVISING THE ARDS OF THE CITY.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of

Holyoke, as follows :

The City of Holyoke is hereby divided into seven
wards, described as follows, viz: -Section  Ward No. Beginning at the headgates
of the upper level canal, thence following the line of the
upper level canal until it intersects with the center line
of Hampden street produced to said canal, thence east
erly in straight line to the intersection of Mosher street
with Crescent street, thence easterly on Mosher street to
its intersection with Bowers street, thence southerly on
Bowers street to Dwight street, thence southeasterly on
Dwight street, in direct line to Connecticut River,
thence northerly by said River to place of beginning.

SroT.  Ward No Beginning at the intersection
of the center line of Hampden street produced with the
upper level canal, thence easterly in straight line to
the intersection of Mosher and Crescent streets, thence
easterly on Mosher street to Bowers street, thence
southerly on Bowers street to Dwight street, thence
southeasterly on Dwight street to Connecticut River,
thence southerly by said River to the overfall of the
third level canal, thence westerly by said overfall to the

Ordinances.  
third level canal, thence northeasterly by said third level
canal to its intersection with Hamilton street, thence
westerly by Hamilton street to the second level canal,
thence in straight line to the intersection of the upper
level canal with the center line of Hampshire street produced to said upper level canal, thence northerly by
said upper level canal to place of beginning.

SEcT.  Ward No.  Beginning at the point of
intersection of the center line of Hampshire street with
the center line of Chestnut street, thence running southwesterly in the line of said Chestnut street to South
street, thence southeasterly on said South street to the
County Road, thence southerly by said County Road to
the south line of the city, thence easterly by said line to
the Connecticut River, thence northerly by said river to
the overfall of the third level canal, thence northeasterly
by the third level canal to Hamilton street, thence northwesterly by the line of said Hamilton street and Hampshire street to the place of beginning.

Sror.  Ward No.  Comprises all that portion of
the city bounded southwesterly by Dwight street, northwesterly by Maple street, Cedar street, and the line of
said streets produced northeasterly to the upper level
canal, and northeasterly and southeasterly by the said
upper level canal.

Srot.  Ward No.  Beginning at the point of
intersection of the line of Maple and Suffolk streets,
thence running northeasterly by Maple street and Cedar
street and the line of said streets produced to the first
level canal, thence northerly by said first level canal and
the Connecticut River to the line of Thorpe street produced, thence southerly by the line of said Thorpe
street produced to Suffolk street, thence southeasterly
by the line of said Suffolk street to the place of beginning.

Sect.  Ward No,  Beginning at the point of

  Ordinances.
intersection of the first level canal with the line of
Dwight street, thence running northwesterly on said |
Dwight street to Maple street, thence southwesterly on
said Maple street to Suffolk street, thence northwesterly
on said Suffolk street to Pine street, thence southwesterly on said Pine street to Norfolk street, thence southeasterly on said Norfolk street to Chestnut street,
thence northeasterly on said Chestnut street to Hampshire street, thence southeasterly on said Hampshire
street to first level canal, thence northeasterly on the
line of said first level canal to the place of beginning.
SEcT.  Ward No  This ward is hereby described
as embracing all that portion of the city lying westerly
and southwesterly of the wards as hereinbefore
described. Srct.  This Ordinance shall take effect on the first
day of January,  .
In Common Council, Dec. .
Passed to be ordained.
: THomas J. Carmopy, President.
In BoaRD oF ALDERMEN, Dec. .
Passed to be ordained.
JAMES E. DELANEY, Mayor.

LOCATION OF FIRE ALARM
TELEGRAPH BOXES.
  Mount Tom Hose House; Keys at Hol. W. P. Co.’s
Office and Hose House.

  Cor. Center and Lyman Sts.; keys at E. N. Gates’
Drug Store, Lyman St., and J. W. Clough’s, 
Lyman St.

  Cor. Center and Mosher Sts.; keysat J.C. Keough’s,
  Center St., and J. W. Mullin’s, Mosher St.

  Winona Paper Co. Private Box; keys at Office and
with watchman.

  Syms Dudley Paper Co. Private Box; keys at
Office and with watchman.

  Nonotuck Paper Co. Private Box; keys at Office
and with watchman.

 Albion Paper Co. Private Box; keys at Office and
with watchman.

  Valley Paper Co. Private Box; keys at Office and
with watchman.

  Hadley Thread Co. Private Box; keys at Office
and with watchman.

  Parsons PaperCo. Private Box; keys at Office and
with watchman.

  Whiting Paper Co., No.  Private Box; keys at
Office and with watchman.

  Hampden Cotton Mills. Private Box; keys at
Office and with watchman.

  Cor. Appleton and Bigelow Sts.; keys at Silk Mill
and D. Mackintosh Son’s Office.

  Fire Alarm Telegraph.

  Cor. Mainand Spring Sts.; keys at G. W. Richards’,
  Main St., H. M. Senior’s Store and Patrick
Flynn’s, Main St. |

  Cor. Canal and Cabot Sts.; keys at Holyoke Foundry
Co., J. W. Toole’s, Canal St. and Chalmers
Chapin’s, Canal St.

  Cor. Dwight and Main Sts.; keys at Holyoke House,
D. Holden’s Store, and H. H. Carter’s Livery
Stable.

  Whiting Paper Co., No.  Private Box; keys in
the Building and with watchman.

  Massasoit Paper Co. Private Box; keys in office
and with watchman.

  Farr Alpaca Co. Private Box; keys in Office and
with watchman.

  Wauregan Paper Co. Private Box; Keys at Office
and with Watchman.

  H. W. P. Co. Building, Cabot St. Private Box;
keys in the Building.

  Franklin Paper Co. Private Box; keys at Office
and with watchman.

  Cor. Main and Sargeant Sts.; keys at J. E. Curran’s
Drug Store and Engine House.

  Cor Bridge and Adams Sts.; keys at W. Wagner's
  Adams St., and Market, Adams St.

  Cor. Mainand Canal Sts.; keys at Holyoke Paper

. Co.’s Office and E. H. Potwin’s, Main St.

  Holyoke Machine Co. Private Box; keys at Office
and with watchman.

  Germania Mill. Private Box; keys at Cflice and
with watchman.

  Chemical Paper Co. Keys with watchman and in
the mill.

  Merrick Thread Co. Private Box; keys at Office
and with watchman.

  Cor. High and Lyman Sts.; key at M. J. Finn’s
Store.

fire Alarm Telegraph.  

  Cor. Union and Fountain Sts.; keys at V. Moquin’s,
  Union St. and F. Godu, Union St

  Lyman Mills. Private Box; keys at Office and with
watchman.

  Emerald Hose House.; keys at J. O’Leary’s,  
Lyman St. and Hose House.

  Cor. Lyman and Walnut Sts keys at John O’ Donnell’s store and house.

  Engine House, High St.; keys at P. J. Donnelly’s
Store and Engine House, High St.

  Cor. Newton and Cabot Sts.; keys at Henry Thomas’,
  Newton St. and James Welsh’s, Cabot St.,
near Bond.

  Cor. Maple and Sargeant Sts.; keys at M. D. Sullivan’s and Rev. P. B. Phelan’s.

  Cor. Appleton and Walnut Sts.; keys at C.C. Jenks’,
  Elm St. and Val Moquin’s, cor. Pine and
Walnut Sts.

  Cor. Dwight and Linden Sts.; keys at E. P. Ford’s,
  Dwight St. and F. L. Taber’s, Dwight St.

  Cor. Dwight and Front Sts.; keys at Chase Bros.’
Drug Store and Windsor Hotel.

  Cor. Hampden and Pleasant Sts.; keys at J. B.
Munn’s, Pleasant St., and J.  Preston, Jr’s,
  Pleasant St.

  Cor. Hampden and Northampton Sts.; keys at
Crafts’ Hotel and C. C. Judd’s, Northampton St.

  Cor. South and Northampton Sts.; keys at R. Winchester’s and Rev. E. M. Bartlett’s.

  Ward Seven Engine House; keys at A. A. Jones’
and Engine House.

The Fire Engineers and Policemen have keys.

  Fire Alarm Telegraph.
SIGNALS.

 One stroke calls the Superintendent of Fire Alarm
Telegraph.

  Two single strokes for fire out or under control.

  Thirty-three, for General Fire Alarm.

  Eight. Special Alarm calling Ward
Seven Companies to fires in the other wards.

TESTS.

  One stroke at a. mM. One stroke at P. M.

Bn

:
Digitized by Google

| ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
SCHOOL COMMITTEE
OF THE
ULL OF ROLYOKE
FOR THE
SCHOOL YEAR  .
eei
Ghai soy
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING COMPANY.
 |

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
ScHOOL CoMMITTEE Room, Dec. .

At meeting of the School Committee, held this evening, was received the report of the Special Committee |
on Annual Report, together with the reports of the
Committees on Evening Schools and Drawing and Writing, and those of the Secretary and Superintendent of
Schools and the Truant Officers, all of which were
adopted as the Report of the School Committee. The
Committee on Text Books, Printing and Supplies was
instructed to publish or cause to be published five
hundred copies of the Annual Report, in addition to
those incorporated in the Municipal Register. |

Attest: EDWIN L. KIRTLAND, ,
Secretary.

ORGANIZATION
OF THE
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Hon. JAMES J. CONNOR, Mayor.
CHAIRMAN.
| EDWIN L. KIRTLAND,
SECRETARY AND SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS.
Aq GEO. H. SMITH, Term expires  
P MARGE,  SIMON BROOKS,  
Warp  .—JOHN W. MULLEN, 
Warp  .—CHALMERS CHAPIN,  
Warn  .—HENRY WINKLER, ‘“  
Warp  .—JAMES TIERNEY,  
Warp  .—DANIEL F. DONOGHUE,  
Warp  .—JOHN J. REARDON, ‘“ 
Warp  .—EMBURY P. CLARK,  

DISTRICT COMMITTEES.
High School Committee.
Messrs, SMITH, CLARK AND DONOGHUE.

ScHOoL.—Elm Street. Number of pupils, Dec.  ,
 .

First District Committee. }
Messrs. REARDON, Brooks, DONOGHUE.

ScHooLs.—Lyman St., Dwight St., Chestnut St.,
Ewingville, Nonotuck St., Northampton St., West Holyoke. Number of pupils, Dec. .

Second District Committee.
Messrs. SMITH, WINKLER, MULLEN.

ScHooLs.—Appleton St., South Chestnut St., Elmwood, West St. Number of Pupils, Dec. .

Third District Committee.
Messrs. CLARK, TIERNEY, CHAPIN.

ScHooLs.—Park St., Sargeant St., Ingleside. Number of pupils, Dec. .
Superintendent’s Office—City Hall. .

OrricE Hours.—  a. m. to P. m., school
days, and from to p. m. Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, and from a. mM. to M. Saturdays, during
term time.

STANDING COMMITTEES.

On ELEcTIONS.—Messrs. Mullen, Reardon, Winkler.

On RuLES AND REGULATIONS.—Messrs. Donoghue,
Smith, Reardon.

On AccounTs AND FINnancre.—Messrs. Reardon,
Clark, Brooks.

On SALARIES.—Messrs. Winkler, Brooks, Tierney.

On Music.—Messrs. Winkler, Chapin, Mullen.

On Text Books, PRINTING AND SUPPLIES.—Messrs. |
Clark, Tierney, Smith.

On ScHoot Housks AND REPAIRS.—Messrs. Chapin, )
Tierney, Brooks.

On Eventne Scuoois.—Messrs. Tierney, Mullen,
Clark.

On DRAWING AND Writine.—Messrs. Donoghue,
Clark, Chapin.

On ATTENDANCE AND TRUANCY.—Messrs. Brooks,
Reardon, Smith.

, Digitized by Google

Report of School Committee.

The School Committee herewith submit their annual
report to the citizens of Holyoke. It is with pleasure,
that they call attention to the marked improvement that
is being made in the schools with each sucding year,
and the prosperity that has attended them during the
past year.

By referring to the reports of the Superintendent of
Schools and Truant Officer T. W. Doyle, you will perceive that the school census of this year shows that the |
school population of the city is constantly increasing,
the enrollment of pupils in the schools exds that of
any previous year except  and the percentage of
attendance is fully up to the average.

Now as natural consequence, this increase in attendance at our schools, demands more school accommoda- —
tions,and such accommodations should be provided by the
City Council within reasonable time. Two years ago
the School Committee requested the City Council to take
such action as would relieve the crowded condition of
the Park and Sargeant Streetsschools. As temporary
relief, basement rooms were fitted up in these buildings,
but the increase in attendance has been so large, that
although about one hundred pupils have been transferred to the new school building on Chestnut Street,
still it was necessary to continue the use of these rooms :
to accommodate the scholars in that district. In the
spring of  the Committee again requested the City
Council to act upon this matter without delay, but

  Report of School Committee.

owing toa difference of opinion in regard to the selection of suitable location for school building, as yet
no definite action has been taken. At the regular meeting of the Board in November, the Committee, taking
into consideration the fact that the health of both teachers and pupils was seriously affected by occupancy
of the basement rooms, and being unwilling to further
jeopardize the health and life of teachers and pupils,
determined to remove the schools to some more suitable
and healthy location. This has been done, and the
Committee has rented rooms which will accommodate
the schools for the present, trusting that the City
Council of will, as soon as possible, previde new
and suitable school building, where the life, health and
well-being of its inmates, shall receive such consideration as they are justly entitled to and the public
welfare demands. The Committee would recommend that
the new school building contain twelve rooms, instead
of eight as has been the case in all school buildings that
have lately been erected, for by the time new building
can be completed, there will be in that district enough
scholars to occupy eight rooms at once, and it is desirable that there should be few rooms provided for the
future needs of that rapidly growing district.

The South Chestnut Street school house was opened in
April of the present year, and it is the pleasantest and
best equipped school house in the city. Seven rooms
are now in use, and the one remaining unoccupied will
soon be needed. ,

We would call your attention to the recommendation
in our report for  relative to the High School. The
number of scholars is increasing each year, and the
accommodations are so limited that at the present time
the class that entered in suffers serious inconvenience from want of more room in the study hall. The
class that will enter in promises to be the largest

Report of School Committee.  
that has ever graduated from the Grammar School, and
how to find room for them in the present building is at
the present time problem not easily solved. In the
near future new building will have to be erected, or
the present one enlarged. The committee would
renew the recommendation of last year, that the ‘‘incoming City Government consider the practicability of
removing the buildings of the Holyoke Water Works
on Elm street to another locality, and the use of these
premises for an addition to the present High School
building.”’

The system of general examinations for admission to
the High School, which was adopted last year, gives
general satisfaction, and is an improvement on the
method formerly pursued.

The reports of the Superintendent and various sub- |
committees, contain many valuable suggestions and
much that is of interest to all who are interested in the
public schools in this city.

In accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth,
the committee have established and maintained evening
schools during the past year, and have endeavored to
make them as successful as possible, so that they might
inure to the benefit of those for whom they were especlally designed. Various methods have been adopted to
render the attendance regular, and systematize the
work of these schools, but the results are not satisfactory. The schools usually open with large number of
pupils, but soon the attendance begins to decrease, and
continues till in some cases the committee deem it
best to close the schools before the end of the term.
There is no law obliging children to attend the evening
schools, and many of them spend the evenings in roaming about the streets, while their parents suppose that
thev are at school, and too often the parents neither
know nor care whether their children are at school or

  Report of School Committee.
not. There should be some plan devised whereby, when |
scholars are enrolled in these schools, their parents or :
guardians should be responsible for their regular attendance. |
During the past year some changes have been made
in the corps of teachers. Mr. C. S. Hemingway, who
for the past eleven years has been Principal of the High
School, has retired, and has been sucded by Mr. W.
K. Judd, formerly assistant principal of the Holyoke
High School, and for the past three years assistant in
the Hartford High School. Under his administration
the school work has been thoroughly systematized, and
the school bids fair to attain and maintain the high
standing it has had in the past. At the Chestnut Street
building, Mr. David Stratton, after nine years of continuous and faithful service, has retired, and has been
sucded by Mr. M. M. Moriarty. The schools in the
building have been regularly graded and placed upon
the same basis as the other Grammar Schools, in the
city. It has been the desire and aim of the Committee
to elevate and improve the standard of instruction in
the schools, so that in this respect the City of Holyoke
may be the equal of any city in the Commonwealth.
GEO. H. SMITH,
WM. GROVER,
E. P. CLARK.
For the Committee.

Report of Committee on Evening Schools.
ge

Your Committee on Evening Schools hereby present
the following report: The Evening Schools of commenced Oct. and closed Dee.  .

In the Chestnut street. school three rooms were occupied by the English-speaking pupils, with an enrollment
of  divided as follows: males  females  average
attendance, males  females  Two rooms were
occupied by the French department, with an enrollment
of  males  females  average attendance,  
males, females. The Dwight street Hall school had
an enrollment of pupils, males  females  ;
average attendance males, females.

The school in the Precious Blood building had an
enrollment of  consisting of males, females.
Average attendance males, females.

The German School in the Park street building, had
an enrollment of pupils divided as follows: males,
  females. Average attendance, males, females.

The school in the Germania Hall had an enrollment of
 divided as follows: males, females.

Aggregate attendance  divided as follows: 
males, females. Average attendance  males  ,
females  .

The great problem for solution in conducting the evening schools seems to be in enforcing attendance. It
seems to us that the first necessary step in this matter
is for the parent or guardian to make formal applica!
  Report of School Committee.

f
tion for the enrollment of the pupil. This question of .
irregular attendance should receive the attention of the
whole Committee, and some plan be devised to secure a
larger attendanceif possible. Wethink thatthe parents
are greatly at fault in this matter for if they would take
a little interest in it, visit the schools occasionally, and
ascertain if their children were in attendance, it would
no doubt, in great degree prevent non attendance.
This would in measure have the desired effect, for the
parents undoubtedly think their children are in attendance at school, when in fact they are running the streets,
and if the matter was brought to their notice it would
have the effect in great many cases of materially
increasing the attendance. Parents are generally supposed to be eager to give their children an education
and when the poorer classes cannot give their children
the advantuges of an education, they should be heartily
in favor of the evening schools and aid the committee
by every means in their power to prevent the irregular
attendance. Itseems that it would be very beneficial if
a set of rules were adopted by this committee, instructing the principals of the evening schools, that upon the
failure of an enrolled pupil to attend school for two
nights in succession, the parents should be notified
of the same, andif the principal should not hear from
the parents for four nights, the Truant Officer should be
sent to the residence of the pupil and ascertain the cause
of the pupil’s non attendance, and if some satisfactory
cause is not shown, the pupil’s name, with the consent of
the Superintendent, shall be dropped from the roll.

It is foolish expenditure of the city’s money to support evening schools, if fair attendance cannot be had,
and after the committee devised ways and means to prevent in some way this chronic irregular attendance and
a fair attendance cannot be secured, it would be far better to discontinue the evening schools altogether.

Report of School Committee.  

The evening schools in this city are really advantageous to the children of the working people and when
the parents of said children will aid the committee in
trying to prevent non attendance and to remedy any
other evil connected therewith, we shall have better
schools, large attendance and the result will no doubt
be truly astonishing. The Germania Hall has been
hired at rental of  per school season, and we
think this is an unnecessary item of expense and therefore we recommend that the evening schools be hereafter held in the regular school rooms. The principal
could warn the scholars not to mar or destroy the furniture and no doubt the warning would be heeded and no
more damage done than by the day scholars.

In several departments of the schools the grading of
the pupils, received the requisite attention from the
rrincipals, with satisfactory results in several cases and
if the same improvement is made in the future, this
question will be finally disposed of to the satisfaction
of the Committee.

The legislature of  (Section  Chapter  ,)
passed law that every city or town, having ten
thousand inhabitants, should keep and maintain evening schools. It seems that under this law, although we
do not believe it can be enforced where attendance is not
compulsory, that we are compelled to maintain said
schools, but are wholly without remedy to enforce attendance. And we recommend that our representatives be
notified of this matter and requested to present an
amendment to Section of Chapter of the Public
Statutes, at the incoming session of the legislature,
inserting after the words ‘‘public day school,’’ wherever
they may appear the words ‘‘and evening school.”’

An act was passed by the legislature in  providing that the ‘‘School Committee should purchase at the
expense of the city or town, text booKsand other school

  Report of School Committee.
supplies used in the public schools, and said text books
and supplies shall be loaned to the pupils of the said
public schools, etc.”’ Now it appears to us that, when
the legislature passed the act above referred to, in addition to keeping and maintainine evening schools, it
intended that said evening schools should be considered
abranch of the public schools and therefore entitled
to free text books. If there is any question about the
construction placed upon this law, our representatives
should be asked to offer an amendment at the incoming
session of the legislature, to Section of Chapter of
the Acts of  that the public schools should include
the evening schools,

JAMES TIERNEY,

Wh. GROVER,

BE. P. CLARK,

Com. on Hoening Schools.

Report of Committee on Drawing
and Writing.
ee
To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke —

Your committee on Drawing and Writing would
respectfully report that the work in these branches has
progressed commendably during the year.

A recommendation was made by us in our report last
year, that second teacher be secured and the branches
of drawing and writing be each placed under special
teacher. In lieu of this, however, and as convenient
as well as economical expedient, it was arranged at the
opening of the fall term that, owing to the great number
of schools, our efficient instructor, Miss A. M. Spalter,
visit each school but once in two weeks, thus enabling
her to devote sufficient time in each room to make it of
value her visits to alternate instruction in drawing and
in writing—thus making her special lesson in drawing
or in writing occur but once in four weeks. This long
interval was compensated for, in great measure, by
holding the regular teachers to greater attention to these
branches, and giving the teachers also special instruction
inthem. This arrangement can hardly be maintained
for longer than the present school year, with good
results. It will then be necessary, we think, to avail
ourselves of two instructors for these branches, as was
recommended last year.

Advanced drawing at the High School cannot be pur  Report of School Committee.

sued at all, owing to lack of suitable room, and it is
with great difficulty and inconvenience that drawing is
continued there even in the first year’s course.

Our evening drawing school was this year opened at
the Appleton street school hall in October. temporary partition was constructed, giving nice school
room in the south halfof the hall; an electric light was
employed as last year, at slight advance on its cost
then, because of expense of introduction. The school
was under the able supervision of Mr. T. W. Mann, as
during previous terms, and the work of those attending
has been faithful and successful. The need of this
school in manufacturing city such as ours, warrants
the Board in giving toit every advantage possible; for
its maintenance is of statutory obligation. The enrollment of this school this year is only about forty, but
the attendance has been equal to, or better than, last
year. Some means might possibly be employed to
increase the attendance and thus render much more protitable the outlay, and such consideration merits the
attention of the Board.

Respectfully submitted,
D. F. DONOGHUE,
GEO. C. EWING,
CHALMERS CHAPIN,
Committee on Drawing and Writing.

Report of Truant Officers.
: T. W. DOYLE.

To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke,

GENTLEMEN: In obedience to an ordinance passed
by our city government, herewith present to your
honorable body my eighth annual report as truant
officer, for the school year ending June  th,  The
annual census of the school children between five and
fifteen years of age was taken during the months of
May and June. The number of children as reported to
me by the parents or guardians, residing here May Ist,
 was five thousand eight hundred and thirty-six
( ), gain of over eighty-one per cent over  .
The following table shows the number residing in each
district for the years  ’ :

CENSUS BY DISTRICTS.

DISTRICTS,   Total
  ..... st  ... -:: or |)  ...    ... |  ....   .....  . we |   ....   
Gain over | ao]* 

* Decrease. Bn

|

  Report of School Committee.
| Gain
PYRSY) OTSS  OISN  ISS) TARR over
. IKE
No. children attending the public schools,  ITE Ue Pa So  )
No, children attending: St. Jerome’s school.  RG
No, children attending Precious Blood sehmool as  TE  
No. children attending Mt. St. Vineent school  S) OSB  *R
No.wchildren attending private sehoodls.. {.  
No. children at work in mills. shops. ete...  Gg GSy; SSP) Wl  
No. children neither ar work neoratsehook  ., TY MS ys SY YO
No. children minding: lrouse or doing housework, oss FR 
No. children that are deat and dumb...    
No, children that are dumb, ...  
No. children that are otherwise afflicted,  *]
Total  BOTT so  
As is seen in the foregoing table, the increase in the
public schools has not been as great as in former years.
The Precious Blood school has increased about thirty six per cent during the year. Yet the numbers that are
employed in the mills, shops, etc., have decreased about
forty-eight per cent since  The number of children
employed on the first of May,  as reported by the
parents, was four hundred and seven ), but during
the whole year there were employed eight hundred and
eleven, three hundred less than the previous year.
Frequently parties residing out of the city send to us
for certificates of age for their children, as they rely a
great deal on the accuracy of our books; the past year
twenty-five of those certificates have been sent to such
parties.

Report of School Committee.  
This table shows the number of children between five
and fifteen years old attending each school, the number
not at school, the number minding house or doing housework, and the number employed in the manufacturing
and mercantile establishments, May Ist, ,
 and  :
aae ie a
  
! ,
JJ
High School .......  ccsece cocsc sovevecce   
Appleton Street School.............c .) Od+  
Park Street School........... cesses s |  
Sargeant Street School... ...... sscsc .)  
Dwight Street School.......cc cceses eves  
Lyman Street School.......cc ..ccec  cev )  
Chestnut Street School............ nn  
South Chestnut Street School.............  
Ewingville School... ...... sscecoces coos s,  
Nonotuck Street School............. .eseses  
Elmwo School... secc s,  
Ingleside SChOO)......  ..c ees sescec  s 
West Street School.ss sess , !) wo]  
Brush Hill School......... ......ce. cec    
West Holyoke School................ wenes  
St. Jerome’s SchOOl..... see crv) LOG  |
Precious Blood School.............  cessesees 
Private Schools.........  scsese coscs ves SB 
Mt. St. Vincent School ......... .  vesee  
Number at WOrk....... ooes ececocvs | SS]  
Number not at work nor at school........  
No. minding houseand doing h’sew’k  
Number that are deaf and dumb.........  
Number that are CUMD.........  ce   
Number that are otherwise afflicted... )
TT ————— |-  ee
Total... . sces sees sovevesec | ABB 

  Report of School Committee.
TABLE OF NATIONALITIES.
Gain Gain
  Over Over
 
American Parentage,  
Trish ,  
English |  
French Canadian Parentage, |  
Scotch  
German ““  
Alsatian  |] 
Danish 
Canadian  
Itahan 
Belgian “e *]
French from France,  
Austrian Jew *)
New Brunswick 
Sweedish   ]
Spanish  O'  
Austrian   
Prussian “c  
Novia Scotia co,  
Welch  
Swiss  
Pole  
German Jew ()  
Bohemian O- |
Greek “é  |
African *} :
we     |
Total. Coe,  |
* Loss. |

Report of School Committee.  
Table of aggregates for the school year ending June
 th,  :
 Pag! si) 
ms jsoZioez |S s| 
OO AHF nzal? Pe), ee)
Set le Lj/ecs oei fo, oe
oOo |IBES mi |. en as ®
M Ry  o]aes z
SO gni/e  ot, &
AR CRO MOC  S) A
September,  ....  | qv  
October, ISS .....ceccesc ]  
November, IS ......... .ccec ce  .
December, ........    es |
JANUALY,I ........  eces co eses ees |
February, ........ seses  cosees ;
March, IS...  cesses |  
ADTil,  ... cye sesecsees ) BBG!  
JUNE, ... ....c e. coven cesses  eeses |
Total veercsnewenenneen|  H) ,
The following tables show the number of absentees
reported, parents or guardians notified, absent without
permission, returned to school from the streets, alleys,
etc., and the number of temporary arrests, from each
building for each month of the school year ending June
 th, :
ABSENTEES REPORTED.
i ee
ilgi giggle lelele
SCHOOLS. on io io ‘|  re  Ps} Ss he  
g/  
Chestnut,  
Institute,  
Lyman,....  
Dwight,  
Appletou, |  
Park,. ...  
Sargeant, ...  
Total,   oe  

  Report of School Committee.
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
| be isn  
|  
SCHOOLS.  
rp)  oS fe 
E|sie)]ele'i  s
  Sw  cr ar) 
Chestnut street, st a} 
Institute.   
Lyman street, 
Dwight street.  
Appleton street  
Park street.    
Sargeant street,  
J se  
Total... |e ats ast  BR  
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
“+ asp te ae at: ue
Elz 
SDHOOLS. ao . 
Pls le}|s gle} e|)ea) eR) s
| hic jula Sie |e] )/a ls og
Chestnut street,  
Institute, ..  
Lyman street,  
Dwight street...  
Appleton street,  
Park street,  
Sargeant street,  
Total...) oa a
RETURNED TO SCHOOL.
Z g$  
+ Te) Ne iQ Fd 
AE   
SCHOOLS.   we) Ss he fat Pa »
  oy) CJ oO
 'o|zuz|/Aa|S la )/ sei ais]  eé
 Chestnut street,  
Institute,  
Lyman street,
Dwight street,
Appleton street,  
Park street,  
Sargeant street,  
Total, ..  #+|  

Report of School Committee.  
TEMPORARY ARRESTS.
ve  li re} Zoe me. ee) :|  
SCHOOLS. az bzoe) ds dg Ee ES |e &
Fe On SH SE SE EE S
Chestnut street,  
Institute,  
Lymaa street, |
Dwight street, |
Appleton street,
Park street, .
Sargeant street, |
Total...   
This table shows the number of children and age of
each child in each district neither at work nor at school,
between five and fifteen years of age, May  st, and
  :
| ae
e.l/e.je.;,e.|/eg]ean] e&® |] st g- .
D-  [o Va Vr fo) 
sons, Be be Be beSE BE FE EE  E
re re)  re ve $a  a
Belo Be Bx ms BS lan aR an a
District No.    
“   
“    
“  ]; |
ee   ey
te o|  o|   
“  
“  {/ {o/] of of oj; of 
“  o{ of}; o|  
“ o|  o} oO Oo  
Total for |} | |  
Total for |  
Gain over  

  Report of School Committee.

This table gives the number in each district at work in
the mills, shops and stores; also the number minding
house and doing house work, May  st, and  :
Saar ae  To on nn

Districts fe Total.
fo |

—-————-|-- }

In mills. shops and stores,  .)   Of 

Minding house, ete., DE oO}  Of; 

a es re

Total for o| o|  

Total for  we. TO eo Ww  S(O  Of; Of]  

|

Less in ew ele  

. kL

This table shows the number of times that different
pupils have been truant, and the number of different
times each of the pupils has been truant, from their
respective schools during the year :

From Chestnut Street School, have been truant times  
]  eé 't  ce  

 cé sé  

Truants, Truancies,  

From Institute School, have been truant times tlme  

Truants, Truancies,  

From Park Street School, have been truant time  
From Sargeant Street School, “e From Dwight Street, has been truant times   ltime  

Truants, Truancies,  

Report of School Committee.  
From Lyman Street School, has been truant  time  
From Appleton Street School, has been truant times,  (T  cé  
Truants, Truancies,  
Total Truants, Total Truancies,  
Statistics of minors employed in the several manufacturing, mechanical and mercantile establishments in the
city, between ten and sixteen years of age. The following table gives the age and sex of each minor employed
in each of these establishments for the year ending Dec.
 st,  and the year ending Dec.  st,  :
DD
emaeRieM cm cic’
Dd Dd 'D  
Set Dy ic iv szvias .
SEZE ZRE  
RS en SBA AatAS| S| E
Lyman Mills...  cse   vev  o@  Go] 
Springfield Blanket Co.,..........  -.     
Farr Alpaca Co.,...........     ..  
Merrick Thread Co.,.........   s  Be  
Hadley Thread Co...  .    : |}  i)  
William Skinner Son,....  ...   es 
Holyoke Warp Co.,....      eens  
Chemical Paper Co..... occ.  (rr  
Connor Brothers...    tee   &); 
Holyoke Envelope Co.,)  ... ......  -- 
Chadwick Chadwick... .............+ ), WW 
National Blank Book Co.,.. ............  &|  
Germania Mills., .......  ...    ); 
Newton Paper ..........  ...      ae  
Seymour Cutlery Co.,..........    
Valley Paper Co...  Loe   wees  
Nonotuck Paper Co.,.....  ... .   eens  
Winona Paper Co...       
Syms Dudley Paper Co., .....  
Albion Paper ........  ... .cce  e cues  
Crocker Paper Co.,..........   eens 
Holyoke Paper Co.,...........  ce teens  
Massasoit Paper Co.,...  ...  ee  
Riverside Paper Co.,...........   
B. F. Nichols.,......      eens ees  
Holyoke Paper Box Co.,. oo...    
Parsons Paper Co..........e  os ..  
Whiting Paper Con.oef |B 
Mass. Screw Co .,... ....c       
Five Cent Store,.........  ...    
ss se
Total for  ,.  ... ...       AT  BRT OR
Total for  .............. | |  
Increase in over  ,.............|   

  Report of School Committee.

The number of minors employed during the year, that
have had certificates certifying that they have attended
school the required number of weeks, is three hundred
and fifty-one ). Of this number, eighty-six will be
discharged on or before May Ist,  The number of
certificates issued from the Superintendent’s office from
Dec. Ist,  to Dec.  st,  was eight hundred and
eighty-four. Of this number found registered on the
blanks furnished the overseers, eight hundred and
eleven ). The school work, as is seen in the table of
aggregates, is somewhat less than is shown in Mr. Herbert’s report. This can easily be explained, as all his
time and attention was devoted to the school work,
while mine was more varied. For instance, during a
part of November and December,  visited fortynine manufacturing, mechanical or mercantile establishments, that being the time when the annual mill census
is taken. In January,  another visit was made to
thirty-seven of these places, where minors’ were
employed, and in the latter part ef April another visit
was also made to the same number of places. You
might ask the question why so many visits are made to
these mills, shops, etc. ‘‘ The statutes require that the
truant officers shall, at least once in every school term,
or oftener as the school committee requires, visit these
establishments in the city or town where they reside.’’
Hence the reason of so many visits, and the small
amount of school work done by me. The law relating
to the employment of minors between fourteen and sixteen years of age, must say, is not as thoroughly
observed as it should be; not that the overseers violate
the law intentionally, but through thoughtlessness.
During my last tour of inspection through the mills I
found employed ninety-seven minors between fourteen
and sixteen years old, that had no certificate of age or
anything else to show why they could work, which is

Report of School Committee.  
altogether too many, but in the near future trust that
one cannot be found. have sent to the chief of
the District Police for extracts of the laws relating to
the employment of minors under sixteen years of age,
and intend to place copy in the hands of each overseer, so that there will be no excuse in future for violating the law. very marked feature in the present law
is Shown in the fact that during my last tour of inspection, out of eight hundred and eleven minors under sixteen years old, found but that could not read nor
write. consider that we ought to congratulate ourselves in showing to the public that our work has not
been in vain.

In conclusion must return my sincere thanks to the
Committee, Superintendent and teachers, also to the
agents and overseers in general, for their kind assistance
rendered to me in the discharge of my duties.

Respectfully Submitted,
T. W. DOYLE,
Truant Officer.

JOHN J. HERBERT.
To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke:
GENTLEMEN :—I have the honor of presenting to your
honorable body my annual report for the school year
 .
The following table shows the aggregate work for the
school year ending June  th,  .
fs  s
 y+  Ss 
ei ), |
&  $e DES ‘Arh  ge: Zf  -£  
  LI EEE ESE
September,  ............  
October, SO      .
November, ............ 
December, ‘o ........ -.  
January,  ............  
February, ‘“ ....... ..-- 
March, ei s  
April, SO   e-  
May, OO eceaees 
June, eae  s  
Totals... ........... -.  ||  
ABSENTEES REPORTED TO OFFICER. :
, FO Se es nn rv
SCHOOLS. PA be  g
alo ;/  A/S |m}]e  
Chestnut street  
Institute | |  
Park street |;  
Sargeant street  
Dwight street |  
Lyman street  
Appleton street  
Precious Blood  
So. Chestnut St.  
Totals.   ova lazva

Report of School Committee.  
ABSENTEES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
glel gielgigidlels
z ae:  
elosl so orl scl sel eid ele; 
a|  ceils win bl Oo: CS 
#l\Ol {A Sle £/'  
Chestnut StreetSchool,    
Institute School,  ...  
Lyman Street School, );  
Dwight Street School,   
Appleton Street School.   
Park Street School,  ...  .)   
Sargeant Street School, oo...  
Precious Blood School,.  ...  
South Chestnut Street School...  ); 
-- OO Oo OOoOo Oe  SOOO DI eens   oe
Totals... LO   
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
:  rn es  Ne) Nel
Ela gale le i:
SCHOOLS. : io —
- on co
Qu rs}  be &
 S
gE |c y/a S/f el] a) ae s)] 
Chestnut Street,  
Institute, ve) 
Park Street. |  
Sargeant Street,  OB  
Dwight Street, We  RO  
Lyman Street,  
Appleton Street,  BI  
Precious Blood, 
South Chestnut St. es ee
Total... oes  azo! see [ie aa  
PUPILS RETURNED FROM THE STREETS.
. hs as Nel Ney Ne  
)f/i |e el  )a  
SCHOOLS. as  ba wo  es} ei],  Ble, o/z ;) [fl ae)  ),e )/ 
Chestnut Street,
Institute, .
Lyman Street,  
Dwight Street,  
Appleton Street,  
Park Street, .. 
Sargeant Street,  
Precious Blood, .
Total,   

  Report of School Committee.
NUMBER OF ARRESTS.
SCHOOLS. or os  ". aS bs bi $
FULZIE g/e/f/  
Chestnut Street,  
Institute,  
Lyman Street, .
Dwight Street,  
Appleton Street,
Park Street,  
Sargeant Street,  
Precious Blood,  
So. Chestnut St., |
Tota, ..  a
NUMBER OF PROSECUTIONS.—TWO YEARS.
Be -|ot.}.). |
Sols lS] Sal dad sid] eas Eas bad  d
 ) 
Chestnut Street School, .... |a{ |.  
Institute School, ......  
Total... .. eel Io  
This table shows the number of times that different ,
pupils have been truant and the number of different
times that each of the pupils has been truant, from their
respective schools during the year.
From Chestnut Street School have been truant time times (T  ceé cé cé  ce  
] ce oe  vi
Truants, Truancies,  
From Institute School have been truant time times ce ce  (T  (T  'T  ce  
Truants, Truancies,  

Report of School Committee.  
From Park Street School have been truant time cé ce  
Truants, Truancies,  
From Sargeant Street School have been truant time times  
Truants, Truancies,  
From Dwight Street School  have been truant time  
l times  
] 
Truants, Truancies,  .
From Lyman Street School, have been truant time  times ce ce ce  
Truants, Truancies,  
From Appleton Street School have been truant time  times  
Truants, Truancies,  
From Precious Blood School have been truant time  times |
]  ce ce  
l 
Truants, Truancies,  
From So. Chestnut St. School have been truant time ““  times  
Truants, Truancies  Potal of Truants,  Total of Truancies,  

  Report of School Committee.

The following tables show the number of pupils quarantined, on account of contagious diseases, from the
several school buildings, and time lost from each school
in consequence of each disease :

CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.
Scarlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
  ce ce ce cs 
] “ec  ce  () Tt ce ce
 ce
 ce  of ce
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
Diphtheria, pupils lost days each. days.
 ce ‘t 
] cé 
 ce c
  ce 
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
Whooping Cough, pupils lost days each, days.
} Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
Measles, pupils lost days each, days.
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
INSTITUTE SCHOOT.
Searlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
  ce ot ce of ;
] ec ce 
] ce “es  ce .

Report of School Committee. pupils lost days each, days.
] ce cc Gs
  ce ce ce
 ce 
] ce  
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost.  
Diphtheria,  pupils Jost days each, days.
  (T 
Pupils, Cases, Davs Lost,  
From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.
Scarlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
] (Z  »() 
y, “ce  () ce  »() é
l ce “ce  Ce  ()  
l OQ rT ‘
Pupils, Cases,  Days Lost,  
Diphtheria, pupils lost days each, days.
  ce ce  
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
PARK STREET SCHOOL.
Scarlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
 ce  (T
l  (T ce CT ce AQ ce

  Report of School Committee.
  pupil lost days each days.
  fz)    ce 
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
Diphtheria, pupils lost days each, days.
  ce  ce  €
  ce ce ce  é
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
Measles, pupils lost days each, days.
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
LYMAN STREET SCHOOL.
Scarlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
  Ts ce ce  
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
, From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
DWIGHT STREET SCHOOL. :
Scarlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
  (T  ce ce   
]  ce (T cc
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  

Report of School Committee.  
Diphtheria, pupils, lost days each, iT’ ce ce (T co ———
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
Whooping Cough, pupils lost days each, days.
ping Sh,  pup y
  ée ce e
Pupils, Cases. Days Lost,  
From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
SARGEANT STREET SCHOOL.
Scarlet Fever, pupil lost days, days,
  rT pupils each, ‘*
  ce   ce (T§  
]  Tt ec Ts
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
Diphtheria, pupils lost days each, days.
  cé ce ce pupil.  “
— be
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
PRECIOUS BLOOD SCHOOL.
Scarlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
 c
  pupil, sé (T  ce
  pupils  “
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost  

  Report of School Committee.
Diphtheria, pupils lost days each, days.
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
From all diseases combined, Pupils  Cases  Days Lost,  .
NONOTUCK SCHOOL.
Scarlet Fever, pupils lost days each, days.
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
SOUTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.
Diphtheria, pupils lost days each, days.
Pupils, Cases, Days Lost,  
SUMMARY OF ALL THE DISEASES AT ALL THE SCHOOLS.
Scarlet Fever, cases, affecting pupils. Days lost,  .
Diphtheria,  “e co  
Whooping Cough,  re  
Measles, “é CS co“  
Totals,  
The closing tables on contagious diseases, although
being new item in the Truant Officers’ Report, represents, nevertheless, work which they have always performed in conjunction with their other duties, and one
which, on account of its growing importance, think
should no longer be omitted.
Respectfully Submitted,
JOHN J. HERBERT,
Truant Officer.

i
Report of Superintendent.
In compliance with your rules and regulations, sabmit my eighth annual report:
COMPARATIVE STATISTICS.

Population of the City in   

ee (Truant Officers
Census.  
Gain in five years,  

SCHOOL CENSUS.
Children between and years old in     rT;    rT;   iz}  
Increase within the last year,  
“  since 
Average increase per year since 
NATIONALITIES IN  .

Of Irish parentage,  
French  

  Report of School Committee.

Of American parentage,  
German  
English  
Scotch  
All others  
Total,  

. PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Enrolled in public schools in  
“   
“   
“   “é   
“ co.   
é   
ee   
Increase in enrollments since   
“  per annum  

: PAROCHIAL AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS.
Enrollment as per Truant Officer’s census,ee , Cé  (x  
Ce ce  
Increase since   
Average increase per annum, since 

Report of School Committee.  

PUBLIC, PAROCHIAL AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS.

Enrollment in   

*   

‘s   

é   

é   

‘é   

‘é   

‘$   

Increase in total enrollment since 

Average annual increase since 

In  the school population exded enrollment by  

In ar?) Cé  
In   .

In CC  .

In  the enrollment exded school population by  

In  the school population exded enrollment by  

In  the enrollment exded school population by  

In  the school population exded enrollment by  

(Enrollment in excess of population, is caused by two

enrollments of the same person, one in the Public

schools and one in the Private or Parochial schools.

The completeness with which the school age population

are placed and keptin school here, is believed to be quite

exceptional, due to an efficient truant service.)
COST.

Amt. expended by this Committee in  

“  ““ 

  

CC  

“   

  Report of School Committee.
Amt. expended by this Committee in  
“ .  
“  ce 
Increase since   
Increase per annum since 
COST PER PUPIL PER ANNUM.
In  .  
In  ,  
In  ,  
In  .  
In  ;  
In  ;  
In  ,  
In  ,  
HIGH SCHOOL.
Number of teachers from to 
“  to  to,  
‘  pupils in  
“ .  
“   .  
‘é  
é    
é ‘* Nov.  
GRAMMAR AND PRIMARY SCHOOLS.
Number of schools in Number of teachers,  
(z    

Report of School Committee.  

Number of Schools in Number of teachers,  

fe  

“ 

“  se  

EVENING SCHOOLS.

Enrollment, Av. attendance,  Cost, 

‘ d, ‘*  

“ ‘*  

“   

  -é  ‘*  

“  

“  cs  ‘*  

‘  (Not all closed yet),  

BUILDINGS AND ROOMS.

West Holyoke, room, Occupied, room
West Street,  &
Ingleside,  
Northampton St.,  QO §
Elmwood,  *
Ewingville, *
Nonotuck St., S$s
Chestnut St., Ss s
Dwight St., fF  
Lyman  t., $
Sargeant St., ‘é &
Park St., SS
South Chestnut St.,  h
Appleton t., SS
High School, fF SS
No. of houses, ‘‘  

  Report of School Committee. .
Unoccupied, Northampton Street, room
“ Ewingville,  “
  South Chestnut Street, *§
c Park Street, *
‘  Sargeant Street, 
Total,  
CERTIFICATES FOR LABOR.
To children between and years, Males,  
“ Females,  
Total,  
“  ‘- and years, Males, es Females,  
Total,  
éand years, Males,  
ce  Females,  
Total,  
Total Males,  
‘ Females,  
Total,  
Of these, issued to go out of town, Males,  
“ ‘s  Females,  
Total,  
PUBLIC SCHOOLS. SCHOOL YEAR SEPT.  ,
  TO JUNE .
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE. .
Average membership, first term,  
Per cent. of attendance,  
Avererage membership, second term,  
Per cent. of attendance,  
Average membership, third term,  
Per cent of attendance,  

Report of School Committee.  
ENROLLMENT.
Total enrollment for the year,  
MEMBERSHIP. |
Average membership for year,  
Per cent. attendance for year, 
TEACHER'S SALARIES.
Highest Salary of male teachers, 
“ ‘of female  
Lowest salary of male teachers,  
“  ‘cS female “SS.  
Average salary of male teachers,  
“ cS female‘  
cc all  
COST OF INSTRUCTION.
Average cost per pupil, based on enrollment, fe  ** membership,  
EXPENDITURES.
Between Dec. and Dec.  
“  
Difference,  
Kstimate, Feb. for the year’s expenditures, 
Excess of expenditures over estimates,  
The expenditures of exded those of  ,
chiefly in teachers’ and janitors’ salaries, due to opening
of new schools. Before commenting further upon the
management of the funds, attention may well be
directed to a

  Report of School Committee.
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT.
Estimates, Expenditures, Expenditures,
 :
Day Teachers’ Salaries, 
Superintendent’s  . 
Janitors’  . 
Evening Schools,  . 
Truant Officers,  . 
Furniture,  . 
Truant School,  
Tuition,  
Contingent,  . 
Maps and Books,  . 
School Room Supplies, |
Text Book Clerk,  
Totals,  . 
Had we been able to keep within the estimates for
text books, our expenditures would easily have been
kept within the appropriations. By the conditions of
the law, scarcely half of the books were supplied to the
schools during the fall term, last year, the pupils owning them having been compelled to use them, but the
old books rapidly wore out or otherwise disappeared,
compelling us toexpend more during the three terms |
just past, than our estimate contemplated. Expenditures
in other departments have been Kept below the
estimates, on account of the large demand for text
books, but the supply is now so complete that the
demand for the coming year will include only the
limited number of books for new pupils, the expense of
repairs and few supplementary readers. But the care,
repair and renewal of our eight or ten thousand dollar's
worth of books will, nevertheless, be no inconsiderable
item. Add to the above some seven hundred dollars

Report of School Committee.  
annually expended, under the law, for school room supplies, and all the clerical and other labor and correspondence connected with the expenditure of  year,
all through the Superintendent’s office, and they constitute serious question, as to the wisdom of leaving
this growing burden as drag upon the superintendency.
During part of the time since the introduction of
free text books, we have had the services of clerk, to
receive, stamp and supply them, upon teachers’ requisitions, and account for all, but no provision for permanent clerk has been made, and the present appropriation for this service, expires this month, (December. )

FURNITURE.

Your estimates for next year will doubtless contain
provision for furnishing the house to be built in South
Holyoke, for one room in the South Chestnut street
building, the two rooms in the Chestnut street building,
now containing old furniture, and the two suburban
houses in West street, and West Holyoke. The furniture in the two last named buildings is the worst in the
city.

TEACHERS’ PAY ROLL.

The expenditures fell below the estimates, last year,
because you had not rooms for the new schools estimated for, and the amount needed for the coming year will
depend upon the building or the date of completion of
the prospective house in South Holyoke.

TRUANT SCHOOL.

The expenditures ($ need not be exded during
the coming year. Only persons otherwise incorrigible,
should be sent out of town. The lack of suitable
place of temporary confinement here may, however,
increase the number of prosecutions and the expense. ,

  Report of School Committee.
EVENING SCHOOLS.

The cost for the coming year should not exd that
of the last, unless necessitated by some change of policy,
§ suggested elsewhere in this report.

CONTINGENT EXPENSES.

Doubtless sum equal to the amount expended last
year will suffice for the next year. This, however, will
depend upon such agreement as your committee on
school houses and repairs may make, as to minor and
necessary repairs, with the committee on city property.
I have believed this committee should be relieved of any
repair, if not the care, of the buildings, but experience
has considerably modified my views. Although appropriations should be made and expenditures limited by

| the central authority, having knowledge of all
demands and making equitable apportionment of funds,
it is equally true that the health of three thousand children, and the habitable and safe condition of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars worth of school houses,
should never lack the prompt and efficient attention
which can arise from interested care and contact only.
Authority which resides two or three removes from its
field of responsibility is apt to be slow of apprehension
and slower still of fulfillment of duty. think there
should be no division of responsibility as to the repair
of the buildings, and believe an agreement to that effect
may readily be made with the city’s committees, before
our estimates shall have been made.

Report of School Committee.  
CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY.
SARGEANT STREET.

The grounds have been graded, seeded and enclosed
with temporary fence for protection. Some improvements in its sanitary apparatus are now progressing.
The house exhibits the results of great shrinkage of
material. Rents in the lower floors freely admit to the
school rooms the basement odors or the cold air admitted to drive out the former, and like cause (shrinkage)
has nearly destroyed, in some rooms, the little plastering that has escaped the flooding of imperfect radiator
valves. The floors of the side porches should be made
water tight, and the eaves pipe, out of order for two
years, should be repaired, as the basement has been
flooded from both causes. The transoms over the school
room doors should have safe hangings, as they cannot
now be moved, one having been removed to save liability
to serious accident. The janitor and his assistant have
set out shade trees, seeded the ground and built the temporary fence, the city property committee furnishing the
material. Brick walks have been laid past the front
and up to the front entrance.

PARK STREET.

By the enterprise of the principal and the janitor the
grounds have been partially graded, trees, shrubs and
vines planted, and other means employed to improve
and keep the grounds. The fenceis ina dilapidated
condition and should have early attention to save it.
Cases for new books, and part of the improvement in
the sanitary apparatus requested, have been supplied.
The warped, shrunken and splintered floors, and the
demand for fire escape from the second floor, still invite

  Report of School Committee.
the attention of the authorities. think it is generally
believed by you that the escape should be built at the
rear and entered from the first landing of the stairway,
and into this tower could be transferred all of the sanitary apparatus of the two basements. Another escape
from the two front balconies has been suggested by
Principal Nichols, which would require little but iron
stairways. trust the day is not far distant when this
excellent Grammar school building, with its commodious
and numerous dressing rooms, may be provided with a
hall in the upper story for general exercises, unless the
lack shall be supplemented. by similar hall in some
other building in the vicinity. Next year the Park
Street house will be wholly occupied by Grammar
classes, unless the new building shall prove to be even
better adapted to your purposes. Should the authorities determine to locate the proposed building in front
of the Park Street house, it will probably be deemed
best to transfer the boiler to some smaller building and
to heat the two houses from one system located in the
new one. The radiators in the Park street house have
been in very bad condition, as the floors and ceilings
beneath them will testify, but orders have issued from
the proper authorities to repair them. The large folding
doors separating the two East rooms, upper floor, should
be properly set up or displaced by an ordinary partition,
as they are unsafe as partition and cannot be used as
doors. The steam pipes in the basement have been
covered with cement and radiators will now be necessary
to prevent the freezing of water.

DWIGIIT STREET.

The heating apparatus has been improved by changes
in the system of piping and by covering the basement
pipes with cement, since which time have heard no
complaint of insufficiency of heat, except in the baseReport of School Committee.  
ment where radiator will probably be necessary. The
house is new and in good repair. As every room in the
building is now occupied, the principal’s work must be
done in crowded school room or in the open hallway,
where severe colds have been contracted. Space was left
and plans made ior principal’s room, in the second
story, over the front entrance. Commodious storage- ,
room and possible school room of some kind, is lost by
a failure to provide suitable access to the third floor.
Exit from the boiler room for the removal of ashes, has
been ordered by the City Property Committee, through
the north basement wall.

LYMAN STREET.

Steam heat by new method has lately been provided.
A system of five pipes, suspended from and nearly parallel with the ceilings, runs along anda few inches away
from two sides of the room, to point diagonally opposite the place of starting, where it meets another similar
system spanning the other two sides. The two systems
have single supply pipe and single drip pipe in each
room. By this means is provided more radiating surface than have any other rooms inthe city. Sufficient
heat is provided, but the system has been tried only a
few weeks and judgment of its results must await longer
use and experience in management. Book cases are
being built in the two hallways. The gates at the front
and rear should be restored in some substantial manner.

CHESTNUT STREET.

The building is in fair condition. Because the rooms
are comparatively small for grammar classes, displacement of the large stoves by steam radiators has been
suggested and is worthy of consideration. All of the

  Report of School Committee. schools are now for the first time under one supervision
and some improvement in the manner of access to the
several rooms should be contemplated. Improvements
in the basement, made by your Committee on SchoolHouses and Repairs, have doubtless obviated the
necessity for stove there. The four rooms on the west
side should have storm windows, and few rents in the
floors stopped. The sidewalk has heen raised and the
walks leading up to the entrances are sometimes flooded.
Book cases are now being built in the towers.
ELM STREET.

One of the furnaces, for some time out of repair has
been replaced by one formerly in use at the Appleton
street. The two furnaces are insufficient, with the
present condition of the windows, in windy weather.
The blinds need some minor repairs. book case is
being placed in the principal’s office. Plastering is
needed in the north hallway and in some other places.

APPLETON STREET.

The basement steam pipes have been coated with
cement, probably necessitating the use of radiator.
Plastering is being repaired in room number seven A
partition, built in sections to facilitate removal, divides
the Appleton street hall, the southern half of which,
furnished with electric lights, has been occupied by the
evening drawing school during the past winter. The
pupils of room number two should be provided with
larger furniture. The building is finished in chestnut
wood, and its dark and dingy appearance seems to prove
that it had no suitable finish originally or no proper care
since. think it susceptible of great improvement at
moderate cost.

Report of School Committee.  
SOUTH CHESTNUT STREET.

This new house came into the Committee’s hands
about the first of last April. It has eight rooms in two
stories, the front rooms separated by broad hallways
and the rear rooms lying adjacent to each other in
either story, and fronting npon hallways at right angles
with the main halls, the lower’ transverse hall
leading to side entrances to the building, and the upper
one to the side stairways. The second story is also
reached by staircases near the front entrance, over
which is built commodious and commanding principal’s room, furnished with book-cases, desk and chairs.
The three entrances to the building are covered by
porches. The basements are large and well lighted,
having white walls and brick floors laid in and covered
with cement. The building is heated by two boilers with
steam supplied to the hallways by radiators, and to the
school rooms by system of five parallel pipes. extending along the outside walls of the rooms, few inches
from the floors. The system works well. think without delay the pupils located near the radiating apparatus
in any of the school houses, should in some way be protected from the direct radiation. Peculiarly constructed
screens have been tried in the Appleton street house,
which with proper improvements, will serve the purpose. The matter isof muchimportance and Icommend it to your early consideration. ‘The upper or attic story
of the new house, is reached by convenient stairway
and is found very useful for storage, and may yet be
used for other school purposes. No suitable sidewalks
approach nearer the building than one block on the east
and two blocks on the north, and, in wet weather, many
children reach school with wet feet and have to be sent
immediately home again. This louse and the Dwight

  Report of School Committee.

and Sargeant should be enclosed with such fences as
will protect them against vandalism. fear the gamin
is rare who can pass an unprotected school house, especilally in vacation time, without trying the rattling qualities of its windows, and the amount paid every year for
the repair of windows broken by the wantons, would
pay the interest on quite handsome fence fund. set
of furniture will be needed.

NONOTUCK STREET. ,

The grounds have been nicely graded, seeded and
fenced. sidewalk has been built on Hampden street,
to the corner opposite the school lot, and should be
extended up Nonotuck street, in front of the building.
All of the rooms are occupied and temporary partition has been placed across the Nonotuck hall, to afford
a recitation room for grade vill, which forms part of
the principal’s schoo]. Many pupils have suffered serious injury to the eyes, by the failure to place blinds
upon all of the windows, but the present city property
committee has given orders to mend the defect. The
blackboards here and in Dwight street are the worst in
the city. Storm windows and sheathing under the floor
have been ordered for the northwest corner room and an
additional book-case for the principal’s office.

EWINGVILLE.

The grounds should be re-graded and protected against
the floods that pour across it from the hill inthe rear.
The rear and front fences should be restored to prevent
the use of the grounds as thoroughfare. ‘There has
been difficulty with the draught of the chimney which
has not yet been wholly remedied. The presence of
sewer gas having been discovered in the lower room,

Report of School Committee.  
investigation proved that no trap had been ever been
put in the sink and one has lately been supplied. The
plastering in the lower room is in bad condition and the
wood work needs paint for its preservation.

INGLESIDE.

The building is in fair condition and only minor repairs
are necessary.

WEST STREET AND WEST HOLYOKE.

These houses should have each set of graded furniture as they have now the worst, if not the oldest, in the
city. :

ACCOMMODATIONS.

We have fifteen school houses: four of these have each
one room two, two rooms; one, four rooms; one five
rooms; one, six rooms; three, eight rooms; one, nine
rooms; two, ten rooms, aggregating seventy-six rooms.
We have occupied, until recently, seventy-three rooms,
the vacant ones being the old Northampton Street house,
abandoned upon opening the Nonotuck; the upper
room at Ewingville, abandoned at the same time, and
one room in the new South Chestnut Street house. —
Among the occupied rooms were two basement rooms at
Park and one at. Sargeant street. Moreover, one school
of forty pupils has occupied the upper hallway at Sargeant, two crowded schools at Park street have had each
two teachers, and enough pupils for two schools of the
lowest primary grade have been rejected. Anticipating
this crowded condition, you long ago asked the city

  Report of School Committee.

government fora temporary building containing four
rooms. The authorities, upon investigation, determined
to build permanent eight-room house but, failing to
agree, they finally abandoned the whole scheme and
left the committee to its own resources. Although you
had transferred one fifth grade from Park street to the
new South Chestnut street house, it was deemed unwise
to occupy with another the only remaining room in the
same building. Hence, the Neidenthal store, corner
East and Sargeant street, was fitted up, and the classes
of Misses Kennelly and O’ Gara, Sargeant street, removed
toit; and the Flynn store on Spring street, accommodates some thirty-five of Miss Scolley’s Park street
school. Although that number is little more than
half of her class, this room has proved ample for those
willing to go so far. Evidently many parents deem the
dangers and discomforts of distance of travel in crowded
streets to be greater than those of the basement. Couple
with the above the fact that the Dwight and Lyman
street houses are full, and from the former class has
been rejected for want of room, and you have some idea
of the lack of accommodations east of the second level
canal.

PROPOSED BUILDINGS.
SOUTH HOLYOKE.

In view of the foregoing facts, please consider the
use, the location and the size of the proposed
building. The Sargeant street house with one small
dressing room for each school of fifty pupils is suitably
furnished for primary classes. The Park street house,
with its two and three commodious dressing or apparatus
rooms for each class, so appropriately occupied by

Report of School Committee.  
grammar schools and had before the transfer of the class
to South Chestnut street, six schools of the above grade,
and now would have no other grades if your request for
more room for primary classes had been met. The
Lyman street house is occupied by primaries wholly.
The Dwight has three grammar grades (v, VI and VII.)
and five primaries, while pupils enough for one primary
class have been rejected for want of room.

( .) The pupils crowded out areall first primaries,
enough for six schools, and will be increased by another
upon the return of the grammar school from South
Chestnut to Park, making seven primary schools now
ready for the proposed house. At least three more primaries will ask admission before new building can be
erected. )

( If the new house is to be built for primary schools
it ought not to be placed further south than the Park
street house, because (a) the northern boundary of its
district is Spring street, (b) the southern part of this
district is already accommodated by the Sargeant street
and (c) the northern boundary may have to be extended
still further north to relieve the pressure at Dwight.

The above discommoded are from five to seven years
old. The argument isa fallacy, that because some of
their parents walked mile or two to schovl therefore,
their children can, and hence school house may as
well be located near the border of its territory if land be
cheaper there. Why, there is greater liability to accidents from dogs, horses, vehicles, crowds, panics, allurements, enticements and other incidentals of one rod of a
city’s thoroughfare, than in the mile of rustic road
over which the satcheled father lugged his books to the
village school.

( .) Should an eight-room house be built, it would be
filled upon the day of opening and the poor instruction,
scholarship and discipline and other annoyances of

  Report of School Committee.

crowded buildings, would soon again be upon us. Presuming that you will find, in the new city government,
an honest desire to provide fully and wisely for your
department. would suggest that you immediately ask
for twelve-room, two story building. Should such a
building be located near the Park street building, and
placed under its master, some of its rooms could be prepared for grammar schools, those of Dwight temporarily
transferred thither and room thus afforded, for the
rejected primaries of that region, for which this or some
other provision should be made.

CHESTNUT STREET.

The eight rooms are filled, and the Appleton street
building now has between eighty and ninety pupils
belonging to the Chestnut street district. You have
organized graded grammar school in this house, but
the fact that so large proportion of its pupils of high
grade, must be accommodated. elsewhere, is constant
source of discouragement and demoralization. know
you have long shared my opinion, that our accommodations are conspicuously inadequate to tne work of the
region. You have considerably improved the house and
its reputation, with new furniture, etc., but you could
not well enlarge its rooms, increase their number nor

provide the convenience of central hallways. Even with
its present inconveniences, it would fairly serve fora
primary building, but the region ought to have in its
midst, one of the best grammar school establishments in
the city, and would suggest the remodeling of the
buiding, or its sale, and the building of twelve-room
house farther westward.

Report of School Committee.  
HIGH SCHOOL.

You are familiar with the crowded condition of the
building, and will be at your wit’s ends to accommodate
the large incoming class next September. Unless the
old building is to be enlarged ora new one built you
will be compelled to raise the standard of scholarship
for both admission to and continuance in the school.
Trusting that so important public interest may not
much longer suffer neglect, offer the following suggestions relative to location, style and arrangement of rooms, and the purposes and management of the school.

The present site is fair one and with the Water .
Works’ pipe lot adjoining, would afford room for
enlargement of the present structure or the erection of
anew one. But if it is desirable to avoid street noises,
or to have any grounds about the building, change of
location is inevitable. As to centrality perhaps no available site would excel the old one, but this is not the first
consideration. retired spot, ample room, good elevation and drainage, absence of street and other noises,
are among the chief considerations. Sites possessing
all these requisites are doubtless available.

But the interior plan and arrangement of building
cannot be too carefully studied. The best training cannot be had ina High school unless in both study and
recitation students shall be under the closest surveillance
of teachers. In large study halls like ours, with a
teacher hearing lesson or even devoting his entire time
to the conduct of one hundred and fifty pupils, or one
half that number, sitting in their accustomed seats and
presumably engaged in study, not five per cent. of the
disorderly doings of the many irripressibles is ever discovered and not two per cent. ever atoned for. The worst
disturbers of the flock are cunning enough to elude the
most careful watch of the shepherd. Generally the most

  Report of School Committee.
clumsy and witless delinquents, and open boorish defiers
of authority suffer penalties which should be only
shared with the keenor, shyer originators of disorder of
whom the former are but unskilled imitators. If we
cannot train the morals and manners of our pupils our
system is failure and ought to be displaced. would
not retain any pupil who will not receive this training
for would not send forth crowd of boors, even furnished with all the book learning they could possiby
attain, and honored with your diploma, to pervert the
‘better purposes of learning by preying upon the amenities and decencies of civilized life. True education is
 the symetrical development of all the powers, and he is
not truly cultured for citizenship who lacks the better
sentiments, and has, in their place, contempt for
proper authority, and kindly, orderly behavior.

With these views, favor system of study rooms
accommodating not more than fifty students each, and
each to be under division officer who will govern the
division and at the same time hear such classes as may
be assigned by the principal. The disciplinary part of
this system, has approved itself in the successful management of our own and other grammar schools and
some of the best High schools in New England.

If itis deemed desirable to remove the partitions
between the two front and the two rear recitation rooms

on the lower floor, making but two rooms of the four,
I would then partition the study hall and thus gain two
or three more rooms, according to necessity. The present building may thus be made to accommodate present
numbers.

The above are only hints relative to the main design of
the building, the details of which should receive careful
consideration. suggest that some committee be
requested to investigate the whole matter and lay before
you such information and conclusions as they may find.

Report of School Committee.  
EVENING SCHOOLS.

As usual, few pupils have done faithful work and
received profit, but cannot resist the temptation to
reiterate former criticisms with additionalemphasis. As
our own is similar to the experience of so many other
cities, new remedies must be sought and those adapted
to locality. Experience proves that about eight hundred will answer youradvertisement of the opening night,
but the average attendance will soon recede to two hundred and fifty or two hundred and sixty. Besides, the
two hundred and sixty are not so many individuals in
regular attendance, but they are largely inconstant persons out of the eight hundred registered attending so
irregularly and irresolutely as to fail of any satisfactory
attainment. As more than thirteen hundred persons
asked admission to the evening schools, four or five
years ago, and the parents of more than fifteen hundred
now desire their children’s attendance, it is evident that
mere desire for learning is not sufficient to induce these
people to accept it even when offered free. In these
premises have these suggestions to make:

If it is the wish of the Committee to provide the free
evening school for those only who are willing to attend
it, then would require each applicant to deposit with
you small sum of money to be returned upon faithful
attendance and work or honorable discharge from the
school. Or, if you desire to extend the advantages to
all who may need them, suggest that parents of persons between fourteen and eighteen years of age he
required to make formal application for admission cards
and that said parents receive regular notice at short
intervals of their children’s attendance and behavior.
Either plan would secure regular and the latter large
attendance. There remain just four requisites for good
evening school.

  Report of School Committee.

 Good accommodations which, with reasonable,
responsible use by the pupils, we can afford in any part
of thecity. There can be no objection to evening classes
using the ordinary school rooms when such evening
classes are worth keeping.

 Only experienced teachers, not every person having
sufficient learning, can manage evening schools. From
the nature of things, they have more elements of disadvantage than any other schools. The conclusion of
this argument is foregone. Each building should he
presided over by some one of the best teachers you have
in the city and each room and many of the tables of any
large hall should have superior ones to give direction
and efficiency to the work of all.

 Text books. Either free text books should be furnished, or some means should be found to compel pupils
to furnish their own. Of course, pupils should own
their books and continue acquaintance with them after
school, but we have found that the great majority of
them will not furnish so much as pen or pencil, without compulsion. Unless the free text book law contains
ample provision for this requirement—-and think it
does—some compulsory expedient will have to be found
to supply the lack.

 Course of study. For economy of effort none of
your work demands intelligent system more than does
the work of the evening schools. Their pupils do not
come, asin graded schools from the next grade below,
but from and in every condition, and your problem is to
do them the greatest possible good in the shortest possible time. Soon after admission, each pupil’s mental
condition must be known and each person so placed as
to assure no loss of time to pupil or teacher. Just here
your very best teachers will want well pondered
scheme of work. For our schools the course should
include in an abridged form the studies of our grammar

Report of School Committee.  
schools. Arithmetic should be shortened and taught
by practice work chiefly, only so much under one topic
as will prepare the pupil for the next No memorizing
of rules should be permitted. Practical grammar should
be taught chiefly by sentence writing for drill, and sub
sequently, in the writing of letters and more extended
compositions. Of course some classes may require
technical grammar, but practical grammar is of more
importance to any pupil. Reading should be taught
tirst for proper pronunciation of common words, next,
for enlargement of the vocabulary, next for ready apprehension of the thought, and lastly for expression.
Geography should be made interesting by good maps,
exhibiting leading features, and instruction fixed in
memory by incidents of travel and discriptions of characteristics of places and countries. With the ordinary
method of classification, by arithmetic or reading, this
scheme cannot be carried out. The pupils are very
unequal in attainments, some in advance of others in
reading being far behind them in arithmetic. Itisa
great waste of energy to have all the work of certain
number of unequal pupils done under the direction of
one teacher. Pupils may be classified in the most convenient manner for study and discipline, but for recitation they should be sent into classes of equals. These
thoughts are the results of deliberation and genuine
interest in the subject, and have trespassed upon your
time and space to express them here because believe
these schools had better be abandoned for time than
continued under the old system.

  Report of School Committee.
THE CORPS OF TEACHERS.
CHANGES.

Mr. C.  S. Hemingway retired from the principalship
of the High School June after service there of
eleven years and almost two terms, and was sucded
by Mr. J. P. Cushing, until June  who graduated the
class of  At the opening of the current school
year, the principalship was assumed by Mr. W. E. Judd,
a graduate of Amherst college, for six years assistant
in our High school, then for two years principal of the
Park street Grammar school, and lastly for three years
assistant in the Hartford High school.

Mrs. I. W. Martin closed her connection with the High
school at the end of the school year, June  and was
sucded Sept.  by Miss B. H. Bell.

APPLETON STREET.

Misses Schaefer and Eaton, respectively retired from
eighth and first grade schools, were transferred April  ,
the latter to the first grade and the former to the principalship of the South Chestnut street building, whither,
also, to the fourth grade was transferred Mrs.  J. C.
Todd. Miss F. k. Kelt, sick during large part of the
fall term, has leave of absence.

PARK STREET.

Miss KE. L. Farnum was transferred, Jan. ,
from primary grade in Sargeant street to the mixed
grammar school at Park, which she retained until her
basement room was abandoned, when she was removed
toa small room on the first floor, in November,  .

Report of School Committee.  
Miss M. B. Berry’s school] in the Precious Blood basement was closed in April,  and Miss Berry transferred to Miss Washburn’s room and Miss E. A.
MeDonald, her assistant, to Sargeant. Miss J. E. Newell was transferred, May to South Chestnut
street, and was sucded by Miss. J. E. Scolly. Miss
B. O. Goldthwait was transferred with the fifth grade
from Park street to South Chestnut, in August,  .
Miss Rose P. Whitney, appointed at Sargeant street,
August was transferred to Miss Washburn’s |
room, in September,  .

SOUTH CHESTNUT STREET.

Misses E. O’ Neill and K. A. Mahoney were appointed
to third and fourth grades, and Miss M. L. O’Connor as
principal’s assistant in April,  Miss Goldthwait
has leave of absence during the last two terms of the
current year.

DWIGHT STREET.

Miss M. O’Connell, appointed principal’s assistant,
Mrs. E. M. Wellington and Miss EK. H. Perry transferred to fourth grade, and Miss KE. M. Swind to fifth.

LYMAN STREET.

Miss N. F. Reilley transferred to Nonotuck, and Miss
M. E. Curtis, appointed at Chestnut street, April  .
CHESTNUT STREET.

Mr. David Stratton withdrew from the school, June
  after service of nine consecutive years,
and was sucded by Mr. M. M. Moriarty, recently

  Report of School Committee.
graduated from the Holy Cross college, who assumed
the principalship of the entire building, Aug. .
Miss EK. J. Whitaker, yielding the principalship after
sixteen consecutive years’ service, retains her class.
Miss H. E. McCoy in service since May,  resigned
December,  .
SARGEANT STREET.

Miss K. T. Chapin, had leave of absence during the

month of September,  .

Report of School Committee.  
re
MISS EFFIE M. CODY.

My eight annual reports chronicle the deaths of but
two members of the corps of teachers, those of Mr. J.
J. Donoghue, in December,  and Miss Cody, in
May,  Miss Cody wus graduated from our High
school in June,  with excellent standing and scholarship, and in September,  received the appointment of principal’s assistant in the Sargeant street
building. When make my just record, that the deceased possessed rare personal gifts, but substantiate
the approving memory of her schoolmates, her teachers,
her social circle and her professional associates. Petite,
calm, comely, her few thoughtful words, whether in
question or instruction, found ready apprehension, and
the success of her brief career plainly foreshadowed a
future of exceptional usefulness and honor. As with all
natural teachers her power was chiefly in her manner,
and herein is the lesson of her life. Without that nameless grace and quality which she possessed, even double
her mental power might strive in vain for half her
success.

ee

  Report of School Committee.
SUCCESS OF INSTRUCTION,

In arithmetic and the practical use of language, good
progress has been made, in all of the schools. These
are indeed the practical things which even iteration of
examples will eventually prove to and fix in the mind,
and the method of their pursuit is more obvious and
tangible. Butin the less definite and more difficult
branch of reading, less progress has rewarded effort, and
its unaccomplished possibilities invite the earnest study
and energetic action of every teacher. The unsatisfactory
condition of this branch is not due wholly to lack of
skill or energy, but largely to peculiar local disadvantages which must in some way be overcome. The remedy will be found, in some schools, ina mere revision
of the time table, while in others is demanded closer
study of methods and more critical correction of errors,
but for the best results all of the schools should have
such supplementary readers as have already been recommended by your committee on text books.

VOCAL MUSIC.

My reports have hitherto avoided allusion to the subject of music, but there should be made brief report
of the new methods now grown into successful practice
in our schools. These methods, developed experimentally, have at length been reduced to such definite and
systematic form as to permit their publication for the
guidance of teachers in daily practice. The scheme is
built upon the requisites of .) Voice culture, in reading and speaking, as well as singing, and .) Note reading. Voice culture will include (a) proper position of the
body, (b) the correct method of breathing, (c) the free

Report of School Committee.  
use and full development of the lungs, and (d) the use
of the proper muscles to produce voice. Definite
instructions are prescribed for safe and successful practice in every branch of the subject. Proper development of the voice, asto quality or quantity, will be
secured through daily drill in the utterance of the English vowel sounds, in both conversational and singing
tones. Judicious discrimination is to be exercised in the
use of the vowels, the darker ones serving to check and
control the metalic tendencies of the voice inearly childhood, and the lighter vowels, for their characteristic
tonic effect, in more advanced grades.

As the talking voice verv far exds the singing voice
in common use and utility, and because by practice with
both upon the same vowel the charms of the latter voice
are added to the former, practice with both, in each
music lesson, and in preparation for each reading exercise, shonld be enjoined. The vowels chosen for practice are at first spoken phonically, as used in certain
selected words, but without the consonants; then they
are uttered with preceding consonants; and again with
the consonant sucding, and finally with both consonants. The same vowel with similar method is used in
singing tones. The breathing exercise should precede
the vowel drill in preparation for reading and singing.

Singing includes the mastery of all intervals and
signs of the staff, the correct relative pitch of each
note of any scale, and the proper rendering of sacred
and secular songs. Instruction begins with the musical
ladder, placing its first round and naming and singing
its tone, and then adding and using the others, each in
succession upwards. The names first used are the numbers from to  each introduced in prescribed manner,
then the letters of the musical alphabet, from A. to G.
are placed upon the same steps and used like the
numbers, each tone or interval being mastered before

  Report of School Committee.
introduction of the next. But we make it an essential
principle of the new method, to practice each new step
or series of steps, as soon as located, with the vowels
selected for voice culture. We use the number series
simply because it is always used to designate the intervals or several tone-steps of any key, and we use the
first seven letters of the alphabet because they are always
used to name the lines and spaces of the staff, and in
learning these the pupil has nothing to wnlearn, but we
use them as little as possible in practice. And we
abandon the ‘‘do-re-mi’’ method entirelly, and substitute
the vowel and word method for practice, all because (a)
the use of any fixed formula to learn and sing scales by,
makes one slave to that formula, and (b) constant use
of such formula will produce defective scale, the
tones made with the close vowels of the formula, tending to flat, and those made with its open vowels, tending
to sharp. Therefore we seek to secure the correct relative pitch as well as the desired quality of tone by the
use of chosen vowels, not several different vowels sung
to as many notes of an exercise, but one vowel sung to
all of the notes, and then another to all.

The second part of the method deals with the staff,
sight reading in each key, association or comparison of
keys, and familiarity with modifications or changes of
key by peculiar treatment. Both parts have the
breathing exercise, the vowel method and song singing,
for correct intonation, enunciation, phrasing, and sentimental expression.

But we can give here only an abbreviated out-line of
the method. In its several parts itis new, especially.
 Inits daily culture of the speaking as well as the
singing voice.  Inits avoidance of the ‘‘do re me”
or any other formula, in practicing intervals or seales.
 Its daily drill, with selected vowels, and ultimately
with words made from them with consonants.

Report of School Committee.  

The course is in successful use in this city and Springfield, but its best work cannot be done until the manuals
are finished and placed in the hands of the teachers.

PRIVATE SCHOOLS.

Within short period there has grown up in our
midst private school Known as the Holyoke Business
College. The branches pursued are chiefly those of our
grammar school course, with especial attention devoted
to facility and alertness with figures, the writing of business letters and all other commercial papers, knowledge of the theory and practice of book-keeping as far
as they can be imparted in any school, and penmanship.
The school is conducted by competent teachers and
receives pupils of all ages, but noapplication has yet
been made for its recognition by this Committee under
the act concerning the granting of labor certificates.

The members of this Board, and the members of other
Committees, who have facilited the work of our department, adding to our pleasure and the city’s profit, are
entitled to my sincere acknowledgements.

Respectfully submitted,
E. L. KIRTLAND,
Secretary and Supt. of Schools.

  Report of School Committee.
NAMES AND PRESENT OCCUPATIONS OF THE
HIGH SCHOOL CLASS OF  .
Arthur Clifford Aiston, book-keeper Lyman Mills. Newton Place.
Ruth Ella Cain, at home, Northampton street.
Carrie Louise Sumner, post graduatestudy. Pearl street.
Grace Edna Andrews, at home, Monson Primary School.
Simon P. Brooks, Williston Seminary, Easthampton. Bh street.
Mary Aloyse Donoghue, Westfield Normal School.
Walter John Clynch, book-keeper R. F. Kelton Co Dwight St.
Adella Christina Cleveland, at home, Taylor street.
Kity Belle Bond, teacher in Evening Schools. John street.
Hattie Maria Wheelock, at home, Pleasant street.
Rose Pearl Whitney, teacher in Park street school. Taylor street.
Alice Moss, teacher in Evening Sch: ols. West street.
Sara Wallace Brennan, teacher in Evening Schools. Northampton St.
Matthew S. Herbert, teacher in Evening Schools. High.
Clara Maria Thorpe, at home, Hampden street.
Grace C. Mitivier, at home, Maple street.
Odna C. Mitivier, at home, Maple street.

 Appleton Street Grammar School. |
; ——  -?GRADUATES, JUNE,  .
AGE. NAME, WHERE THEY ARE.
  Mary kK. Allyn, High School.
  Carrie M. Bishop, High Scbool.
  Millie J. Bolton, High School.
  Katie H. Bradley, High School.
  Lillie H. Corser, High School.
  Charlotte L. Ely, High School.
  Lilla C. Ely, High School.
  Mary C. Fay, High School.
  Appalonia L. Fuller, High School, |
 Carrie E. Griffis, At Home.
  Lucy I. Lamb, High School.
  Eva E. Norris, High School.
  Helen B. Rantlet, High School. .
  Sadie Shumway, High School.
[  Josie L. Snell, High School.
  Julia R. Sheehan, High School.
  Grace E. Webber, High School.
  Alice M. Wilder, At Home.
  Ida M. Young, High School.
  Mark E. Carpenter, High School.
  Willie H. Davis, High School.
  Clarence B. Fullerton, Deane Steam Pump Works.
  William H. Hawes, Treworgy Co’s Boston.
  Chas. D. Heywood, Kixeter Academy.
  Geo. G. King, High School.
  Charles I. Merrick, High School.
  Harlan F. Moore, High School.
  David F. Mullin, At Home.
- Harry A. Thayer, Holyoke Com College.
Whole number of pupils,  Average age of girls, vears,  
months. Average age of boys, years,  month. Average age of class,
  years, months. Oldest pupil, years, months. Youngest pupil,
  years. Average rank of girls,  Average rank of boys,  Average rank of class,  ,

  Report of School Committee.
THE LIBRARIES.

Teachers’ library was founded in  pupils’ in  .
Whole number of volumes in teachers’ library  cost
of the same Number of volumes added during the year  cost of the same Whole number of volumes in pupils’ lbrary  cost .

, Number of volumes added during the year  cost
$ .

The teachers’ library contains nearly every important
work on education published in the English language.
It is proposed to purchase al! books on teaching and general education as soon as they are published. About
twenty-five volumes of professional books will thus be
added each year. It is also contemplated tv procure as
many works of biography as our means will allow. The
object of the library is to afford the teachers an oppor- tunity of acquiring good methods and learning what the
most distinguished educators think upon the various
educational topics. The teachers have read one hundred volumes the past year. This is in the direction of
growth and improvement.

The three upper classes of the grammar school take
out books.’ Pupils’ weekly analysis, both oral and written, of what they have read, helps them in acquiring
power and accuracy in the use of language. By this
method they acquire valuable knowledge and cultivate a
taste for good books. Works of biography, history,
and travels are principally read, although standard
books of fiction are much sought after.

The following are the titles of books added to the
libraries during the year  :

Foster's Essay on the Evils of Popular Ignorance,
Addresses at the Inauguration of President Porter,
Spencer’s Course of English Reading, Brook’s American

Report of School Committee.  
State Universities, Sheely’s Anecdotes and Humors of
School Life, Everett's Critical Exposition of Fichte’s
Science of Knowledge, Addresses and Prodings of
the National Educational Association,  American
Institute of Instruction, two vols., Hilman’s
Application of the Principles of Psychology to the
Work of Teaching, Miss Baldwin’s Yankee SchoolTeacher in Virginia, Historical Sketch of the State |
Normal School at Albany, N. Y., anda History of its
Graduates for Forty Years, Manual of
Discipline and Instruction for Primary and Grammar
Schools, vols., American Patriotism, ,—
Sphes Compiled by  H. Peabody, Parton’s Achievements of Celebrated Men, Platt’s Library of Wonders
and Curiosities, Memoir of Zerah Colburn by himself,
Nash’s Crime and the Family, Catholics and Education,
Olin’s College Life: Its Theory and Practice, Johonnot’s
Country School-Houses, Common Mind  Troubles,
Thompson's Educational Essays, Cobb’s Evil Tendencies of Corporal Punishment, MacArthur’s Education
in its Relation to Manual Industry, Extracts Concerning
Education from Emile, Sr., by Eleanor Worthington,
Chaney’s Every-Day Life and Every-Day Morals, Anna
Johnson’s Education By Doing, Lossing’s Eminent
Americans, Education, vol.  Five Hundred Mistakes
Corrected, Derby’s Fifty Years Among Authors, Books,
and Publishers, Bristed’s Fifty Years in an English
University, Games and Songs of American Children,
Griffin and Maclure’s Graded Reviews, Smith’s Health,
Hamerton’s Higher Education and Common Language,
Mary Blake’s History for Teachers, Griffith’s History of
the Washington Monument, Hall’s Health by Good
Living, How to Learn and Earn by Mrs. Fremont, Mrs.
Pratt and Others, Adam’s Handbook of English
Authors, Mrs. Armstrong and Miss Ludlow’s Hampton
and Its Students, Allen’s History and Mystery of Com  Report of School Committee.

mon Things, Granville’s How To Make the Best of Life,
Galton’s Inquiries into Human Faculty and its Development, Wiggin’s Lessons on Manners for School and
Home Use, Mother’s in Council, Mrs. Sherwood’s Manners and Social Usages, Grimke’s Nature and Tendency
of Free Institutions, Hackwood’s Notes of Lessons on
Moral Subjects, New England Journal of Education,  
vol.,  White’s Oral Lessons in Number, Atkinson’s
On History and the Study of History, Gladstone’s
Object Teaching—A Lecture, Alexander’s Princeton College During the Eighteenth Century, Rev. Michael
Muller’s Public School Education, Public Education in
the City of New York, Practical Essays, Practical
Work in the School Room on the Human Body, Wilbe’s
Paradise of Childhood, Seuthwick’s Quizzism and Key,
Kay’s Social Condition and Education of the People in
England, Mary EK. Gellie’s Stephen the Schoolmaster.
Orcutt’s School Keeping: How To Do It, Blackie’s SelfCultuce, Granville’s Sleep and Sleeplessness, Frances M.
Peard’s The Asheldon School-room, Mrs. Dall’s The
College, the Market, and the Court, Sand’s Philosophy
of Teaching, Sypher’s Art of ‘Teaching School, Bernstein’s Five Senses of Man, That’s It; or Plain Teaching,
The Power and Authority of School Officers and Teachers, Real’s Story of The Stick in all Ages and Lands,
The District School as It Was, Burton’s Observing Faculties, Brace’s Dangerous Classes of New York, Lelia
E. Patridge’s Quincy Methods Illustrated, Smith’s Evolution of Dodd, Mowry’s Talks With my Boys, Mark
Hopkins’ Teachings and Counsels, Granville’s Secret of
a Good Memory, Granville’s Secret of Clear Head,
Craik’s State and Education, Froebel’s Education of |
Man. Jones’ Best Reading (Second Series,) King’s
Treasury of Facts, Thring’s Theory and Practice of
Teaching, Jenkin’s Life of John C. Calhoun, Mrs. Mary
A. Livermore’s What Shall We Do With Our DaughReport of School Committee.  
ters, The Century, vol. Atlantic Monthly, vol.
  Popular Science Monthly, vol. Harpers Magazine, vol. The Literary World,  
vols., Atlantic Monthly, vol. The Century, vol.
  North American Review, vol. Popular Science Monthly, vol. Harper's Magazine,
vol. Forty-Eighth Annual Report of the Massachusetts Board of Education,  Holyoke City
Documents,  Fifteenth Annual Report of the
Rhode Island Board of Education,  Forty-Second
and Forty-Third Annual Report of the New York Board
of Education, Ohio School Report,  Annual Report
of the Board of Education of the Columbus Public
Schools, Sixty-Third Annual School Report of the City
of Philadelphia,  Illinois School Report,  ,
Thirtieth Annual School Report of the State of New
York,  Report of the Superintendent of Public
Instruction of the State of Michigan,  Annual
Schoo! Report of the State of Pennsylvania,  Albany
Public School Reports, vol., Thirty-First
Annual Report of the State Superintendent of Common Schools of Maine, School Report of Cliicago,  ,
School Report of the State Supt. of Michigan,  ,
School Report of St. Louis,  Report of the School
Committee of Boston,  Boys’ Library of Pluck and
Action, vols., Stockton’s Jolly Fellowship, Brooks’
Boy Emigrants, Dodge’s Hans Brinker, Johnson’s
Pheeton’s Rogers, Hall’s Drifting Round the World,
Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe edited by W. H. Lambert,
Hall’s Familiar Talk to Boys, ‘sop’s Fables, Hervey’s
Fun and Wisdom, Craddock’s in the Tennessee Mountains, Margaret Sidney's How They Went to Europe,
Arnault and Panckoucke’s Life and Campaigns of
Napoleon Bonaparte, Lester’s Life and Character of
Peter Cooper, Lester’s Life and Achievements of Sam
Houston, Little Pieces for Little Speakers, French’s

  Report of School Committee.

Our Boys in India, Johnson’s Rasselas, Goldsmith’s
Vicar of Wakefield, St. Pierre,s Paul and Virginia,  
vol., Mde. Johanna Spyris Red Letter Stories, Swiss
Tales, Greenwood’s Stories for Home-Folks, Six Selections from Irving’s Sketch Book edited by H. B.
Sprague, Scott’s Tales of Grandfather, edited by Edwin
Ginn, Scott’s Lady of the Lake edited by Edwin
Ginn, Scott’s Quentin Durward edited by Charlotte
M. Young, Swiss Family Robinson edited by J. H.
Stickney, Church’s Stories of the Old World, Baron
Munchausen’s Travels and Surprising Adventures,
Guliiver’s Travels into Several Remote Nations of the
World, The Coming Race, or the New Utopia, Norton’s
Life of Alexander H. Stephens, Hood’s Life of Oliver
Cromwell, Forbes’ Life of Chinese Gordon, Cooper’s
Headsman, Thompson’s Green Mountain Boys, Three
Girls of the Revolution, Chadwick’s Sports and Pastimes of American Boys, Headley’s Life of General
Sheridan, Headley’s Life of General Grant, Headley’s
Life of General Sherman, Kingsley’s Water Babies—A
Fairy Tale, Kingsley’s Heroes; or Greek Fairy Tales,
Charles and Mary Lamb’s Tales from Shakespeare, Mrs.
Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin, Butterworth’s Young Folk’s
History of America.

Park Street Grammar School.
GRADUATES JUNE,  .
AGE. NAME, WHERE THEY ARE.
  Bertha R. Antz, High School.
  Anna IK. Baldwin, High School.
  Nellie M. Barrett, High School.
 u-  Mamie T.. Downey, At Home.
  Lena W. Freeman, At Home.
  Fannie E. Potvin, High School.
  Ella R. Rvan, High School.
  Jennie IX. Small, High School.
  Hattie KE. Smitb, High School.
  Thomas J. Dowd, High School.
  Jobn J. Fenton, High School.
  Philip P. Fitzsimmons, High School.
  Michael J. Flynn, High School.
  Robert E. Freeman, High School.
  Robert S. Hart, High School.
  Wm. B. Howard, Park Street.
  Herbert Marshall, Park Street.
  Murty J. McGrath, High School.
  John H. Ranger, High School.
  Jesse FE. Sheldon, High School.
  Maurice H. Shine, High School.
  Wilfred M. St George, High School.
Average age of the class is years, months.
THE LIBRARIES.

The Pupil’s Library was established January ;
and now numbers volumes, costing The
aim has been to give the pupils better opportunity to
read good books in place of the pernicious literature so

  Report of School Committee.

common among school children. The best books of History, poetry, travels, biography and fiction are now circulated weekly among the pupils of the upper grades,
while books adapted to their comprehension are read by
the teachers to the pupils of the lower grades.

The books of travel and biography are used as reading books to supplement the work of geography and
history. The result is more interest in the dry details
of those studies and greater knowledge of men, places
and events as well as love for good books.

The Teachers’ Library was founded January ,
and now numbers volumes, costing Our aim
has been to secure, as far as our limited means will
allow, useful library. For this purpose we have collected reports of different cities and states, books of
reference and biography as well as those that treat of
the science and art of teaching.

During the past year about volumes have been
drawn out by teachers, who are thus becoming familiar
with and putting into daily practice the best methods
of teaching. ,

The following books have been added during the
year:—

Trumbull’s Teachers and Teaching, Blaine’s Twenty
Years in Congress, vol.  Calendar of American History, Shoemaker’s Dialogues, Gately’s Universal Educator, Anderson’s History of the United States, Craig’s
Common School Question Book, Richardson’s Choice of

- Books, Eggleston’s How to Educate Yourself, Derby’s
Fifty Years Among Authors, Books and Publishers,
Bang’s Outlines of Map-Drawing, Mrs. Gardner’s English History in Rhyme, Hinsdale’s School and Studies,
Holbrook’s The Normal! Method of Teaching, Trumbull’s
The Teacher Taught, Hill’s True Order of Studies, Our ,
Famous Women, Ainger’s Life of Charles Lamb, Trail’s
Life of Coleridge, Nichol’s Life of Lord Byron, Myer’s

Report of School Committee.  
Life of Wordsworth, Johnson’s Education by Doing,
Smith’s Evolution of Dodd, New England Gazeeteer,
Zel’s Encyclopedia, vols.  Atlantic Monthly, vol. |
 North American Review, vol.  Literary World,
vol.  Harper’s Monthly vol.  Wide Awake, vol.  ,
The Century, vol.  DeGraff’s School Room Guide,
Reports of Superintendents of leading cities, vols.,
Annual Reports of the Board of Education of the State
of Minnesota, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, New York, vols.,
Annual Reports of the Massachusetts Board of Educasion, vols., Circulars of Information from the Bureau
of Education, vol.  Mateaux’s Brave Lives and Noble,
Butterworth’s Zizzag Journeys in Acadia, Hale’s A
Family Flight Around Home, Miller’s Little People of
Asia, Mrs. Sanford’s From May to Christmas, Mrs.
Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin, Richardson’s Life of U.  S.
Grant, VanWert's Travels in Foreign Lands, Our Little
Ones, vol.  ., Drake’s Indian History for Young Folks,
Sophie May’s Janet, Johnson’s Pheaton Rogers, Stockton’s Jolly Fellowship, Rudder Grange, Clark’s Boy’s
Life in the U.S. Navy, Mrs. Smith’s The Browns, Mrs.
Ewing’s Jackanapes, Brayman’s Daring Deeds of
American Heroes, Sarah Bolton’s Poor Boys Who
Became Famous.

Nonotuck Street Grammar School.
GRADUATES JUNE,  .
AGE. NAME. WHERE THEY ARF.
 Emma Brooks, At Home.
  Dora Howes, High School.
  Flora Miles, High School.
  Grace Sullivan, High School.
  Lulu Thayer, igh School.
  Bertha Thorpe, Appleton St. School.
  Grace Clough, Nonotuck St. Scbool.
  Walter Brown, High School.
  James Crowley, High School.
  Jobn O’Connell, High School.
  Regie Thorpe, High School.
  John Sbine, High School.
  Harry Sackett, High School.

Average age of girls, years, months. Average age of boys,  

years,  months. Average age of class, years, months,
THE LIBRARIES.
SCHOLARS’ LIBRARY.

Kellogg’s Burying the Hatchet, Kellogg’s Black
Rifles Mission, Kellogg’s Forest Glen, Kellogg’s Sowed
by the Wind, Goldsmith’s Poems, How Eva Roberts
Obtained her Education, Lady Callcott’s ‘‘Little
Arthur’s History of England,’’ Tefft’s Life of Daniel
Webster, Brown’s Life of O. W. Holmes, McCabe’s His- |
tory of United States, Johnson’s Old French War, J.
H. Young’s ‘Our Deportment,’’ Monteith’s Popular

Report of School Committee.  
Science Reader, Scott’s Red Gauntlett, Scott’s Rob Roy,
McAlpine’s Treasures from the Prose World, Maggie
Symington’s Working to Win, Tresser’s Youth’s Golden
Cycle.
TEACHERS’ LIBRARY.

Townsend’s The New World Compared with the Old,
Adams’ Dictionary of the English Language, Poems of
George Eliot, Green’s Analysis, Towne’s Fourth Reader,
Scribner’s Geographical Reader, Greenleaf’s Common 
School Arithmetic, Coburn’s Common School Arithmetic, Swett’s Methods of Teaching, Johonnot’s Principles and Practice of Teaching, Mrs. Livermore’s ‘‘ What
shall we do with our Daughters ?’ Report of the
School Boards of the following places:—Boston, Lawrence, Hartford, New Haven, Providence, Philadelphia.
Book of reference for the School: Zell?s Popular Encyclopaedia, (latest eddition. )

MISCELLANEOUS.

Total number of books in Libraries  Cost of
books purchased this year Scholars of the
eighth and ninth grades are allowed to draw books from
the library. Books may be Kept one week. One of the
pupils acts as librarian. The tendency is strongly
toward works of fiction. But the scholars are urged
to read mostly books that will directly supplement,
rather than displace, the regular school studies.

  Report of School Committee.
QUESTIONS FOR THE HIGH SCHOOL ENTERING EXAMINATIONS, JUNE,  .
ARITHMETIC.

 What is prime number, factor, composite
number, the greatest common divisor, multiple, the
least common multiple, an improper fraction, decimal
fraction, compound number, percentage ?

 Ifa man loses of an investment, then gains
$  and has how much was his investment? How much was his loss ?

 Sold watch for gaining per cent., would
there have been gain or loss, and what per cent., had
the watch been sold for  ?

 A.and B. starting from the same point, walk  
hours day; A. going north mile in minutes and
B. going west mile in minutes. What distance !
separates them at the end of the fourth day?

 If men working nine hours day, in days
build me wall feet thick, feet high and feet long,
in how many days of hours each will twice the number
of men build my neighbor wall feet thick, feet
high and feet long ?

 customer buying goods at my mill, leaves  
days’ note which immediately deposit in the bank for
discount, obtaining Whatis the face of the
note ?

 What is the worth, at  per cord, of piles of
  foot wood, measuring one feet long and feet high ;
one feet long and feet high, and one feet long and
  feet high ?

 Forming partnership, A. puts in  for '
months, B.  for months, C.  for months.
They lose What was each man’s loss ?

Report of School Committee.  

 When it is o'clock in New York, (longitude
  deg., Om., sec. W. it is minutes past in the
Bermudas. Find the logitude of the Bermudas.

 In what time will  gain  interest
at per cent.

HISTORY.

 How much did Columbus accomplish towards the
discovery of the New World and how was he rewarded ?

 Give brief account of what happened at Plymouth, Quebec, Jamestown, Bunker Hill, Appomattox.

 What were the causes of the Revolution? The
Mexican War? The Civil War? |

 Name the Presidents of the United States in their
order and tell the term of service of each.

 About the surrender of the British army at Yorktown, tell the year, name of commanding gen
eral on either side, number of troops on either
side, effect of the news upon Congress, and
upon the War and Nation.

 Give the places, date and work (briefly) of the
First Continental Congress, of the Second Continental
Congress, the time, place and authors of the Declaration of Independence and the body which adopted it.

  Nature of Articles of Confederation. Give the
body by which the Constitution of the United States
was first adopted, the place, time, and point out the difference between its powers and those of the Articles.

 Give brief but comprehensive account of the
Administration which you consider the most important.
State time of beginning and ending; measures and means
employed for carrying them out; good or bad results.

 For what were these persons chiefly distinguished:
Daniel Webster, Henry Clay, David Wilmot, Stephen
A. Douglas, John Brown ?

 Name and give the authors of five leading American inventions.

  Report of School Committee.
GEOGRAPHY.

 What is the shape of the Earth? What motions
has the Earth? What is great circle? small circle?
The Equator? meridian? What are Parallels? What
are the Tropics?

 What is latitude and how measured on the map ?

  longitude  C
‘é ‘‘ the greatest possible latitude in degrees ?
  cé  longitude  

 Name and tell location of all the Zones. Give

breadth in degrees. What determines their breadth ?
 Which isthe most important zone? Why ?

 Where do we find the largest mountain system,
and what isits extent? Where the next, and what is
its extent? Name and locate the loftiest mountain peak
in Europe. In Asia. In Mexico. In South America.

In New England. In the World.

 Name the States of the Union with their capitals.

 Draw an outline map of Illinois, showing and
naming the borders of all border States and waters.
Locate the capital and the chief city.

 What are the five leading agricultural products of
the United States, and where found in  greatest
abundance? What are the five chief mineral products
and where found in greatest abundance ?

 Name and tell the form of each of the five great
governments, which together control more than one-half
the land surface of the globe.

 Describe the water way from London, England, to.
Bombay, by naming twelve bodies of water traversed
and six most important countries passed on the route.

 Name the races of men and teil what countries
each race inhabits. .

Report of School Committee.  
SPELLING, LANGUAGE AND GRAMMAR.

 By dictation—  words, Rivalry, parsimony,
receipt, illustrate, permit, superintendent, pursuit,
ingenious, recollect, transient, rebellion, accessory, plurality, difference, narrative, semi-annual, deference,
expedient, malignant, proficient, luxuriant, greasy,
weasel, monkey, reindeer. ,

 By dictation—The following letter reproduced in
proper style, with possessives, abbreviations, punctuation and other marks.

HoLyokeE, Mass., June .

Hon. WM. Wuirine, M. C.,

My dear Sir,

Many are asking, ‘‘Will the bill
pass?’ and some are exclaiming, ‘‘Fight it! Fight it
with Hercules’ energy!’ but the more thoughtful, with
Pres. Theo. Woolsey, LL.D., Rev. J. R. Adams, D. D.,
and Jas. B. Stuart, M. D, are content to await time’s
determination.

Mr. Hawks said to me the other day, ‘‘I think the two
Jameses’ claim is valueless.’’ Mr. H. did not know that
your Mr. James’s money had been paid. Believing that
you will always do right for the right’s sake, am

Respectfully,
JAMES ADAMS.

 Show in brief sentences the use of prepositional
phrase, participal phrase, an infinitive phrase, noun
clause, an adverbial. ,

 Write compound sentence containing simple
clause and complex clause.

 Analyze the following sentence: /’rom the neighboring school house come the boys with more than their
wonted noise and commotion, and down the wet streets
sail their mimic j/eets till the treacherous pool engulfs
them in its whirling and turbulent ocean.

 Parse the words Italicised in the above sentence.

  Report of School Committee.

 Write the present tense, the past tense, and the
past participle of tread, tell, spoil, shrink, speak, speed,
say, lie (to reeline), lie (to tell falsehood), lay (to
place).

 Write the plural of datum, radius, mouse, oasis,
analysis, wharf, leaf, die, penny and attorney.

 Give the feminine form of beau, monk, youth,
executor, nephew. Write the possessive singular and
plural of Englishman, brother-in-law, man-servant, sister, Ox.

 Change to the passive ‘‘The Greek chased the
Tartar and caught him,’’ making only necessary changes.

 Write out the following sentences and correct the
faulty ones.

 He very seldom or ever does.

 He told us how that time is money.

 Itis his virtues, and not his wealth, that gives him
honor.

 Intended to have done it yesterday. ‘

 lalways have and always shall be an admirer of
Poe.

 Canteens were issued to the soldiers with short
necks.

 This will be in accordance to your ideas.

 Hespoke of Peter’s the Hermit’s eloquence.

 The teacher lived to learn was the lesson.

 The jury is individually responsible.
€

Evening School, Begun October Ended
December .
.le,/  g
TEACHERS. SCHOOL. E P
ge |eh&&  
J. J. Keane, Chestnut Street,  B.  an  B
J.C. Sullivan, “.  .
K. A. Griffin,  .
C. L. Thorpe, “*  .
N. O'Connell,  ,
K. Shine,  .
N. F. Reilly,  .
J. A. Callahan, Chestnut Street, .
(French.)
O. Genest,  .
G. Mitivier,  .
O. Mitivier,  .
M. L. Griffin, Dwight Street, 
J. R. Sullivan,  .
N. E. O’Gara,  .
M. C. Lynch,  .
M. Walsh, ..  ,
. G.F. Bassett, Germania Hall.  
W.G. Dwight, “.  .
M. Herbert,  .
K. A. Mahoney, .*  .
J. E. Scolley,  .
E. A. McDonald,  ).
M. L. Connor, “t  .
N. Hamel, Precious Blood. 
(French)
A. Worswick,  .
D. Chausse,  .
D. F. Cleary,  .
A. Nahmer, Park St.(German)  
G. Wilms, |
elee

‘N bd .
Table Showing Location of Schools, Names of
Teachers, Salaries and Com. of Service.
ent COMMENCEMENT
TEACHERS. oe OF LOCATION OF SCHOOLS.
. SERVICE.
W.&E. Judd,  Aug. Eln Street,
J.P. Cushing, Aug.  
B. H. Bell, Aug.  
H. B. Warner, Aug. ‘
M. C. Hubbard, Sept.  ve
H. B. Lawrence, Aug. Appleton Street.
C. A. Swan, Aug.  IS  .
M. E. Lawley, Sept. es  s
E. T. Finch, Nov. vs
K. C. Williams, Oet.  “
F. E. Kelt, June, 
S. M. Mayo,  Dec. sé
L. M. Walton, April, *
S. M. Maxfield, Jan.  .s
E. M. Wilson, Nov. ws
M. E. Webster, Dee. '
A. Schaefer, Aug. South Chestnut Street.
M. L. Connor, April,  bi vc “
. S. J. C. Todd, April, vc “
B. O. Goldthwait, Aug.  “
kK. A. Mahoney,  April, be rz  
KF. O'Neill, April, .
J. KE. Newell, Sept. ts oe be
M. GG. Eaton, May,  rT be
W.F. Nichols, Aug. Park Street.
M.C. Lamb, May, “
EK. S. Smith, Sept. “e
A. W. Mitchell, Sept. ve rr
A.C. Flanders, June,  ve .
S. A. Clifford, Aug. ry  
C. E. Ashley, Sept.  ‘“*
L. K. Washburne, Mch.  ‘
M. B. Berry, Jan.  &&  os  
J. E. Scolley, Sept.  Ss  rr Pr
R. Motneys Aug. be ts
E. S. Morgan, April, reet.
KE. A. MeDonald, Sept. IRS  Sargeant Street
CG. S. Clark, Nov. bb
K. T. yeepin. Sept. 
C. H. Buckley, Sept. os
L. A. Chapman, Jan. “
J. R. Sullivan, Sept. vi “
C. M. Bond, Mch. ve “
K. M. Kennelly, Sept.  SX  bs  s
N. E. O'Gara, Nov.  
R. M. Papiltion, Nov. sc
A. M. Morgan, Dec. Lyman Street.
M. FE. Curtis, April, arn oc
kK. M. Pattee, Aug. re
k, A. Griffin, Feb.  

. Report of School Committee.  
|
. COMMENCEMENT |
TEACHERS. Ry. OF LOCATION OF SCHOOLS.
SERVICE.
M. A. Healey. Nov. Lyman Street.
H. M. Cleveland,  Sept. Dwight Street.
M. O'Connell, April. he “
A. L. Kennelly, Aug. “. “
E. M. Swind.  Sept. vs
E. M. Wellington,  Aug. ‘s 
E. H. Perry, May, I& 
S. E. Hayward, Aug. “
B. E. Lynch, Jan. ‘s
G. A. Bond. Sept. “s “
M. M. Moriarty, Aug. Chestnut Street.
K. C. Donoghue, Aug. ve
L. A. Arnold, Aug. “s  
B. R. Mann, Sept. ve
FE. L. Farnum. Sept. 
E. J. Whitaker. June.  “
F. M. Stedman, Sept.  “s “
L. B. Megrath,  Nov.  
L. Strong, Sept.  ee
J. A. Callahan, Sept. Nonotuck Street.
A. L. Pomeroy, Aug.  
J. R. Reardon, Jan. “s
S. Coombs, June, 
E. M. Juda, May, “
M. C. Cleveland,  H) Oct, ve
N. F. Reilley,  May, ‘s “s
G. H. LeDoyt,  Dec. Elmwood.
M. E. Ford,  Aug. Ewingville.
E. M. Bartlett, Jan. Ingleside.
K. M. Holines, AM) May, West Street.
M. E. Keith,  Aprildks  West Holvoke.
A. M. Spaiter, Om) Sept. Drawing and Writing.
F Zuchtinan, June, Vocal Music.
( ‘

First Term, Beginning September  Ending
December ,
Average Average |Per ct. Visits Visits} Who'te
TEACHERS. Member- Attend- |Attend-| of of of Schools.
ship. ance. ance.  Supt./Com. Visits:
C. S. Hemingway...... |..... |......]...... |High School.
J.P. Cushing....  . le ce lee     lew fr  eelec ? ‘
T. W. Martin...  ...)  ck  fcc een celine cree fee f cedec ? ‘
H. B. Warner..........   fecesces lew [  feve| | of ‘*
M.C. Hubbard....... fo... fee  faeces few  lense fow  eof OS ‘.
H. B. Lawrence....... |Appleton St.
C. A. Swan...    ] ce ce  leew ce  ] ce  lene oe]  ewes ce “
M. E. Lawley ......... oe... ;
E. T. Finch ........... |... ‘“s
K. C. Williams......... |...... ..
F. E. Kelt.............. “*
S.M. Mayo............ Lenee s
L. M. Walton ......  j.. ...! “
S. M. Maxfield......... |......! ‘
E. M. Wilson ,....... [......) ae ’
M. G. Eaton .. ......, 
A. Schaefer. ........... ‘s
M. E. Thorpe weenie  re re *
W.F. Nichols.......... |. .... ‘Park st.
M. C. Lamb... ce lee cc  lee leew   elec et cef se|    “
E.  S. Smith.... wees j..... 
A. W. Mitchell ...... |...... ‘s
A.C. Flanders .. ..... |...... ‘“e
S. A. Clifford.......... .. “s
B.  Goldthwait ..... uv |......  
C. E. Ashley........... *,
L. K. Washburne ..... |...... “
M. B. Berry ........... ‘,
J. E. Newell........... |.. . “.
J.B. Sconley cc.  bee  cc leew    teccelereles  tfe ae 
E. L. Farnum......... Loe.  .
E. S. Morgan.... we |. oe. Sargeant st.
Nw EB. O'Gara... cc lee ecw eel   eleccna| seelec  |  *
C. H. Buckley...... .. “
C.S. Clark ... wees De “e
K. T. Chapin....... .. |...... ‘
L. A. Chapman........ On“s
C. M. Bond............ |...... “
K. M. Kennelly. ...... ‘“
R. M. Papillion .......  ]... “
N. E. O’Gara,.......... |. .... “
J. R. Sullivan.......... eo) .
A. M. Morgan......... (Lyman st.
N. F. Reilley... ...cc  dee  ce doce  f | cs cefece ees }
K. M. Pattee........... “s
K. A. Griffiv.  ... OH 
M. A. Healey.......... ,
H. M. Cleveland....... |Dwight st. }
A. L. Kennelly ..... 
E. M. Swind..... .....  
C. B. Fairchild ....... oto... “s
J

Report of School Committee.  
Average Average ‘Per ct.| Visits) Visits; Whole
TEACHERS. Member-| Attend- |Attend-| of of of Schools.
ship. ance. ance. |Supt. |Com. Visits.
S. E. Hayward.... ...| |i... closes. |Dwight st.
B. E. Lynch ........ .., |..... *
G A. Bond.......... |...... “
D. Stratton sees iChestnut st.
K. C. Donoghue........|....    fec |  cele  “
H. E. MeCoy........... eo
L. A. Arnold ..... “s
B R. Mann ........... ‘
E. J. Whitaker..... ., ty “
F. M. Stedinan......... se
L. B. Megrath ...... go} |... “
L. Strong —.  ‘
J. A. Callahan ........  |Nonotuck st.
A. L. Pomeroy.. .. ‘
J. A. Reardon ....... wee. “
S. Coombs............. j..... “s
E.M. Judd............ |...... “
M. C. Cleveland........ te
G. H. LeDoyt..... .... Ww  |... |Elmwood.
L. D. Merrick.......... ]......! “
M. E. Ford... |...... (Ewingville.
E. M. Bartlett.........! |... |Ingleside.
K.M. Holmes..........) |...... |West st.
M. E. Keith........... |......) {West Holyoke
Total,  
A. M. Spalter, teacher of Drawing and Writing.
F. Zuchtinan, teacher of Vocal Music.

(
Second Term, Beginning January  Ending»
| Visite!
Average Average Pr. Ct. Visits Visits] Wh Je |
TEACHERS. Member-, Attend- |Attend-) of of No. Schools.
ship. ance. ance. |Supt.! Com. Visits. |
Cc. S. Hemingway,. ... a) sees. [High School. |
J.P. Cushing,.........fo.   fence    teenference .
H. B. Warner,.........{c cc  feces  ec seaec|s lececcefes co  ‘
M. C. Hubbard,........[......  pec   fec  le ceasfec | we
H. B. Lawrence,.......  |Appleton st.
C. A. Swany...  ]   el     lowe ene  fee  “
M.E. Lawley,.........  keene 
E. T. Finch,.. ..... ... rece “
K. C. Williams,........ tesa ve
F.E. Kelt,...  ...) ff BM
S. M. Mayo.............  
L. M. Walton, ....... “e
S. M. Maxfield,........ eens ‘
EK. M. Wilson,..........| QD [ep “
M. G. Eaton,...........  ne  
A. Shaefer,...........  ‘
M. E. Webster,........  .
W. F. Nichols,.........  ... |Park st.
M.C. Lamb,......   fee   pec lene l  cul  [  aed of
E.S. Smith. ........... Lees ““
A.W. Mitchell,........]By}  
A.C. Flanders,........ Lees “
S. A. Chlifford,.....  ... ve   “
B. O. Goldthwait,......   se
C. E. Ashley,..........   “s
L. K. Washburne,..... n “
M. B. Berrys oes se-   ‘“
J. E. Newell,. ......... be   “e
J. E. Scolley,...  ... [  ce  lien ce      ee] fec ff
E. L. Farnum,......--.  ae vc
E.S. Morgan,..........   |Sargeant st.
E. Me COdvs-oreress : Se ane
C. H. Buckley,..... ... wee“
C.S. Clark............. ewes “
K. T. Chapin,......... Levees “
L. A. Chapman, eens   
C. M. Bond........... veces “s
K. M. Kennelly..... ... 
R. M. Papillion,........ n “s
N. E. O'Gara... wees 
J R- Sullivan,........- “
A. M. Moryan,......... Nan st.
N. F. Reilley,..  ... fee cep lence   ce  lec ence nace tn *
K. M. Pattee, ......... “s
K. A. Griffin,.......... ‘e
M. A. Healey,..........| w\ ot
H.M.Cleveland........] {Dwight st. ‘
D COPRI  S)  oh ag DO ‘s
A. L. Kennelly,........ Rg “
E M. Swind,........ .. HY) ‘
C’. B. Fairchild,........  
q

Report of School Committee.  
| Average Average Pr. Ct. Visits Visits! Whole
TEACHERS. |Member-| Attend- .Attend-' of of No. Schools.
ship. ance. ance. Supt. ey Visits.

S. E. Hayward,.... ... *
B. E. Lynceh,. ......... ‘G. A. Bond... ......... “
D. Stratton.............  Chestnut st.
K.C. Donoghue,......  ee]        fe cefee   aces ‘s
H. E. MeCoy,........  “
L A. Arnold,.......... ‘*
B. R. Mann,...........  ‘s
E. J. Whitaker,.. ..... Of Lees ‘*
F.M.Stedman,.. ......  —C“‘X;);! OB  ... s
L. B. Meyrath,......... ae i) ‘*
L. Strong... BS wy fo do fon. &
J. A. Callahan........- Nonotuck st.
A. L. Pomeroy,..  ... foc     Lecce  bee cuelececcrbeuee ceca .:
J. A. Reardon... ....... Od vs
S. Coombs, ............ Yr ‘s
ELM. Judd. oo.  ... a) “s
M.C. Cleveland,....... ‘aad tee  “s
G. H. LeDoyt, ........ ci Baptist Vill’ge
E. H. Ives.......... ... xY “* *
M. E. Ford............. S-+ L  ‘Ewingville.
E. M. Bartlett.......... bene Ingleside.
K. M. Holimes,......... rats) [orcs West street.
M.E. Keith, .......... becaee  'W. Holyoke.

Total, |

A. M. Spalter, teacher of Drawing and Writing.
F. Zuchtman, teacher of Music.
a’

|
Third Term, Beginning April  Ending June
  .
Average Average Pr. Ct. Visits’ Visits Whole 
TEACHERS. Member Attend- |Attend-| of of No. Schools.
ship. ance. ance. Supt.| Com.) Visits.
C.S. Hemingway,. ... —- ..J.......-]/High school. J.P. Cushing,..... ...]......  lew    fe oe  le   cele wesc]  “. “
I. W. Martin, ....  ).   lec  celene   elec   tfesee ] Ot ns
H. B. Warner,........ [occ  elec ce fe     le ce ce fececc , of “*
M. C. Hubbard,......  ). ce ce fee fe neces c [ “s
H. B. Lawrence,. ..... jAppleton st.
C. A. Swany...   deck  epe teed  ceca lence es  alee  ! .
M. E. Lawley,......... Qo...  
EK. T. Finch, .......... ‘“
K. Williams,........  ... ‘*
F. E. Kelt,.... ........ ... .. ‘s
S. M. Mayo,..... ......  |... we   “s
L. M. Walton,..... .. ...... ‘
S. M. Maxfield,.... ... j...... se
E. M. Wilson.......... BR li} en “
M. E. Webster,.... ... fi... 
A. Schaefer,...........  |So. Chestnut. |
M. L. Connor,....  ... pice  lec ete elec lee   fer nee “
L. M. O’Neill,.......... “
K. A. Mahoney,........ “
J E. Newell,........... “s
M. G. Eaton,........... “
W. F. Nichols,........ |Park st.
M.C. Lamb,....  ele  ce   le    peewee (ec sl csad of
E.S.Smith,............ |...... 
A. W. Mitchell,.... ... |...... ‘
A.C. Flanders,........ *$
S. A. Clifford,.......... “
B. O. Goldthwait,...... “
C. E. “s
L. K. Washburne,..... “s
M. B. Berry,...........)   cele   t     de ce   celer l of
J. E. Scolley, .......... *
E. L. Farnuin,......... 
E. S. Morgan,..........  |Sargeant st.
E. A. McDonald, ...... ... fc cc  lee  doce cele   ce|e  “
C. H. Buckley,. ....... J... we fee  . “
C.S. Clark,............ ]...... ‘s
K. T. Chapin,.......... “s
L. A. Chapman,....... Lene “
C. M. Bond,............ 
K. M. Kennelly,  ...)     ewes lec cle lecere ‘
R. M. Fapillion,. sec “s
N.E O'’Gara,.......... |...... ‘s |
J.R. Sullivan,......... OS |. oe. lee   
A. M. Morgan,.... .... {Lyman st.
N. F. Reilley, .........)..  cfc       elec ] tl cs “
K. M. Pattee,.......... |......  a
K. A. Griftin,... ...... “s
M.A. Healey....... ... |...... 
H. M. Cleveland,.. .... |Dwight st.
M. O’Connell,......  ...      ce  dees  lece [ese[eree  “s 
A. L. Kennelly,..... .. *
q

Report of School Committee.  
{ |
| Average Average! Pr. Ct. Visits Visits! Whole
TEACHERS. 'Member-, Attend- Attend of of No. Schools.
| ship. ance. ance. Supt.| Com.| Visits.
E. M. Swind,...... ... Mo, fi... {Dwight st.
E.H. Perry,...........)  (OB “
S. E. Hayward,........ vt
B. Lyneh,. ......... ()  
G. A. Bond.......  ...) “
D. Stratton............ Ys rer [Chestnut st.
K.C. Donoghue...  ... ee. welis  lies cP.
H. EF. MeCoy....  ...)  ... “
LAL Arnolds...  );  wm for jit}  fos
iB. R. Mann, oe... oe.  Lees “*

E J. Whitaker,........) BR BS nae "
M. E. Curtis...  cb     cele  teeter eet fence eel   eens “s
F.M. Stedman,....... of...... ‘s
L. B. Megrath.......... |... ““
L. Strong... ccs) AB ee)oe “
J.-A. Callahan, ........ uy at)  |Nonotucek st.
A. L. Pomeroy,.... cele    ce  be Leen   lence cele ce   “.
J. A. Reardon,......... en ve
S. Coombs,............ BB “
E. M. Judd,........... oo... “s
M. C. Cleveland,...... to  i... “
G. H. Le Doyt,.........  OCS  |BaptistVillage
F. H. Ives............. .
M. E. Ford, .......... |...... lEwingville.
E. M. Bartlett..........  |Ingleside.
K. M. Holmes,.. ...... West street.
M. E. Keith........... |W. Holyoke.

Total, .....  

A. M. Spalter, teacher of Drawing and Writing.

F. Zuchtman, teacher of Vocal Music.

Statistics for School Year  .
SCHOOLS.  g
| an 
HighSchoo,. .. ... .
Appleton Street,.  ... .,  
Park Street, ...  
Sargeant Street,. .” |
Lyman Street, ... .” ,
Dwight Street, ...  ); .
Chestnut Street Grammar,  |
Chestnut Street Primary, |
South Chestnut Street,  
Nonotuck Street, ,  
Klmwood,. ....,  
Ewingville, ..  
Ingleside,  ...  
West Street,  ...  
West Holyoke,  |
Total, .....  
|

Report of School Committee  
e
| AMPASAATLLELCe re |
‘SST Sete So See
eRrIESee FZaz —
Fre AT TIN FTAFLISE :
| oor eT STSshidg,  )
* tEex Es lTTsATos OQ
a BAST,  »
 Cette ev Zar Zain oa
  [Pets rsnscise —-tea
  “Mo fy Soy, BEB TET J
z oO sat ates sta  ar ZSlosrtee tz o
| Park yee 'Z
 CRs aes ao ant :
. aot  me St i
o& fo |
 |
Pe oh —
‘A Ud OCD. *j
| OR EFS SEPT PTPDPATS STS Material. !
  ereoe
| Fr  |
| oa OT
|   OROR Oe COR)
x FREE Er RAKES SEP OK ;
odCe i
 awn Se SBS OKS qw  .
|  HERS SHAS SESZSERS Size of Lots.
. X& wd ]
lan thant inenc banc han. enc anc heschanc hance tas oemc lien chess) !
SITS
 ag |-EP EP EEE PRISE .
, |
an eet et ee
 wee sues twee Se  y
S Starr oxeDsSzzszivt Value of Land.
|Of
Gt SS SescS 
|  || p
 pee nF Fe Ra ok ES S
/ Reeve ne Zusrtzze sys
st SSS TSH TZ DZS   Value of Buildings. || fs]
 ZZZPZASEHEESESS oO
SIT DIS DIV IS SIS IS IS NG |
ELTSZLBRLSER Condition 
—e Se Be we Gwe ty it lord .
| ZZ" ZAVEV*E "ETE any
Rot   ns aancax nese “No. of Rooms. ee
J wy ww No. of Furnaces. |; So
\eV—"————— Sr  F— —OOOOoo HT
 ween ww  No. of Stoves. OS
ae mwSw woe No. of Boilers. Oo
ar 
# |
an moow vame of Heati
z ewe be Zeer Eze alue of Heating ne]
& ESSLRULSZZSSEES Apparatus. "im
ze ES PSTSTSETSETEL me
[ 
(  op we SHLSTERESS  
| ES PRESESSDES No.of Single Desks.;/ }&
e
—-|—.  ct
— te
  ys No.of Double Desks’, OO OO kek ———oowwWwee”,
  ae eteNSL ET SBREE® sates |
z HRSSTE SATE SETSNUGE No. of Sittings. }
|
— —| —— re |
ve .. vege |
| ts See huSSzes No. of Pupils .
| wut CS CS et dee wt Enrolled. |
| wR
 |
lame cr Sr sep
ray MWS Spee eny seus Value of Furniture.
 ERSZVU EZ EECEZESSE |
 LEE eS SSSSTSSSEESVEES  
ied
i) nk peek AD tet
  ot Bop er as) By nye Value of Books
we wakes PSZ nz and Apparatus.
 QYLSc ks Cae ede SDweoes
—& wEnS FERVESEEUES
Se
i we Wy Oe bh wh
So) pene Pe RES |
& BEX RSSESHRSEREOLZS Total Valuation.
x SMSSSRKXIB SONAR ARS |
 {
ma Mee wre eyaunsaw SBEDERSFw xe SEnSH

| $oumrozczomymrrzeeroucrersyce :
GaSe PREPS SSTISTEES ES TELEVEEE
Sl aeck Rio ESEZSEEI GS STEN ITS 
e|Gc, GREET EE’ Toe tPLIazee z
a Sle tee:  SEE xD Re Cote Es cso Ze FR Char ah a
Fm as  Gt KR wt tes Ch
| PSEGG RE  :
a "
aan  ah A
a ane ne Absentees from
he Sueur Fann cubys we moose Appleton.
 cSow ow Half day's ab- ,
  eSSESUESSRSSSS  SRI SF sences. |
  mt aa  Absentees from |
  WStTWn SFuw oxte nr ow wx ark. |
ea Steves Fs Half day’s ab SS  oS  Size E&  sences.
  es Absentees from
& pas fe ou  wo esft Sargeant. )
S|  ee. eos Be es Halfday'sab- |
ol SRR SNe SE oS  Sences @
 Absentees from 
€@l  eSeEn  oc  me oe me wil Lyman, os
fl ou eoop |Halfday'sab- ||
Slo weseses Eq wom mw sences,
ube Absentees from || &
Ss SSetektsxin ann Ba eww YF ss Dwight BUSES oeSe nee S$ Half days ab- SIH es ZO Dw wt sences. S
an Absentees from ra
) ENS. uw ew an Chestnut (Gram)|! @
S re By  Half days ab- 
#l FRESE Ss ew OF Se SL sences. 
oe Absentees from || @
Fl wo ERSanN GH XS Fw wo oT oT OO Chestnut (Prim.)|| sometn or || Halt day’s ab- ot
 SE SB sences || bm P
— Absentees from ||  
Be or) Pac  OD  NUR RS  ar South Chestnut. Se
—- ms Half day’s ab- 
| ela CSe  FB sences. oe
re  ae mee Absentees from &
  SO £SEE  See BG SUS wzuS Nonotuck. my
  SyBe-na TE somos Halfday'sab- ||  
Sto PERSNgs Be SLUSH sences. 
oo Absentees from || &
o he eh he Elmwood. fH
  or wo oS gr Halt day's ab- sc
 sences. |
Lo: Absentees from || @
ze st wer om et we  Ewingville. S,
| nar  Half day’s ab- 
lO See tn sences.
| es Absentees from
ve mee me wo Ingleside.
ss ae tos Half day’s abel Se So Se ec. me em  sences.
| Absentees from
| West st.
| Half day’s ab| sence.
. Absentees from
 Ssxr moe West Holyoke.
| os Half day’s ab- a
Sho St SUMCCS
vs ou  EEEee fee Be ego eEeg| Total absentecs
ee I
| Fa Uo NSE  se ona ole epee Total absences.
Bi cewsvtFSASSUZENSzSZesxeh at sraesxkeSY
(

Report of School Committee.  
EXPENDITURES FOR THE YEAR ENDING
DECEMBER .

Teachers’ Salaries,  
Superintendent,  
Truant Officers,  
Janitors,  
Text Book Clerk,  
Books and Maps,  
Supplies,  
Evening Schools,  
Furniture,  
Hampden County Truant Schools,  
Contingent,  
West Springfield,  

Totals,  

|
School Calendar.
 .
re ae oe sf] tT are
sal alslS)  Jaaldle  |
 OD  mae SS || RY  mS .
 ESEES Pel hl aol:
— SN as (eens po meme [  (gees Or er
Jan. ql Qi July,  }. |
|   |
   
'     ls stg
| oH Pai toe bowels bas bo Pee [de fae few ere]  
Feb.  |
Vis asizis  )" Babathbisa 
| /  
jr e|ee|- en edae Peee
| Mar. Pa fl aa to )
 Sept. aes]
|   )  
| ||  
April, fF) oh Oct. al     }  || ta  
May, Nov. |
BN at ah glegl oil et Lal data
| O|   
'  ) se bd is 
June, Vay  pales este
|   Dee. Ae  
|   | 
pt ee,  !
The Heavy Figures Indicate Vacations and Holidays. |
Digitized by Google |

Digitized by Google

Digitized by Google

eo pas  ”
 wa .
e ‘
 AL uo
“ b, .
. Sr tae. .
. Ve ‘
 :
.  Bi
*
 
iY .
. s
Hs “
t a
i 
a ie: '
e oe Wy é
ae
eH
—.- 
Es i
 Zee
- -. aa
Eo. ib
oe x.
ae “fp
. ao hal
an  |
e- ws
 i
a ”.:
: ia
,  Wie
f
nm  vi
 ae ba
- ro
 ow  ]
a ewy
.  off ’
a |
. Sn  ——

e  SS SS CESea 
Ay SS Se  ——,”—OS SS
SS SS Ss BS Ss Bee  SS Se FS es SS SS eS Sees  Ss  Se See
SS aS SS SSS ———— ——— 
eS SSS  Sx”
SS  SS See SS fs  Cey Se   EE Be Se Se  EE—C—SB’
SSeS SS SSS |! SS Se SeAQ Sa 
Se. Fe as At
  SeSe Se  SS See CSS
  Ss  SS SS eSa
 SS CC SS ess Ba SS Ss SS]  ——C—SS
se eaeEE Ss Ba Ss See SS Ss SES“ a
 S| SS SS] SS Se EAS ae
nF Pe sa Fa SovgES, Se a
 SS SS aS Bs ES Se Ee
—— SeOS See Fe Fe |,  ft —e So
  ge  SSeS  BSS! SS SS Se SS SS ——s
  SS  SA SS ee
SF Soe. BS SZ ek ZZ eae SB
SSS SSS Fe SSS SS SS FE Se  
—— ——— oe  —————CS —— SSS —— 
See FS SSS  SSS pe SS SS —
E  -£  e—  fF  ——s at” —— SS  
—r fe Se Sg BSA Se ye Ss  es 
ee SS Se ae ot Se. Sa BPCR
eS pe OeeS gs  ——  BS Sg  SS SS  PF ee
——— ——  —+—-— ————$— ss ———— ———F—  ——  ———- 
—  Bee: Sea  eS
  ae aS EM Sa eS oeSS SF SS A
 SS EO ——-  SS aa
Sg Ee SSS SESS Se SESS Eee ESE SB  S
  —— ——S— ——- SSO  ———— SSS S| SSeS SS SSS
E Se BS, ss Ss BEES  Se Sf
 Sa  A— —* PPS
S   —— ——— SSS  —————  ——f  —: ae
a Ss td Se    BES SS  aS)  
ee SS  se SS SS SS   Sa Se See Ee Se seSf ee
 SS SS SU SS SSS Se  SS Ss a
TAR nn oS NA
fi ae SS SS SS BSS DS EE SS Se )
 SS ES Ss YeSS See FS]
  ——— ae ——-  —-  —— 
SS SN SS SS) SF EE ee
 ———  —-- —— ——  Se  —— —x ——-

et SF ep r
LA ESSA Pe SE ARIES
AER RRA YE ERS
ESR TRIE fo
SN Ae SRE
See Ss Macnaees
Des} Weaees
A Re Tees a
ac PES SER ERS fhe PS
RUA. Mf ERECR ot eKE
RN fe oe Tyee

win


