  Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.
putting outa fire if one should occur, would suggest
that the city erect in all the school buildings suitable stand
pipes with hose attached, or furnish some of those portable fire extinguishers that are on the market, and are in
use by our fire department.

EXPENDITURES.

) Holyoke Furniture Co., 
George Grant,  
A. Tebedo,  
L. Cavanaugh Co.,..  
E. H. Friedrich,  
C. H. Baush Son,  
Holyoke Steam Gas Pipe Co.,  

' Sullivan, Carmody Wesely,  
F. D. Cordes Co.,  
J. Aubrey,  
Wm Corner,  
G. E. Russell Co., ..  
J. W. Jolly,  
M. J. Callahan,  
Casper Ranger,  
A. H. Ryan,  
John Riley,  
Geary Canill,  
Wm. R. Weaver,  
M. J. Griffin,  
George Nightingale,  
J. J.Callanan,  
M. J. L. Laporte,  

Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.  
John E. S. Kellogg,  
M. A. Allen Son,  
John Tilley Co.,  
Washburn Co.,  
A. E. Crosby,  
J.B. Hurley,  
American Sanitary Association,  
James Doyle Co.,  
C. J. Bresnahan, 
Wylie Hardware Co.,  
J. Russell Co.,  
J. J. Dowd,  
D. F. Coghlan, Estate,  
Fenton Dunn,  
T. J. Lynch,  
P. J. Swords,  
A. A. Jones,  
Baker, Cavanaugh Verrill,  
Doane Williams,  
F. F. O'Neill,  
Douglass Doyle,  
F.J Curley,  
J. Carpenter,  
Springfield Felting Co..  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
P. McKenna, ..  
Theo. St. Martin,  
Toomey Shea,  
G. W. Richards,  
Michael Connors,  
William Walsh,  

  Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.

J. Chagnon,  
M. H. Baker Co.  
EK. Dreikorn,   
Michael Sullivan,  
John FitzGerald,  
P. Hannafin, 
J. F. Knightly,  
T. F. Kegan, Estate,  
Thomas Killen,  
Rhodes Bros.,  
Thomas Connor,  
Watson Ely Son,  
Wm. Rogers,  
Louis Laroche,  
Wm. Cummings,  
Thorpe Bros.,  
Merrick Thread Co.,  
ID. W. Kenney,  
Democrat Publishing Co.,  
Transcript Publishing Co.,  
FitzGerald Co.,  
T. J. Dillon,  
John Gee, Estate, .@  
Griffith, Axtell Cady Co.,  
Anna C. Bartlett,  
Dennis Walsh,  
J. J. Curran,  
P. J. Griffin,  
T. J. Morrow,  
Holyoke Water Power Uo., 
Lemuel Sears Co., 

Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.  

T. J. Dean, 
James E. Russell,  
Frank L’ Esperance,  
Barnes Safe and Lock Co.,  
N. Y., N. H. Hartford R. R.,  
Wm. T. Walsh,  
Fuller Warren,  
Kennedy Sullivan \: 
To Pay Roll and other Departments,  
$ 

WARD THREE ENGINE HOUSE.
F. J. Curley, . 
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co.  
Thomas Connor, 
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
Democrat,  
Anna C. Bartlett,  
Transcript,  
$ 
. ELMWOOD ENGINE HOUSE.

Lynch Bros., 
C. P. Lyman,  
Kennedy Sullivan,  
Holyoke Water Works,  
C. H. Baush Son,  
Advertising,  
$ 

  Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.
NONQTUCK STREET SCHOOL.
L. T. Beaulieu, . 
Quinn Madden,  
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co.,  
Advertising,  
Helping Janitor clean up building,  
$  OO
REAL ESTATE.
Value of Sy. ft.of Landvalue. Total.
Buildings. Ground.

Kast Dwight St. School,  $&  
Lyman St. School,  
Park St. School,  
Hamilton St. School,  
Sargeant St. School,  
Reliance Engine House,  
Emerald Engine House,  
Chestnut St. School,  
City Hall,  
High School,  
Appleton St. School,  
Reliance Engine House,  
So. Chesnut St. School,  
Almshouse Farm,  a.  
West St. School,  
Dexter Hose,  
Hampden St. Engine House,  
Elmwood Engine ITouse,  
Elmwood School,  

Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.  
Nonotuck School,  
Pest House,  a.  
Ewingville School,  
West Holyoke,  
School House Lot, Northampton Street.  

$  

Report of the Inspector of Milk.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN: have the honor to submit herewith
the following report for the Department for the Inspection of Milk for the year  .

The principal duties of the inspector, as defined by the
statutes under which he acts, are the issuing of licenses,
the registration of stores where milk and oleomargarine
is sold, collection and inspection of samples and the
enforcement of the laws in the courts.

LICENSES GRANTED, ETC.
From December to May  
From May to December  
Total number for the year,  
Number of registrations, |
Fees received and paid to City Treasurer, 

The total consumption is about quarts daily and
the prevailing price six cents. Analysis is made to determine the milk solids, the amount of solids not fat and
the amount of fat. This is usually sufficient to indicate

Report of the Inspector of Milk.  
if it be pure milk of the standard required by law, viz.,
  per cent. of milk solids and per cent. of solids
exclusive of fat.

Inspection of milk lessens the tendency to its adulteration and increases the nutritive value of the milk supply.
During the year there were registered at this office the
names of five dealers in oleomargarine for which have
paid into the City Treasury, .
Respectfully submitted,
MARTIN L. GRIFFIN.

Report of the Inspector of Petroleum.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke:

. GENTLEMEN: have the honor to submit herewith
my seventh annual report as Inspector of Petroleum.
During the year just ended, have inspected barrels of kerosene oil which has been used for fuel and
illuminating purposes.

I find the

Average flash test to be, deg. F.
Average fire test, deg. F.
Lowest flash test, deg. F.
Lowest fire test, deg. F.
Highest flash test, deg. F.
Highest fire test, deg. F.

None of the oil inspected has fallen below the standard which the statute laws require. The quality of the
oil sold by the dealers in thiscity, for fuel and illumination is such that with judicious use and proper manipulation, accidents should rarely if ever occur.

Respectfully submitted,
MARTIN L. GRIFFIN.

Report of the Inspector of Vinegar.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Board of Alder
men of the City of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN: have the honor to submit herewith,
the following annual report for the Inspection of Vinegar for the year ending December 

The same course has been pursued as heretofore, in
my method of collecting and examining samples of vinegar, and the inspections show that dealers have taken
pains to receive none but good lots.

It is not believed that the adulteration of vinegar is
practiced to any great extent by the retailer, and where
it has been found not of proper quality in their posses
sion, they have not been morally guilty.

No complaints have been entered, as any vinegar of
unusual inferiority has not been found.

Respectfully submitted,
MARTIN Il. GRIFFIN.
e

Report of Board of Health.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and City Council of the
Cily of Holyoke:

The Board of Health respectfully submits the following as its report for the year ending, November ,

The membership of the Board has been changed during the year, only in the appointment of Dr. J. C. E.
Godin to sucd Dr. G@ H. Smith, whose term expired
February  Organization was effected by the choice
of Mr. Sullivan as chairman, Dr. Donoghue as secretary and Mr. Bateson as agent of the Board.

The work of the Board during the yearin regard to the
removal of ashes and house offal has been, on the whole,
satisfactory, but the steady growth of the city has been
felt in the greater effort required to perform the work by
reason of no increase in the alley force. This force consists now of six single teams, with three drivers, and six
men The teams are furnished at the extremely low rate
of  per day, for six teams and three drivers—a rate
we believe, it  unlikely we can obtain again, in spite of
the competition in bids—and the team service has been
at the same time excellent.

The force must during the coming year considerably
add to its labor by caring for the Lyman Mill tenements

&

Report of Board of Health.  
in accordance with pledges made by the Board to encourage sanitary improvements.

This work together with the general increase of tenements and residences needing attention will demand an
increase in the force the coming year of at least two
teams and drivers, with two men,and this besides the
temporary doubling of the force for few weeks in the
spring, to speedily remove the winter’s accumulation of
debris.

The collection of house offal has been done by John
Donoghue as during the previous year, but since May  ,
at only  per month, while previous to that date the
contract was for  per month. This work has been
done as satisfactorily as could be expected under the circumstances. This work will hereafter need two teams,
in the warmer season at least, for its proper performance.

After about two years immunity, case of small-pox
appeared in our midst in April. Though occurring ina
family of thirteen persons, and in large eight-tenement
building, the speedy removal of the patient, and thorough’
vaccination of all exposed fortunately limited the outbreak to asingle case The patient, woman of twentytwo years of age, was employed in paper-mill rag room,
and though vaccinated in youth had the disease ina
very severe form, but made good recovery.

In this connection should be mentioned the need of a
careful inspection of the heating apparatus at the smallpox hospital, inasmuch as long time has elapsed since
it has been put toa proper test.

In our last report the great need of general vaccination of the city was urged and the appearance of the

  Report of Board of Health.
dread disease during the year, but emphasizes that recommendation.

We urge now that special appropriation for this purpose be early made—for an outbreak of the disease
would demand precipitate work in this direction, and
then perhaps after the loss of several valuable lives.

Quite large number of our city, especially children,
we believe, are wholly unprotected by vaccination.

Scarlet fever and diphtheria have prevailed to some extent throughout the year, but with only ordinary fatality.
Typhoid fever has appeared to about the same extent as
for three or four years past. The State Board of Health
has made aclose study of the causes possible for the
prevalence of this disease here. While no definite
results have yet been reached by the Board, the use of
canal water in factories for drinking purposes is believed
to have been somewhat factor. On the suggestion of
the State Board, the water was interdicted by our Board
by placing labels and notices of warning in all shops and
mills.

The necessity of sanitary inspection has been adverted
to in our previous reports and again we urge that enough
money be appropriated for this department to enable us
toemploy reliable man for this most necessary work
during the greater part of the year.

Some system must soon be adopted whereby the grading and paving of our alleys, especially in business
streets, can gradually be accomplished. For, as at
present it is next to impossible to keep many of them ina
sunitary condition for more than one day in week.

The number of death certificates approved and burial

Report of Board of Health.  
permits issued for the year was of which were for
still-births.

The annual death rate was somewhat less than per
 —excluding  still-births—as against in and
  in  .

DEATHS BY MONTHS. .

Months. Deaths. Still-Births. Total.
December, 
January, 
February, 
March, 
April, 
May, 
June, 
July,  
August, 
September, 
October, 
November, 

 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand December  
Appropriation,  
Transfers,  
———--— 

  Report of Board of Health.
EXPENDITURES.
Labor onalleys, .  |
Swill gathering,  
Expense for Small-pox,  
Contingent expenses, 
Balance on hand December 
The expense incident to small-pox is returnable to the
city from the State, as the patient had no settlement here,
but this amount will probably, as heretofore, be credited
elsewhere than to our account.
REPORT OF AGENT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Privy vaults ordered cleaned,  
Privy vaults ordered repaired,  
Privy vaults ordered discontinued,  
Pigs ordered removed,  
Manure heaps ordered removed,  
Barn cellars ordered cleaned,  
Water closets ordered put in,  
Dead goats and dogs ordered buried,  
Alleyway obstructions ordered removed,  
Sinks and drains ordered repaired,  
In order to increase the alley force as deemed, it will
be necessary, and to provide for the other recommenda.
tions suggested, we believe this department will need a
sum not less than  to meet its expenses for the
general work during the coming year.

Report of Board of Health.  
We respectfully advise also special appropriation of
$  for the purpose of general vaccination—a work
not attempted to any extent for over six years.
Respectfully submitted,
TIMOTHY SULLIVAN,
JOSEPH C. E. GODIN, M. D.,
D. F. DONOGHUE, M. D. :
Board of Health.

Report of the City Physician.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and City Council of
Holyoke:

The following is respectfully submitted as the report of
the City Physician, for the year ending November  ,
 :

During the past year there has been no great prevalence
of any of the infectious diseases, although to some extent nearly all have appeared in our midst.

In April, case of small-pox appeared, but though
occurring in very large family, and in large tenement
block, no other case developed in spite of the exposure
of great many persons. The disease, too, was undoubted)y contracted in rag-room where many others
were exposed. We can attribute our good fortune in |
escaping an extended outbreak of this dread disease,
only to our prompt measures of vaccination at the appearance of the disease and to our extended efforts in
this direction in the past. trust the urgent need of a
general vaccination of the city will be early provided for
by the incoming city government.

Report of the City Physician.  

In this connection would desire to utter protest
against that custom of State authorities which makes a
pauper of the unfortunate victim of small-pox, unless
he be passing rich.

It seems to methe misfortune of having small-pox
should not make one pauper simply because the State
or city, to protect itself against contagion, goes to extraordinary expense, while if treated at home as ordinary sickness the unfortunate victim would beamply able
to pay all expense himself.

Scarlet fever and diphtheria have prevailed through- .
out the year—but the fatalities have not been many.
The type of these diseases has been generally mild and
at no time has great number been afflicted. ,

Measles appeared to limited extent in the early part
of the year and whooping-cough was almost unknown
throughout the year.

Typhoid fever prevailed to about the same extent as
for the past four years) Why our city, like several
other manufacturing cities of the State, furnishes so fertile
a ground for this disease is question the State Board of
Health is industriously working at, but as yet has not
solved.

The work of the City Physician among the city’s
poor, has been little less in amount than the preceding year, but has not varied in character to any extent.

Months. Visits. Cost of Medicine.
December,  
January, 
February,  
March,   

  Report of the City Physician.
April,  
May,   
June,  ..  
July,   
August, 
September,  
October, 
November, 
Total, 
During the year have furnished in accordance with
the law, after proper investigation, certificates of death
in seventeen cases where no physician was in attendance.
Vaccination has been done for all school children who
made application—the number during the year having
been  Certificates of vaccination were furnished to
school children and mill operatives to the number of \
about  |
I have examined twenty-six applicants for police service under the civil service law and filed the necessary |
papers. |
During the year burial permits were furnished
undertakers and others for deaths occurring in this city
and about twenty permits were issued for disinterment
and reburial.
Among the city’s patients only seventeen deaths occurred as against twenty-five the preceding year. Of
these sixteen were adults three men and thirteen
women—and one wasachild. The causes of death were
as follows:
Consumption,  
|

Report of the City Physician.  
Senile debility,  
Meningitis,  
Chronic bronchitis,  
Cholera morbus,.  
Disease of liver,  
Cerebritis,  

Puerpural Septicaemia, }

Total,  

The attendance at the Almshouse, which is included in
the regular summary of visits, has not been very great
in amount, because, so far, there has been very little
sickness there of any acute or continued type. Only
one death occurred there from the opening of the institution till the close of the year which this report covers—
and that one patient years old, who had suffered for
years with chronic disease

The question of city nospital seems to many minds
nearly solved by an institution promised in the near
future.

But, as the promoters of the coming institution, styled
‘*city hospital,’’ have sought no co-operation of the city
through its government, have confined the solicitation of
funds to particular portion of our citizens, and have in
selecting the board of trustees carefully guarded against
the representation, in the least degree, of certain ele.
ment constituting at least three-fourths of our population,
Tam indeed doubtful as to its position and what relief it
is to bring to the city’s poor.

Respectfully submitted,
D. F. DONOGHUE.
City Physician.

Report of Chief of Police.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Alder.
men of the City of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN :—I have the honor to submit for your consideration my report of the doings and condition of the

Police department for the municipal year ending Nov.

  .

NUMBER OF ARRESTS. |

W hole number,  

Males,  
Females,  
——  
PLACE OF BIRTH.

America,  
Ireland,  
England,  

Germany,  
Scotland, |

Italy,  

Canada,  

Report of Chief of Police.  

Poland,  
Turkey,  
Total,  

NUMBER OF ARRESTS EACH MONTH.
December,  ..  
January,  -.  
February, ‘‘  
March, “s  
April, “e  
May, “e  
June,   
July,  
August, co,  oe  
September,  
October,   
November,  
Total,  
CAUSES OF ARREST.

Assault,  
Arson,  
Adultery,  
Attempt at larceny from the person,  
Attempt to break and enter,  
Attempt to commit rape,  
Attempt to murder,  
Breaking and entering,  
Bastardy,  

  Report of Chief of Police.

Being present at cock fighting,  
Cruelty to animals,  
Carrying concealed weapons,  
Common drunkard,  
Committing nuisance,  
Disturbing the peace,  
Drunkenness,  
Embezzlement,  
Fornication,  
Intimidation,  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Keeping house of ill fame,  
Impersonating an officer,  
Larceny from building,  
Larceny,  
Malicious mischief,  
Murder,  
Non-support,  
Neglected children,  
Neglect of family,  
Robbery,  
Receiving stolen goods,  
Setting bonfire,  
Stubbornness, ot  
Selling mortgaged property,  
Selling adulterated food,  
Threatening,  
Trespass, |
Truancy,  
Unlawfully taking team,  
Unlawfully removing baggage,  

Report of Chief of Police.  
Violation liquor law,  
Vagrancy,  
Violation of city ordinance,  
Walking on railroad track,  
Total,  
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Committed for non-payment,  
Fined and paid,  
Discharged,  
Bound over to the Superior Court,  
Appealed,  
Sentenced to House of Correction,  
Sentenced to Massachusetts Reformatory,  
Sentenced to Woman’s Prison,  
Sentenced to Lyman School,  
Ordered to furnish bonds for sureties of the peace,  
Committed to State Board of Lunacy and Charity,  
Fined and sentenced,  
Committed to Truant School,  
Released on probation,  
Settled by marriage,  
Released,  
Total,  
Number of tramps lodged,  .
FINANCIAL REPORT. |
Appropriation, 
Transfer,  

  Report of Chief of Police.
Rec’d from A. A. Tyler, 
“ T. J. Tierney,  
“  Simon Brooks,  
“ Hampden County,  
“ Patrick Herbert,  
———— 
Pay roll,  
Miscellaneous expenses,  
———— 
Balance, 

The Department consists of one Chief, one Captain,
one Lieutenant and thirty-three Patrolmen. Of this
number one has been detained for special duty, one in the
office days, and one in the office nights. The remainder
being divided and stationed as follows: Seven on the
streets days, four on the dog-watch, leaving nineteen
( men for regular night duty.

The morale of the force, its physical condition and
efficiency will compare favorably with any other like
organization in the State.

A prompt and cheerful obedience to orders and regulations prevails. Most of the arrests and prosecutions
have been for minor offences. The peace and good order
of the city has been generally maintained. No serious
disturbances or outbreaks have occurred.

Notwithstanding the many obstacles placed in the way |
of the police, an honest effort has been made to enforce
the laws and bring offenders to justice.

Much sickness has prevailed in the department during
the year, resulting in the death of two officers and the

Report of Chief of Police.  
total disability of another. Officer Bartlett, an able and
efficient officer, who has been member of this department for several years, died after long and painful
illness. Officer Crowley, one of the oldest and best
known men on the force, died after short illness
attended with intense pain and suffering. He was an
intelligent and efficient officer, brave and fearless.

I see by reference to the reports of my predecessor
that he has recommended the adoption of the police signal system.

I find that it is in use in several cities in the State, and
they all speak in the highest terms of the practical benefits derived from its use. would respectfully recommend that you give this matter careful consideration. I
think upon investigation you will find the system, together with the patrol wagon, of the same relative importance to the Police department, that the fire alarm
system is to the Fire department.

In compliance with statute law, the Mayor appointed police matron, which appointment was confirmed by the Board of Aldermen last March, but no office or room has been provided for her use.

The appointment has given universal satisfaction both
to the department and the unfortunate women whom
she is called upon to care for. Her duties often compel
her to remain at the station late at night, with no other
accommodations except those afforded by the woman’s
lockup. Imost respectfully recommend that suitable
room be provided for her use.

In conclusion, desire to express to his honor, the

' Report of Chief of Police.
Mayor, and to the Justice, and Clerk of the Police court,
my full appreciation of the courtesy and assistance they
have accorded me in my official capacity.
S. T. MILLER,
Chief of Police.

Report of City Solicitor.
To the Honorable, the Mayor and City Council of the
City of Holyoke :

The current year has been more productive of active
work for this department than any year of its existence.
When by your kindness the duties of City Solicitor
devolved upon me, four actions of tort, description of
which is hereinafter given, had been brought against the
city. Since then the city has been made defendant in
fourteen actions of tort and three actions of contract, and
respondent to petition for jury to assess land damages.
A description of these latter cases is also hereinafter
given.

In pursuance of vote of the City Council, the Mayor
and appeared before the Legislative committee on
roads and bridges, in opposition to petition for change
of location of the proposed bridge across the Connecticut River between this city and Willimansett. The
petitioners were given leave to withdraw and the Legislature enacted Chapter of the Acts of  by which
the County Commissioners are required to construct a
bridge at the location originally determined upon.

In pursuance of vote of the City Council, whereby
the Mayorand were directed to petition the Legislature

  Report of City Solicitor.
for repeal of that portion of Chapter of the Acts of
 which limits the number of liquor licenses to be
granted to one for each thousand of the population, we
appeared before the committee on liquor lawin behalf of
the proposed legislation. The petitioners were given
leave to withdraw.

Also by direction of the City Council, appeared
before the Legislative committee on cities, in advocacy of
legislation by which the voters of that portion of Ward |
seven known as “Springdale,’’ should vote in Ward |
three at municipal elections, and before the same committee, praying for authority to exd the limit of |
municipal indebtedness, for the purpose of paying the |
city’s share of the cost of the bridge across the Con- |
necticut River between this city and South Hadley Falls ;
preparing bills for both measures which were enacted
into Chapter and  respectively, of the Acts of
 .

The commissioners appointed by the Supreme Court to
determine and award the proportional part of the cost of
the Holyoke and South Hadley Falls bridge to be borne
by the counties of Hampden and Hampshire, respectively, and the cities and towns especially benefited by |
the bridge, gavea hearing to the interested parties, May
  and last. The total cost of the structure
was found to be The city’s share of said cost
was fixed at As this amount is several thousand
dollars below the figure estimated by our most conservative citizens think the city may be well satisfied with the
action of the commission.

It has been my policy to contest the demands of the

Report of City Solicitor.  
plaintiffs in tort cases. The effect has been good; for in
no instance has the trial of cause, whether such trial
was made necessary by my refusal to make settlement or
by the plaintiff's refusal to accept my offer in settlement,
resulted disadvantageously to the city. It may be said,
also, that in cases in which the city was clearly liable,
just settlements have been secured, largely by reason of the
plaintiffs’ knowledge of the city’s purpose to oppose
unreasonable demands. It is hoped that in future
claimants for damages before bringing action will give
the subject greater deliberation than they have been
accustomed to give.

Following is list of the cases against the city, witha
brief description of each case, pending at the time of my
assumption of my duties and brought during the current
year:

John G. Brooks vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated August  ,
 and returnable the first Monday of October,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on
a defective sidewalk on the northerly side of Lyman
street, near Union street, July The defect was
caused by the breaking away of the concrete surface of
the walk and the insecure filling of the depression left
thereby. Trial at the June sitting of the Superior Court. )
Verdict for the plaintiff, .

Otis Kellogg vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated December
  and returnable the first Monday of February,
 Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by
being thrown from carriage near the junction of Lyman
street with the street leading past the mill of the Whiting
Paper Company, November The defect, as

  Report of City Solicitor.

described in the notice to the city, was portable boiler
and engine, stationed on Lyman street and used in the
construction of an addition to the Lyman Mills buildings,
from which engine it was said the horse driven by the
plaintiff took fright. Geo. L. Bosworth, owner of the
engine, and the Lyman Mills were summoned in to defend, neither appearing. But at the trial plaintiff produced evidence tending to show that the alleged defect
was deep hole in the cross walk on Lyman street.
Verdict for the plaintiff, .

Mattie B. Kellogg vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated and returnable on same days as in above cause. Action for
injuries received by the plaintiff, at same place and time,
and from same cause as in above cause. Trial. Verdict
for the plaintiff, .

In both these cases several exceptions were saved by
the city, and at the return of the verdicts motion fora ]
new trial was filed in each case, on the ground that the
verdict was against the evidence and the weight of
evidence.

Margaret Houghtaling vs. Holyoke. —Writ dated Dec.
  and returnable the first Monday of February,
 Action for injuries received by the plaintiff
by falling on defective sidewalk on the easterly side of
West street, between Ely street and Mosher street, Oct.
  The defect was grade stake, which projected
above the surface of the walk. Patrick T. O’ Reilly,
Bishop of Springfield, Thomas D. Beaven, pastor of the
Church of our Lady of the Holy Rosary were summoned
in to defend the action, none appearing. At the trial,
the liability of the city having been established, upon

Report of City Solicitor.  
the advice of the city’s medical experts, who stated that
the plaintiff's injuries were serious and permanent, the
case was settled for .

John Kane vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated January  ,
 and returnable the first Monday of April,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by being
struck by falling tree at Mt. Tom while the plaintiff was
in the employ of the city, Dec Case pending.

Lizzie Shepherd vs. Holyoke —Writ dated January  ,
 and returnable the first Monday of March,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling
on defective sidewalk on the easterly side of Main street
near Cabot street, December The defect was
an accumulation of ice and snow on the sidewalk. Trial at
the Oct. sitting of the Superior Court. The jury disagreed.

Philip Ryan vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated January  ,
 and returnable the first Monday of March,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on a
defective sidewalk on the easterly side of Chestnut street,
between Lyman street and Fountain street, December
  The defect was an accumulation of ice and
snow. Settled for .

Margaret O’Connor vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated February  and returnable the first Monday of April,
 Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by
falling on defective sidewalk on the easterly side of
High street, between Franklin street and Sargeant street,
December The defect was an accumulation
of ice and snow. Case pending.

Norah @. Storey vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated February and returnable the first Monday of

  Report of City Solicitor.

April,  Action for injuries received by
the plaintiff by falling on defective sidewalk
on the westerly side of High street, opposite the building numbered  December The defect was
an accumulation of iceand snow. Trial. Verdict for the
city.

Mary O’Donnell vs. Holyoke.— Writ dated February
  and returnable the first Monday of Aprll,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on
a defective sidewalk on the southerly side of Dwight

. street, at Pine street, January The defect was
an accumulation of ice and snow. Settled for .

David E. Day vs. Holyoke.—Writ February ,
and returnable the first Monday of April,  Action
for injuries received by the plaintiff's horse and sleigh
by being overturned by an embankment of snow on
High street, near Cabot street. The case was settled for
 The embankment of snow was caused in part by
the Holyoke Street Railway Company’s snow-plows. [
notified the company and the matter was compromised
by the company paying the city the sum of .

Sadie Edwards vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated March  ,
 and returnable the first Monday of May,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on
a defective sidewalk on the southerly side of Dwight
street, opposite the Ewing estate, February .
The defect was an accumulation of ice and snow. Settled
for .

Mary Connors vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated March  ,
 and returnable the first Monday of May,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on

i

Report of City Solicitor.  
a defective sidewalk on the southerly side of Dwight
street, opposite the City Hall, February The
defect was an accumulation of ice andsnow. Settled for
$ .

Margaret Lyons vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated June  ,
 and returnable the first Monday of August,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on
a defective sidewalk on the southerly side of Lyman
street, opposite the building numbered  February  ,
 The defect was an accumulation of ice and snow.
Settled for |

Kate Sullivan vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated March  ,
and returnable the first Monday of May,  Action
for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on defective sidewalk on the northerly side of Dwight street,
opposite the building numbered  March The

defect was an accumulation of ice and snow. Trial at
the October sitting of the Superior Court. Jury disagread.

Mulvina Lamerauda vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated May
  and returnable the first Monday of July,  .
Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by falling on
a defective sidewalk on the westerly side of Main street,
opposite the building numbered  March .
The defect was hole in the sidewalk caused by the removal of part of the brick surface of the walk. Settled
for The rights of the city, if any, against Theophilus St. Martin, the contractor who at the time of the
accident was constructing building at this point, were
saved by summoning him in to defend the action.

Ellen Shinkwin vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated July  ,

  Report of City Solicitor.

 and returnable the first Monday of September,

 Action for injuries received by the plaintiff by

being thrown from carriage, by reason of defect in

the highway leading from West Springfield to this city,

ata point about three hundred yards north of the point

where the old ferry road crosses said highway, May  ,

 The defect is alleged to be deep, abrupt and

dangerous gutter on the westerly side of said highway. Case pending.

Joseph Rivers, alias Lariverive, vs Holyoke.—Writ |
dated October and returnable the first Monday |
of December,  Action for injuries received by the
plaintiff by falling through an open catch-basin at the
intersection of the southerly side of Prospect street with
the easterly side of Union street, August Case |
pending.

‘George A. Marden, Treasurer, vs Holyoke.—Writ \
dated February and returnable the first Monday |
of April,  Action of contract to receive for money
paid for the support of Charles Chalmers, at the lunatic
asylum in Northampton. Plaintiff declares that Chalmers has legal settlement in this city. Case pending.

L. Treffele Beaulieau vs. Holyoke.—Writ dated November and returnable the first Monday of January,  Action of contract to recover for work performed on the Nonotuck street schoolhouse the current
year. Case pending.

Inhabitants of North Adams vs. Holyoke.—Writ
dated October and returnable at the Superior
Court within and for the County of Berkshire the first

|

Report of City Solicitor.  
Monday of December. Action of contract. Cause not
ascertained.

John E. Clark is petitioner for jury to assess damages to land, caused by the cutting down or lowering
the grade of Brooks avenue.

The claims submitted to your committee on claims
were within your own observation and do not require
mention here.

John J. Prew, summoned in by my predecessor to defend the action of Lizzie Weidhaas vs. Holyoke, in pursuance of an agreement with my predecessor, had judgment entered against himself at the March sitting of the
Superior Court in the sum of The judgment was
satisfied.

John Glavin was paid without suit, for injuries
received by falling on an icy sidewalk on the northerly
side of Lyman street near High street.

Notices were given of injuries received by H. D. Phelon, in his property and person by reason of horse
driven by him taking fright at portable boiler and engine at the point on Lyman street described in the description of the Kellogg cases, December by Doyle
Goddu, in his person and property, by being thrown
from wagon on Dwight street at the first level canal
bridge, December by Val Moquin, in his property, by reason of being overturned, while driving, by an
embankment of snow at the corner of Appleton and
Pine streets, January and by Patrick J. Griffin,
in his property, by reason of being overturned, while
driving, by an embankment of snow on the northerly
side of Dwight street, between High street and Front

  Report of City Solicitor.
street, January The last named claim was
settled by the Holyoke Street Railway Company.
The ‘‘ice and snow”’ cases in the foregoing list suggest consideration of their causes and some means of
removing these causes. While it is true that much of
the litigation of this Kind during was largely
due to the severity and sudden climatic changes of the
winter season, itis equally true that some of it might
have been avoided by precaution.- prompt and
impartial enforcement of Section of ‘‘ An Ordinance
in Relation to Streets and the Prevention of
Abuses Therein,’’ which section relates to the removal of
ice and snow from sidewalks, would remove the cause
and consequently, the effect. To this end, would
respectfully urge that you require the police department
to enforce rigidly this section. When the large amount
annually paid to claimants as compensation for injuries
received on account of icy sidewalks is considered, the
importance of this suggestion becomes apparent.
I believe also that concerted co-operation of the
police and highway departments would do much to avert
accidents on account of other defects in the streets and
sidewalks. would therefore recommend that it be
made duty of the patrolmen to be particularly watchful of the streets and sidewalks on their respective beats, :
and, upon discovery of defect, to report the same immediately at the police station, whence notice of the
place and nature of the defect should be transmitted at
once to the superintendent of streets. Viewed from this
department, there can be no question of the economy of
the policy of maintaining the safe condition and thorReport of City Solicitor.  
ough repair of streets and sidewalks already constructed
before making new departures, and the superintendent
of streets should have sufficient funds at his disposal
and full authority to make necessary repairs without
delay.

My experience with the Lyman Mills corporation,
which summoned in to defend the suits of Otis Kellogg
and Mattie B. Kellogg, previously mentioned, prompts
me to suggest the advisability of requiring corporations
and individuals who petition for leave, while building, to .
obstruct the highways with dangerous implements of construction, or other menaces to safe travel, to enter into
a contract with the city, by which the city will be
assured immunity from loss or damage occasioned in any
way by such obstruction.

Finally, [commend to your favorable consideration
the suggestions given in his inaugural address by his
Honor, relative to the revision of existing ordinances and
the reference to the City Solicitor of future ordinances
for examination, before final action. In closing desire
to express my hearty thanks to the several departments
in general, and to those in charge of the City Engineer
and Superintendent of Streetsin particular, for the ready
and substantial assistance rendered mein the performance of my duties.

Respectfully submitted,
C. T. CALLAHAN,
City Solicitor.

Report of Park Commissioners.
To the Honorable Mayor and Aldermen, and Common
Council of the City of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN :—The appropriation for this department
for the year was The expenditures for the
same year amounted to There has been no :
extraordinary expenses during the year, and the parks ,
are generally in good condition excepting Prospect Park,
the steep bank on the northerly side of this park needing frequent repairs.

A great need of the city of Holyoke is public city
park commensurate in size with the size and growth of the
city. The purchase of the tract of fifty acres, more or
less, which has often been recommended by the Park
Commissioners, would be but an act of justice to the
people of Holyoke, and especially to the industrious
workingmen of the city and their families statute law
forbids trespass on lands owned by others and these laws
envirdn those who do not own land to house walls and
street lines. The city should provide roomy park as
near tothe center of the city as such plot of land cap
be found, which should be made pleasant and agreeable place for all; without fear of the law against tresspass. Such tract, in location unsurpassed for beauty
of outlook, for pleasing diversity of surface, and, greatest
of all, in accessibility, lies within two miles of the City
Wall. This tract is unencumbered by buildings and can
be obtained at low price. The Park Commission
again recommends its purchase and suggests early action,
In  on the recommendation.

Respectfully submitted,
| WM.  LOOMIS.
THOMAS J. GIBSON.
W. T. DEAN.

Report of Chief Engineer.
/
HEADQUARTERS Fire DEPARTMENT.
DECEMBER .
To the Honorable Mayor and City Council of the City
of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN: With feelings of pleasure herewith
submit my seventh annual report of the department under my charge, it embracing the twelve months ending
Dec. The cost of maintaining the department,
a list of all fires and alarms occurring, the probable cause
of the same, with the losses and insurance as nearly as it
has been possible to ascertain list of the members be| longing to the department, with their age, residence and
time appointed and other items of interest, and few
recommendations which deem worthy of your attention,
will be found annexed.

The apparatus of the department is in good condition,
with the exception of the Relief steamer; and consists
of five steam fire engines, two hook and ladder trucks
and one aerial ladder, six one-horse wagons, one hose
reel and Chief’s wagon.

The experience of those conversant with fire matters
proves that, owing to the peculiar nature of the work

  Report of Chief Engineer.

required, department horses will depreciate in value at

least twenty-five percent. annually. Much attention has

been given to this essential branch of the department,

and the purchase of pair of horses for Relief steamer,

and horse for Mt. Holyoke hose wagon, places the

several teams in first-class condition.
The department now owns horses—  in service and

one in reserve. In view of the fact that the city is, under present arrangement, paying large amount for

extra horse service for use on the reserve steamer, the

Elmwood steamer, and hook and ladder truck No.  I

would respectfully submit plan which think would

add materially to the efficiency of the department, and at

the same time be direct saving to the city: Would it

not be well for the city to purchase three pairs of horses

for use on the sprinkling carts, and for other city work

in other seasons, and utilize these horses in responding

to alarms on the apparatus previously mentioned? These |

horses and also their drivers, could be housed at the

different engine houses, where they would be ready at

all hours of the night to immediately respond to alarms

of fire, and from the nature of their work in the day

time, could be more easily reached than under the !

present arrangement, The expense of this plan would

be no greater than at present, and this department would |

be vast gainer thereby. |
The fire alarm telegraphic system continues in excellent condition and never fails to herald its unwelcome |

summons. There are at present fourcircuits and sixcircuit repeater. ‘Superintendent Castle strongly recom- |

mends that the No. circuit be divided into two circuits, |

Report of Chief Engineer.  
as it now covers too much territory. The expense
would be slight and heartily agree with the superintendent. Mr. Castle also is of the opinion that copper
wire should hereafter be used in place of iron wire as at
present, and that lines now up as fast as they need to be
replaced be replaced with copper wire. Thelatter would
last for lifetime, and the extra cost would be offset by
a considerable saving in the costof batteries The alarm
has, in majority of the fires, been promptly given, and
to this fact is due ina large measure the small number of
disastrous fires that have occurred during the year.
There appears, however, at times to be great desire on
the part of some of our citizens to attempt to extinguish fire without soundinganalarm. While the desire
to prevent the destruction of property is at all times to
be commended, yet the practice referred to is attended
with too great risks, and should never be pursued unless
itis found impossible to give the department notice. I
do not wish to be considered captious regarding this
matter, yet cannot refrain from impressing upon all the

importance of notifying the department promptly whenever indications of tire exist, in order that means for the
effectual extinguishment of the same may be promptly
dispatched. '

Several improvements in the department are very
much needed during the coming year, the most important of which is the purchase of new steam fire engine
to take the place of the present Relief steamer. This
steamer has been in continuous service for twenty-one
‘years and is liable to collapse at any time. new one
should be purchased at the earliest opportunity.

  Report of Chief Engineer.

I would recommend that  -inch gongs and indicators
combined be placed in each engine house, in place of the
present ‘‘jinglers,’’ to enable us to call one or more
companies at will, which we cannot now do.

The various hose wagons are too heavy to be expeditiously drawn by one horse and would earnestly recom mend that two horses be supplied for each wagon.

I would also recommend that the proper authorities
place fire alarm box on all school buildings as think
it absolutely necessary that such buildings be provided
with means of communication with our fire. alarm
system whereby the fire department can be promptly
summoned.

Extension bells to all telephones should be placed in
all the sleeping rooms in the various houses, that the
men may hear telephone calJs during the night season.

The department is, in my opinion, greatly in need of
a few permanent men, as each apparatus should be supplied with sufficient number to operate it rapidly and
efficiently in case of fire. It is not sufficient that the
present call force responds promptly to alarms; for
although such rapid response adds generally to the
opportunity for performing effective work, yet it is still
more essential that the force should be large enough to
continue this effectiveness when the scene of the fire is
reached, and in order to do this sufficient number of
permanent men are needed, and would strongly urge
the placing of one or more permanent men in each company.

I would also recommend that the engineer of the
Reliance steamer be made permanent as think it would
greatly add to the efficiency of the service.

' Report of Chief Engineer.  

The new engine houses in Ward three and at Elmwood
are nearly completed, and area much desired addition
to the department.

The only disastrous fire of the year occurred April  ,
when at three o’clock in the afternoon, an alarm from
Box called us to fire which was freely burning
among the huge wood piles near the saw mill. The fire
had gained great headway when the department was
summoned and general alarm was at once sounded. A
strong wind was blowing at the time and many of the
wooden houses—which are thickly clustered in this vicinity—caught from the sparks, and but for the herculean
efforts of the firemen, who labored with might and main
during the entire night, much greater damage would
have been done. In all thirty-six houses were more or
less damaged, and piles of wood feet long, feet
high and feet wide were consumed.

The officers and men of the department are entitled to
much praise for their labors on this occasion. ,

The total damage to property endangered by fire durinn the past year was  on which an insurance
of  was paid; making an actual loss of but
$  or an average of  per each of the eightyfive fires and alarms during the year.

The expenses of the department for the year have been
as follows: Repairs and contingent Salaries,
$ Pay of members Water .
Hose making total of .

It is my good fortune to be able to report at this time
that no accident ofa fatal nature has befallen any of the
members during the year just closed, and while this isa

  Report of Chief Engineer.

matter for sincere congratulation, yet it should not in
any manner lead to the conclusion that the members are not subject to the liability of serious and even
fatal accidents. These must be expected at any time
and no higher encomium can be paid to the members
of the force than the simple statement that in view of a
knowledge of these dangers they have on no occasion
evinced any desire other than the one of discharging their :
duties cheerfully and willingly, and have never delayed
their work in order to measure the dangers which they
have been called upon to face, but have, atall times,
vied with each other in seeing that the work was quickly
aud skillfully executed.

I desire to return my thanks to the assistant engineers
for their unselfish support and for the efficient aid
they have rendered on all occasions to the officers and
men composing the different companies who have always
striven to keep the efficiency of the department at its
present high standard, and for the uniform courtesy they
have always shown, as well as their alacrity in responding to alarms and their fidelity to the cause they are engaged in. They stood shoulder to shoulder in time past,
and may they continue so to do.

To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Committee on Fire
Department, am profoundly grateful for their many
acts of courtesy, and an ever prevalent desire to further
the best interest of this department, seems to have
actuated them upon all occasions.

To Chief A. P. Leshure and the Springfield department, my thanks, as well as those of all our citizens, are
due for their valuable assistance so cheerfully rendered

Report of Chief Engineer.  
on the occasion of the wood-pile fire, April  and while
we would return the favor in like manner, should it be
required of us, we trust it may never be needed.

Chief of Police Miller, Captain Herbert, Lieut. Haley
and the entire police force have labored hand in hand
with this department, and tender them my sincere
thanks, and trust the same friendly and helpful spirit
will ever prevail.

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN T. LYNCH,
Chief Engineer.

  Report of Chief Engineer.
REPAIRS AND CONTINGENT BILLS.
DECEMBER,  .

Casper Ranger,  
L. Cavanaugh Co.  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works,  
F. A. Shelley,  
W. H. Mayberry,  
J.T. Hunter,  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
Estate T. F. Kegan,  
Richard Shea,  
Fenton Dunn,  
Potter Bros.  
W. H. Gay Co.,  
Prentiss, Brooks Co,  
M. Callahan,  
Transcript Publishing Co.,  
John H. Clay,  
W. HH. Abbott,  
D. J. Harris,  U
$ 

JANUARY,  .

Wm. B. Whiting, 

John B. Aubry, |
G. E. Russell Co...  
Howes Bros.,  
Curran Bros.,  
Hubbard Taber,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  

|

Report of Chief Engineer.  

J. R. Ball, 
Mrs. Marston,  
Mrs. William Sullivan,  
L. C. Tabreque,  
F. E. Buckley,  
J. T. Lynch,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
$ 

FEBRUARY,  .

S. Worthington Paper Co.,  
M. Callahan,  
City Mills,  
Prentiss, Brooks Co.,  
G. E. Russell,  
New England Telephone Co.,  
J. H. Carpenter,  
Geo. Walker,  
Fenton Dunn,  
J. A. Cleveland,  
Richard Shea,  
Mrs. Marston,  
Mrs. William Sullivan,  
F. E. Buckley,  
Haynes Miller,  
W.H. Abbott,  
James Kennedy,  
$ 

  Report of Chief Engineer.
MaRcH,  .
Casper Ranger, 
F. A. Shelley,  
Estate T. F. Kegan,  
B. F. Perkins,  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
Wm. B. Whiting Co.,  
S. Worthington Paper Co.,.  
Curran Bros.  
F. P. Goodall,  
M. J. Griffin,  
G. E. Russell Co.,  
J.T. Hunter,  
M. Callahan,  
Prentiss, Brooks Co., |
Mrs. Marston, |
 Mrs. Fitzgerald, |
Mrs. Sullivan,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
Richard Shea,  
Dr. M. O’Connell,  
G. P. Ellison,  
W.H. Abbott,  
| 
APRIL,  .
City Foundry, . 
LaFrance Fire Engine Co.,  
Gamewell Fire Alarm Tel. Co.,  
r  

Report of Chief Engineer.  
C. Callahan Co, 
Andrew J. Morse Son,  
G E. Russell,  
Lyman Mills,  
John Tilley Co.,  
John E.  Kellogg,  
Wylie Hardware Co.,  
George H. England, ..  
B. F. Nichols,  
M. A. Allen, 
Holyoke Water Power Co.,.  
Daniel O’ Neill,  
William Greely,  
M. J. Griffin, 
D. A. Barrett,  
Fenton Dunn,  
W.H. Gay Co.,  
M. Callahan,  
Potter Bros.,  
City Mills,  
Mrs. Marston,  
F E. Buckley,  
Mrs. Wm. Sullivan,  
James Kennedy,  
S. Steits,  
John Pendy,  
M. J. Holloran,  
Richard Shea,  
Holyoke Steam and Gas Co.,  
Casper Ranger,  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works,  

  Report of Chief Engineer.
T. L. Keough, 
F. A. Shelley,  
Phelps Tower,  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
Dr. M. O’Connell,  
Mr. Ripply, Springfield,  
| 

May,  .

Prentiss, Brooks Co., 
City Mills Co., —-:B 
M. Callahan,  
Potter Bros.,  
Richard Shea,  
D. F. Coghlan, Estate,  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
s “é  
Geary Cahill,  
F. A. Shelley, tO,  
Mrs. Marston,  
P. N. Perkins,  
W.H. Abbott,  
“  
Alexandre Gagnon,  
F. C. Steele Co.,  
H. E. Gaylord,  U
C. M. Sheldon, oo,  
; Joseph Bolanger,  
James Kennedy,  
M. A. Allen Son,  
City Foundry,  

Report of Chief Engineer.  
Beattie Zinc Co., 
F. P. Goodall,  
W. Midwood Son,  
Holyoke Machine Co.,  
M. J. Griffin,  
Manchester Locomotive Works,  
Lafrance Fire Engine Co.,  
I. C. Kellogg,  
G. E. Russell,  
Peter O’Connell,  S. Worthington Paper Co.,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
| 
JUNE,  ,
Haynes Miller,  
G. P. Ellison,  
New England Tel. Co.,  
““ Oe  
Richard Shea,  
Springfield Republican Pub. Co.,  
American Sanitary Association,  
B. F. Nichols,  
New England Tel. Co.,  
W. H. Abbott,  
J. T. Hunter,  
N. Y.,N.H.& H.R. R.Co.,,  
Thomas Childs,  
M. A. Allen Son,  
P. J. Griffin,  
F. P. Goodall,  

  Report of Chief Engineer.
Lynch Bros., 
City Mills,  
M. Callahan,  
F. E. Buckley,  
Mrs. Marston,  
Mrs. Wm. Sullivan,  
J. A. Cleveland,  
G. E. Russell Co.,  
D. F. Coghlan,  
Fenton Dunn,  
M. J. Callahan,  
Geary Cahill,  
F. A. Shelley,  
R. T. Oakes Co., to  
Holyoke Water Power Co...  
$  
JULY,  .
M. Hicks Co., Lo, 
F. P. Goodall,  
C.G. Brasman,  
Sullivan, Carmody Wesely,  
City Foundry,  
J. Russell Co.,  
L. Cavanaugh Co.,  
Curran Bros.,  
Lafrance Fire Engine Co.,  
G. Goodyear Rubber Co., |
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works, |
Curran Bros., |

Report of Chief Engineer.  
G. E. Russell Co., 
New England Tel. Co.,..  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
Richard Shea,  
Fenton Dunn,  
D. F. Coghlan, Estate,  
J. T. Hunter,  
M.J.Laporte,   
F. A. Shelley,  
Phelps Tower,. .,  
T. F. Kegan Estate,  
Geary Cahill,  
Mrs. William Sullivan,  
Mrs. Marston,  
M. Callahan,  
City Mills,  
M. O’Connell,  
D. W. Kennedy,  
| W.H. Abbott,  
W.L. Bishop,  
G. P. Ellison, Co,  
P. J. Moynahan,  
$ 
AvuaustT,  .
F. A. Shelley, 
Curran Bros., 
Eastern Electrical Supply Co.,  
M. J. Laporte,  
J. T. Hunter,  
F. P. Goodall,  

|

  Report of Chief Engineer. !
G. E. Russell Co., 
T. F. Kegan, Estate, 
F. E. Buckley,  
Mrs. Marston,  
Theodore Spamer,  
P. J. Moynahan, Coo  
G. P. Ellison,  
W. H. Ross Co.,  
Geary Cahill,  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
Prentiss, Brooks Co.,  
- City Mills,  
M. Callahan,  
Potter Bros.,  
Richard Shea, ..  
$ 

SEPTEMBER,  .

Mrs. Marston, 
Mrs. Wm. Sullivan,  
E. R. Crafts,  
New England Tel. Co.,  
Curran Bros.,  
EK. D. Shaw, —..  
W. H. Mayberry,  
Fenton Dunn,  
J.T. Hunter,  
Phelps Tower, 
Keough Carriage Co.,.  
T. L. Keough,  

Report of Chief Engineer.  
Potter Bros., 
M. Callahan,  
City Mills,  
D. Moynahan,  
M. J. Callahan,  
H. H. Carter,  
John Markham,  
John E. Kellogg,  
Richard Shea,  
F. P. Goodall,  
Manchester Locomotive Works,  
C. Callahan Co.,  
T. F. Kegan, Estate,  
G. E. Russell Co.,  
New England Tel. Co.,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
Griffith, Cady Co.,  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
M. J. Griffin,  
Rubber Works,  
M. J. Laporte,  
Dr. M. O’Connell,  
T. J. Moynahan,  
W.H. Abbott,  
$ 
| OcToBER,  .
Mrs. Wm. Sullivan,  
Mrs. Marston,  
P. J. Griffin,  

  Report of Chief Engineer.
H. H. Carter, 
S. J. Hobbs,  
Mr. Sullivan,  
Charles L. Russell,  
M. Callahan,  
City Mills Co...  
Casper Ranger,  
Charles E. Barrey,  
Geo. Walker,  
R. T. Oakes Co.,  
Fenton Dunn,  V
F. A. Shelley,  
J. A. Cleveland,  
Curran Bros.,  
F. P. Goodall,  
C.  Childs,  
W.M. Reid Co.,  
Richard Shea,  
$ 
NovEMBER,  .
G. E. Russell Co., $$  
New England Gamewell Co.,  ,
T. F. Kegan, Estate,  
Holyoke Machine Co.,..  
R. H. Smith,  
W.H. Abbott, —.  
M. J. Callahan,  )
Griffith, Cady Co.,  
William Buckley,  
J. T. Hunter,  

Report of Chief Engineer.  

Mrs. Wm. Sullivan, 
A. A. Jones,  
Geary Cahill,  
M. J. Griffin, 
W. L. Bishop,  
F. E. Buckley,  
Fenton Dunn,  
M. J. Callahan,  
M. Callahan,  
Highland Spring Ice Co.,  
W.H. Abbott,  
Mrs. Marston,  
P. J. Moynahan,  
G. E. Russell Co.,  
J. T. Hunter,  
W.E. Stetson,  
Richard Shea,  
Prentiss, Brooks Co.,  
Patrick Cunicham,  
J. A. Cleveland,  
F. A. Shelley,  
P, J. Movnahan,  
L. G. Morey,  
W.H, Mayberry,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.—gas bill,  
$ 

RECAPITULATION.

December,   
January,   
February,  

  Report of Chief Engineer.
March, “s 
April, ‘*  
May,  
June,  
July, 
August,   
September, ‘‘  
October,  
November,  
Salaries,  
Pay of Members,  
W ater, 
Hose,  
$  
SALARIES.
Chief Engineer, per year, 
First Assistant Engineers, per year,  
Clerk of Board of Engineers, per year,  
Engineers of Steamers, per year,.  
Stokers of Steamers, per year,  
Drivers of apparatus, per year,  
Tillermen, per year,  
Call Men, per year, LO,  
Members of Steamer Co. No.  per year,  

Report of Chief Engineer.  
ROLL OF MEMBERS.
Mr. Tom Hoss, No.  .

) Name. Age. Residence. Appointed
F. D. Moynahan, foreman, —— Feb. 
J. H. Lee, Ist assistant, Newton, Feb. 
Louis Blackmer,  assistant, West, Mar. 
J. J. Byrnes, clerk and treas., West, Mar. 
W. H. Strain, West, Nov. 
E. R. Train, Main, Aug, 
J. H. Waters, Engine house, July 
G. Doran, EK. Dwight, Jan. 
W. McCarty, Pine, Feb. 
P. F. Carroll, Main, Nov. 
George Blackmer, West, Dee. 
P. Gleason, Bridge, Dec. 
P. F. O'Neill, Ely court, Aug. 
J. Dowling, Main, Feb. 

Rescuz Hook anp LappvrerR Co., No.  .
Name. Age. Mesidence, Appointed.
A. M. Shepardson, foreman, Suffolk, Oct. 
W. O. Judd, first assistant, Maple, Aug. 
N. B. Percy, second assistant, Locust, Sept. 
A.  Read, clerk and treasurer, Taylor, Jan. 
Robert McDonald, Suffolk, Oct. 
G. C. Buckley,  High, Aug. 
J. A. Embury, Newton, May 
S. E. Gifford, Walnut, May 
Fred Burt, Walnut, Dec. 
Robert Miller, High, May 
John W. Bligh, Newton, July 
John Kelliher, High, Nov.  
P. Conway, High, Aug. 
William Ross, Newton, Dec. 

  Report of Chief Engineer.
ReLiance STEAMER Co., No.  .

Name. Age. Residence. Appointed.
John L. Rae, foreman, Cabot. —
Joseph Chambers, Ist assistant, High. —— John Gilligan,  assistant, High, Nov. 
I. J. Humes, clerk and treas., Dwight. ———
Joseph Irwin, Newton. ———.
C. E. Waite, John. ———
George Percy, Bond. ———
Walter Stetson, Maple. ——-—
Daniel O’Neill, Bh. ———
Samuel McCain, Hampden, Nov. 
M. J. Callahan, High. —.
Edward Potwin, Beacon ave. ———.
David Gaines, do., June 
Frank Wall, March 

ReieF STEAMER Co., No.  .

Name. Age. Residence. Appointed.
Ignatius Shirk, foreman, Kast, Dec. 
Daniel Brennan, first assistant, Main, April 
C. Chamberlain, second assistant, Park, March 
T. F. Downing, clerk and treas., Newton, Sept. 
William Wynn, Main, Sept. 
Edward Foley, Main, July 
D. C. Downing, Main, Nov. 
John Burke, Race, May 
William Crohan, Park, Nov. 
Chris O’Brien, Main,  Sept.  
D. Downing, Race, Aug. 
John Brennan, Race, Aug. 
Frank B. Rogers, Main, June 
Geo. Walker, engineer, Park, Aug.  ,

C. Cunningham, stoker, Park, Nov.  ,

Report of Chief Engineer.  
STEAMER Co. No.  .

Name. Age. Residence. Appointed.
M. N. Snow, foreman, Allen, May 
S. D. Loomis, first assistant, Howard, July 
J. A. Cleveland, second assist.. Taylor, Sept. 
C. W. Read, clerk and treas., Taylor, July 
R. M. Wolohan, Hampden, July 
W. O. Shelley, Nonotuck, Nov. 
W. B. Gero, Pleasant, July 
L. F. Jones, Hampden, July 
L. F. Thorpe Hampd’n, Sept. 
Chas. Hammond, Taylor, Sept. 
A. P. Howes, Hampd’n, Sept. 
Chas. Abbott, Hampden, June 
Walter Buckley, Hampd’n, June 
C. D. Read, Taylor. ——
C. H. Knapp, engineer, Pleasant. —John Castle, stoker, Beacon ave. ——.

Mr. Hotyoxe Hoss Co., No.  .

Name. Age. Lvesidence. Appointed 
Thomas Johnson, foreman, Cabot, May 
Edward Ahearn,  st. assistant, Cabot, March 
Fred Russell,  d. assistant, Bridge, April 
Louis Blair, clerk and treas., Main, Aug. 
E. J. Neville, High, Jan. 
James Anderson, Hamilton, July 
Napoleon Miller, East, Sept. 
Dennis Flynn, Cabot, March 
Robert Dray, Main, Dec. 
Ignatz Hegy, Brown ave. ————
Henry Fisher, Park, Feb. 

  Report of Chief Engineer.

Thomas Mullen, Main, Nov. 
John Leary, Maple, ———
William Hoare, Sargeant, —EmERALD Hose Co., No.  .
Name. Age. [esidence. Appointed.
M. Domnelly, foreman, Hampd’n, Nov. 
P. J. Lynch, first assistant, Chestnut, Aug. 
D. F. Nelligan, second assistant,  Lyman, Sept. 
P. F. Lynch, clerk and treasurer,  Maple, Jan. 
M. J. Cronin, Chestnut, ——
John Casey, Walnut, ————
C.J. Doherty, Hampden, Aug. 
John Rohan, Pine, Jan. 
Jerry Donahue, High, Jan. 
Michael Lynch, Lyman, Feb. 
T. J. Lynch, Chestnut, Nov. 
G. P. Buckley, Chestnut, Jan. 
J. Lynch, Lyman, Sept. 
James Long, ——— Sept. 
) Hook anp Lapper Co. No  .

. Mame. Age. Lesidence. Appointed.
red Strong, foreman, Taylor, July,  
Frank Rideout, first assistant, Hampden, July,  
Chas. Knapp, second assistant, Pleasant, Aug.,  
J.K. Worthington, clerk, treas.. Pleasant, July,  

) B. W. Sweet, Taylor, July,  
W.IT. Delaney, Beacon ave., July,  
F. M. Stebbins, Dwight, Oct.,  
J. W. Ricker, Pleasant, March,  
W. H. Stebbins, Dwight, Oct.,  

Report of Chief Engineer.  
S. J. Wolohan, Hampden, May,  
Fred Ferris, Pleasant, March,  
Dwight Sweet, Taylor, Dec.,  
F. L. Davis, Hampden, June,  
G. P. B. Alderman, Beacon ave., ———  
DEXTER STEAMER Co., No.  .

Name. Age. Residence. Appointed.
George R. Hicks, foreman, South, Mar. 
George W. Hill,  st. assistant, Allyn, Sept. 
David M. Hood,  d. assistant, Elmwood, Oct. 
E. Netherwood, clerk and treas., North’n, Oct. 
H. M. Ely, steward, Bh, Jan. 
Henry L. Thayer,  South, Sept. 
Kossuth J. Rogers, Chapin, Jan. 
Henry O. Bogart, Maple, Mch. 
John A. Hood, Lawler, Mar. 
Ira G. Mattice, A,Elmw’d, Feb. 
Edward L. Shumway, Willow, Mar. 
William Koegle, Bridge, June 
I. N. Berry, engineer,  B,Elmw’d, Mar. 
Louis La Brecque, stoker, South, Nov. 

Hook anp LapneEr Co. No.  .

Name. Age. fesidence. Appointed.
John P. Reed, foreman, Gates. ——E. D. Liebeck, first assistant, South. ———
William Murray, second asst., Chapin. ——
Wallace Marshall, clerk and treas.  ——
John Begely, Gates. ——
F. C. Leining, Brown ave. —
J. C. Griffin, Brown ave. ———
J. J. Moriarty, Allyn. ——.

  Report of Chief Engineer.
M. J. Kennedy, Gates. ———
P. Cavanaugh, South. ———
M. J. Gadagan, Cabot. ——
Chas. Gilmore, Brown ave. ——
J. P. Shea, Gates. ———
William Tynan, Brown ave. ——
RESERVE STEAMER.
Engineer—Maurice Moynahan, engine house.
Stoker—Robert Green, engine house.
| PERMANENT FORCE.
Timothy Harrington, driver Steamer No.  .
Daniel Hogan, driver Steamer No,  .
Albert Ellison, driver Steamer No.  .
Jolin Moynahan, driver Hook and Ladder No.  .
Wiliam West, driver Reliance Hose Wagon.
James Lynch, driver Relief Hose Wagon.
James McNally, driver Mt. Tom Hose Wagon, Ne.  .
John Long, driver Emerald Hose Wagon, No.  .

: Fred E. Buckley, driver Steamer No. Ilose Wagon.
James Pendergast, tillerman Hook and Ladder Co. No.  .
James Brady, driver Mt. Holyoke Hose Wagon, No.  .

COMMITTEE OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
ALDERMEN.
R. P. Donoghue. Thomas Kennedy. J. P. Prescott.
COUNCILMEN.
William Brockway. Albert Renner.
Daniel O’Connell. Harry D. Williams.

Report of Chief Engineer.  
BOARD OF ENGINEERS.
CHIEF.
John T. Lynch.
ASSISTANTS,

Thomas O’ Keefe. Thomas Bligh.
Joe LaFrance. Edward Gorman.
John Buckley.

LIST OF FIRES AND ALARMS.
April  p.m. Wood yard and several large piles of weod
Box  on Hampden and Bh street, owned by
General alarm. William B. Whiting Co. and the Conn.
River Mfg. Co. At the fire the entire
departinent was on duty for about fifteen
hours, and help was received from the Springfield department.  Thirty-six houses and
buildings, owned by the following parties,
were more or less damaged by sparks from
this fire. Name of owners: Frank Dougherty, Daniel Dowd, Catherine Gallavin, John
Lynch, Estate of J. Sullivan, Michael Kane,
Hugh Kane, Michael Conway, Terrance Conway, Eugene Moriarty, Patrick Dudley,
William A. Chase, Simon Kinney, Alex. MeElligott, Patrick Griffin, Estate of Thomas
O’Riley, Eilen Graney, Mary Sullivan, Elizabeth Long, Michael Dumford, Mrs. Con.
Haley, Fenton Dunn, Daniel Connor,
Thomas Tierney, Mrs. John Lynch, John
| Cavanaugh, D. W. Bond, Terrance Conway,
James Sheehay, Jos. N. Prew, Estate of

  Report of Chief Engineer.

Dennis Donovan. The total value was

- damage, insurance
upon, insurance paid, .
Cause of fire, caught from engine used for
sawing wood.

Dec.  Still. Wood dwelling on Hamilton street, owned
by John Gates, and occupied by Henry Annon. Value, insured for insurance paid, damage, Children
playing with matches. .

Dec.  a.m. Wood dwelling on Maple street, owned by

Box  James Geraghty and occupied by Wm. E.
Trask. Value, insured for ;
insurance paid, damage, Defective chimney.

Dec.  p.m. Wood dwelling on High street, owned by

Box  Joseph N. Prew. Value, insured for
$ no damage. Defective chimney.

Dec.  a.m. Wood dwelling on High street, owned by

Box  Val Moquin, and occupied by Joseph Labonte. Value, Defective chimney.

Jan.  p.m. Wood barn on Elm street, owned by Mrs.

Box  Maria E. Frittz. Not occupied. Value,
$ no insurance; damage, Incendiary.

Jan.  a.m. Wood dwelling on Central street, owned
by John Sullivan and occupied by Timothy
Lynch. Value, insured for ;
damage insurance paid, .

Jan.  p.m. Wood barn, Mrs. Willard estate; barn on

Box  Elm street, owned by Allen Higginbottom
and occupied by A. Higginbottom. Value,
$ no insurance; damage, Incendiary.

Report of Chief Engineer.  
Jan.  Still. Wood meat-storehouse on Race street .
owned and occupied by F. C. Steele. Value
$ no damage; cause of fire, low water
in boiler.
Jan.  p. m. Stone church on Maple street owned and
occupied by the Episcopal congregation.
Value, insurance, damage,
$ Cause of fire, caught from gas
light.
Jan. a.m. Wood dwelling on Fountain strect owned
Box  and occupied by Thomas Carmody and Mary
. Connor. Value, insured for insurance paid, caught from candle.
Feb.  p.m. Wood barn on Walnut street owned by
Box  James Cowan, not occupied. Value, ;
insured for damage, cause of fire,
incendiary.
Feb.  p.m. Wood house-shed between East and Park
Box  streets near B. F. Mullin’s old boiler shop;
owned by Mathew W. Doland. Value, ;
no insurance, no damage. Cause, incendiary.
Feb.  p.m. Car load of hay owned by Holyoke and
Box  Westfield R. R. Co., and contents owned by
D. E. Pero. Value, insured for ;
damage, Cause of tire, incendiary.
Feb.  p.m. Wood barn on Race street owned by
Parsons Paper Co. Value, insured
for no claim for insurance. Cause,
incendiary.
Feb.  Still. Brick dwelling on Main street owned by
  p.m. Theophilus St. Martin. Value, ;
insured for  no damage. Cause,
caught from furnace.

  Report of Chief Engineer.
Feb.  a.m. Wood dwelling on High street, owned by
Box  Jos. N. Prew. Value, insured for
$ no damage. Cause of fire, defective
flue in chimney.
Feb.  p.m. Wood barn on Walnut street, owned by
Box  Jerome L. Gillette. Value, insured
for damage, insurance paid, .
Cause, Incendiary.
Feb. Wood dwelling on Ely street, owned by
p.m. Box Geo. O. Perreault and occupied by Mary Lapirre. Value, insured for ;
damage, insurance paid, ‘This
building was on fire in two places when department arrived.
Mar.  p. m. Brick store on High street, owned by DaBox  vid Stratton and occupied by Thomas Connor.
! Value, insured for damage,
# insurance paid,  Cause of fire,
overheated stove.
Mar.  p. m. Woods on Suffolk street, owned by Water
Box  Power Co. Woods were on fire and drawing near the houses.
April  p.m. Wood barn on Elm street, Elmwood,
Box  owned by Thomas Gallivan and occupied,
Value, insured for damage,
# insurance paid, Cause of fire,
unknown.
April  p.m. Wood dwelling on Elm street, Elmwood,
Box  owned by Thomas Begley and occupied by
same. Value, insured for ;
damage, insurance paid,  Caught
from Gallivan’s house. ;

Report of Chief Engineer.  
April  p.m. Wood dwelling on Elm street, owned by
Box  Elize Frost and occupied by same. Value,
$ no claim for insurance. Caught
from Gallivan’s house.
April  p.m. Wood dwelling on Elm street, owned by
. Box  Beebe Holbrook, not occupied. Value,
$ insured for  damage ;
insurance paid Cause, incendiary.
April  p.m. Brick dwelling on Hampden street, owned
Box  by Lyman Mills and occupied by Mrs. Clark.
Value, insured for no claim
for insurance. Cause, kerosene oil lamp exploded. ,
May  a. m. Wood dwelling on Main street, owned by |
Box  Mary Lippmann and occupied by same.
Value, *# insured for damage
$ insurance paid  Cause of fire,
over-heated stove.
May  p.m. Wood-yard on Prospect street, owned by
Box  Wm. B. Whiting Co. Value, no
insurance; damage, Incendiary.
May  p.m. Wood-shed on Fountain street, owned by
Box  Joe N. Prew. Value,  insured for
£ no damage. Cause of fire, children.
May  p.m. Wood grocery store on Ely street, owned
Box  by John Ford and occupied by same. Value,
$ no claim for insurance. Cause unknown.
May  p.m. Brick dwelling on high street, owned by
Still. Hubbard Taber. Value, insured
for damage, insurance paid,
$ Cause, butt of cigar left on seat of
watercloset with papers.

  Report of Chief Engineer.
May  p.m. Wood dwelling on East street, owned by
Still. J. Cushing and O’Neill. Value, ;
insured for damage, insurance
paid, .
May p.m. Wood barn on John street, owned by
Box  Charles Cleary and occupied by same. Val- .
ue, insurance, damage, ;
insurance paid, Cause of fire, incendiary.
May  p.m. Brick dwelling on Main street, owned by
Box  Mrs. A. K. Smith and occupied by same.
Value, insured for damage,
$ insurance paid, Cause, children
| set clothing in closet on fire.
June p.m. Car of hay on Front street, owned by Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Co., occupied by
City Mills. Value, insured for. ;
damage, insurance paid, Cause
of fire, incendiary.
June  a.m. Brick dwelling on High street.
June  p.m. Straw in alley, owned by City of Holyoke.
Box  No loss.
June Wood dwelling on Chestnut street, owned
Still. by Thomas Dillon, occupied by Mrs. J. Ferritter. Value, insured for damage, insurance paid, Cause of
fire, children playing with matches.
June  p.m. Brick dwelling on Dwight street, owned
Box  by Daniel O’Connell and occupied by Mary
R. Bateman. Value, insured for
* “damage, insurance paid, .
Cause, caught /from barn.

Report of Chief Engineer.  
June  p. m. Wood barn on Dwight street, owned by
Box  Daniel O’Connell and occupied by Mary R.
Bateman. Value, insured for ;
damave, insurance paid, Cause,
incendiary.
July  p.m. Wood barnon Dwight street, owned by
Box  Geo. C. Ewing and occupied by William
Slattery.
July  p.m. Wood barn on Kast street, owned by ThomBox  as Sullivan and occupied by Thomas Sullivan.
Value, insured for damage, ;
‘insurance paid, Cause, fire-crackers.
July Wood dwelling on Cabot street, owned by
Box  Cyprien Paquette, and occupied by Cyprien
Paquette. Value, insured for ;
no damage. Cause, fire-crackers.
July p.m. Wood dwelling on Appleton street owned
Box  by Timothy Flanders and occupied by T. B.
Flanders. Value,  insurance, ;
' damage, insurance paid, Cause,
supposed to be incendiary.
July  a.m. Brick paper mill on the third level canal
Box  owned by Winona Paper Co. Value, ;
insured for no damage.
July  a. m.
Box  .
Aug.  a. m. Wood grocery and dwelling on East street
Box  owned by Michael Long and occupied by
Michael Long. Value, insured for )
$ damages, insurance paid,
$ Cause unknown.

  Report of Chief Engineer.
Aug.  a. m. Freight car on spur track back of Winona
Box  Paper Mill owned by Holyoke and Westfield
Railroad Co. Value, insured for ;
damages, insurance paid, Set
by boys.
Aug.  a.m. Freight car of rags on spur track; track
Box  owned by Holyoke and Westfield Railroad
Co. Value, insured for damage,
 Insurance paid, Cause unknown.
Aug.  p.m. Brick gasoline-storehouse on Dwight street
Box  owned by the city of Holyoke. Value, ;
no insurance, damage, Cause of the
fire, mudturtle caught by boys and saturated
with gasoline and then set on fire and headed
for the storehouse, which he set on fire.
Aug. p.m. Wood storehouse on Front street, owned
Box  by Mr. Allen Higginbottom, Willard estate,
and occupied by Allen Ilgginbottom and
George Grant. Value, insured for
$ damage, insurance paid, .
Cause, incendiary.
Aug,  p.m. Wood dwelling on Sargeant street, owned
Still. by Louis H. Schmidt and occupied by James
Collins. Value, insured for ;
no damage. Cause of fire, children playing
with matches.
Sept.  a.m. Wood ice house on Prospect street, owned
Box  by Holyoke and South Hadley Ice Co. Value, imsured for damage,
$ insurance paid, Cause,
incendiary.

Report of Chief Engineer.  
Sept.  a. m. Wood dwelling on Prospect street, owned
Box  by John Shea and occupied by John Shea.
Value, no insurance; damage, .
Cause, caught from ice house.
Sept.  a.m. Wood dwelling on Prospect street, owned
Box  by John Cleary and occupied by Thomas
Cleary. Value, insured for  ;
damage, insurance paid, Cause,
caught from ice house.
Sept.  a.m. Wood dwelling on Prospect street, owned
Box  by John Manning, not occupied. Value,
$ insured for no claim. Cause,
caught from ice house.
Sept.  a.m. Brick dwelling on Iligh street, owned by
Box  Anthony Young. Value, insured
for no claim, for his children set fire
to clothing in clothes-closet.
Sept.  p.m. Brick dwelling on Hampden street, owned
Box  by Lyman Mills and not occupied. Value,
$ insured for damage,  ;
insurance paid, Cause, pot of oil boiled
over while on stove.
Sept.  p. m. Wood barn on Dwight street, owned by
Box  B. F. Griffin and occupied by B. F. Griffin.
Value, insured for  damage,
$ insurance paid, Cause, incendiary.
Sept.  p.m. Wood storehouse on Front street, owned
Box  and occupied by Prentiss, Brooks Co.
Value, insured for no claim.
Cause, incendiary; set on fire two different
times in three days.

  Report of Chief Engineer.
Sept.  p.m. Freight car of paper on Main street owned
Still. by Conn. River R. R. Co. and occupied by
Judd Brothers. Value, insured for
$ no claim. Cause, sparks from locomotive.
Sept. p.m. Brick millinery store on High street, owned
Box  by Dennis Higgins and occupied by Honorah
Manning. Value, insured for
$ damaye, insurance paid,
$ Cause of the fire unknown.
Oct.  p.m. Brick barn on Suffolk street, owned by
Box  William Nash and occupied by William
Nash. Cause of fire, incendiary.
Oct.  p. m. Brick dwelling on Newton street owned
Box  by James Dougherty and occupied by John
C. Smith. Value, insured for ;
damage, insurance paid, Cause,
kerosene oil stove caught on fire.
Oct.  p.m. Wood dwelling on High street, owned by
Box  Joe N. Prew. Value, insured for
$ damage, insurance paid, .
Oct Still. Brick dwelling on Lyman street, owned
by Gilbert Potvin and occupied by Nasarie
Blanchertto. Value, insured for
$ no claim. Cause, child set the bed
on fire.
Oct.  p.m. Brick dwelling on Bridge street owned by
box  ITart Chapdelane. Value, insured
for damage, insurance paid, .
Cause, children set fire to husk bed which
was spread on the floor to dry. |

Report of Chief Engineer.  
Oct.  p.m. Wood house on High street, owned by
Stull. James Shea, notoccupied. Value,  insured for  damage, insurance
paid Cause, set by girls.
Oct.  p.m. Brick dwelling on Park street, owned by
Box  Bernard W. Gerhring and occupied by Ber, nard W, Gerhring. Value, insured |
for no damage. Set by child.
Oct.  p.m. Wood barber shop on High street, owned
Box  by N. G. Hayes and occupied by G. RB.
Laduke. Value, insured for ;
damage, insurance paid, Cause
unknown.
Nov.  p. m. Brick paper mill, owned by Valley Paper
Box  Co., and occupied by Valley Paper Co.
Value, insured for damage, insurance paid, .
Cause of fire, from friction pulley on ealender.
Nov.  p. m. Wood barn, alley off Walnut street,
Box  owned by estate of Mr. Barnes and Mrs.
Waterman, and occupied by D. Barbirea.
Value, insured for damage, ;
insurance paid, Cause of fire, incendiary.
Nov.  a.m. Wood-yard at saw mill, near Prospect
Box  street, owned by Conn. River Mfg. Co., and
occupied by Conn. River Mfg. Co. Value,
$ insured for damage, ;
insurance paid, Cause, caught from
engine close to wood pile.

  Report of Chief Engineer.
Nov.  p. m. Wood dwelling on Oak street, owned by
‘Box  A. A. Jones. Value, insured for
$ damage, insurance paid, .
Cause, children playing with matches.
Nov.  p.m. Brick paper mill on the third level canal,
Box  owned by Conn. River Paper Mfg. Co. and
occupied by Conn. River Paper Mfg. Co.
Value, insured for damage, insurance paid, Cause,
spontaneous combustion.
Nov.  p.m. Wood storehouse on Main street, owned
Box  by  T. Lyman and occupied by S. T. Lyman. Value, insured for ;
damage, insurance paid, Cause,
defective chimney.


Digitized by Google

‘
|
|
|

Annual Report of the City Engineer.
HoLyoxkeE, Mass., Dec.,  .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and City Council of
the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN—In compliance with the requirements of
the city ordinances, respectfully present the following
report of the department under my charge during the
year  :

With the beginning of the year was instructed to
prepare plans and specifications for two new engine
houses, the one just completed in Elmwood and the one
nearing its completion in Ward Three. In both houses I
desired to have strength, utility and durability in preference to display of costly ornamentations. The buildings are before you, gentlemen, and you can convince
yourselves of how far have sucded in my effort.
The preparations of the aforesaid plans and specifications required all the time from the beginning of the
year until the outdoor work commenced. Both buildings were constructed under my personal supervision, as
was also the addition to the Nonotuck Street Schoolhouse, for which plans and specifications were made in

  Report of City Engineer. ,
the months of May and June. The contract for this
work was let early in July, and the work completed on
the first day of September.

On account of the office work required to prepare the
aforesaid plans, the work on the city map, which commenced last fall, had to be delayed, but do hope to have
this work well under way by the opening of next season.

As in the first year of my administration surveys and
maps were made of all the sewers, acceptance and laying out of street assessment maps, etc.

For all curbing that was set, and which is shown in the
annexed table, grades and lines were given, the work
measured up and lists prepared.

Plans and specifications for twenty buildings were
examined and approved.

The following isa list of the plans prepared during
this season:

 Plans and specifications for barn at City Almshouse.

 Complete plans and details for the Elmwood engine
house.

 Complete plans and details for the Ward Three
engine house.

 Plansand specifications for the addition to the
Nonotuck Street Schoolhouse.

®. Plan and profile of Brown avenue.

 Plan and profile of sewers in Linden and Hampshire streets.

 Plan and profile of sewers in Canal and Mosher
streets.

Report of City Engineer.  

 Plan and profile of sewers in Pearl street and
Fairfield avenue.

 Plan and profile of proposed sewer in Cabot street
from Bridge to Park streets.

 Plan and profile of proposed new street through
James Partitt’s land from St. Jerome avenue to Northampton street.

 Plan and profile of Elm street from South street
northerly. ,

 Plan and profile of sewer in Suffolk street from
Linden street westerly.

 Plan and profile of sewer in alley between Summer and Bridge streets from Adams to Sargeant streets.

 Plan and profile of sewer in alley between Pine
and Bh streets from Dwight to Hampden streets.

 Plan and profile of sewer in Commercial street
from Sargeant street southerly.

 Detail section for the reconstruction of the Front
street sewer where old sewer had caved in.

 Plan and profile of Harrison ave., Washington
ave., Charles street, Chapin street (Elmwood).

 Plan and profile of sewers in Worcester place and
Commercial street, and alley between Worcester place and
Hampshire street.

 Plan and profile of Appleton street, from Main to
W inter street.

 ). Plan and profile of Plymouth place. |

 Plan and profile of sewer, in alley between East
and Central streets, near East Dwight street.

As stated in last report, Iam trying to ascertain the
location and depth of sewers built by the City, but of

  Report of Chief Engineer.

which no records are in my office, but naturally little
headway was made, as only such sewers or parts thereof
could be obtained where they had to be dug up.

I again must call the attention of the proper authorities to the fact that very inadequate provisions are made
to keep the accumulating plans and notes in safe places.
The only half safe place to keep anything, is my private
safe, which is hardly large enough to hold the note
books; what is needed is large fire-proof vault, where
all plans and records can be Kept.

In regard to bench marks have bench book into
which all reliable benches are recorded; naturally few
new benches have been added, as it requires time, suitable weather and careful work. Each bench must be
checked and proven correct before it can safely be used,
and this was hardly possible with all the urgent work
going on, unless an extra force could have been
employed.

BRIDGES.

All city bridges are in fair and safe condition except
the bridge referred to in last report, over the second
level canal on Bridge street near the South Hadley
County bridge. new substantial bridge should be built,
It was recommended that all other bridges should be
painted during this year but nothing was done. earnestly recommend this again.

PAVING.

In the line of paving the following work wasdone: The
pavement under the dry railroad bridge on Canal street
was lowered eight inches to allow the introduction of

Report of City Engineer.  
electric cars. High street was paved with asphalt blocks
from Lyman street to Dwight street. Perhaps never in
the history of this city was there such public interest
exhibited as in this special matter. When the matter of
paving High street came up general feeling prevailed
to use other material than stone blocks. Brick pavement
was recommended but finally decided to use granite
blocks. When this decision became generally known a’
large agitation ensued and finally the representatives of
the Board of Trade induced the authorities to reconsider.
It was decided that joint committee comprising the
Committee on Highways and Bridges and two representatives of the Board of Trade should go and visit
other cities, examine the merits of different pavements
and report to the City Council.

The committee consisted of members respectively
strongly in favor of brick, granite and asphalt. On
their return on the  th day of May they unanimously
recommended asphalt blocks.

From observation during the time this pavement has
been open to the public use it seems to be good wearing, clean pavement. The only objection have been
able to hear is that it is too smooth and becomes slippery
if not kept entirely clean from accumulations. Of course
it is necessary to let the drivers and horses get accustomed to smooth pavement, as with careless driving it
is very natural that horses will slip, especially if the
driver tries to stop suddenly. hope that this pavement
will give general satisfaction after proper time has elapsed
to test its merits.

  Report of City Engineer.
ROADS.

On the whole, this was very trying year on unpaved
roads, owing to the lack of proper moisture, but much
good was done by the sprinkling, done for the first time
by the city. The roads are in comparably good condition, and trust that the purchase of the road-roller will
prove to be good investment in the future.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

All public buildings except those lately finished are in
need of repairs. The Appleton Street School should be
repaired and strengthened. The floors of all other schools
need attention, as well as all the plastering and painting.
The City Hall needs painting very badly on all the outside wood work; the floor in the large hall should be
replaced. |

SEWERS.

As stated in last report, many of our present sewers
will prove to be too small, and others will wear out; to
meet this contingency should recommend to start a
sinking fund for this purpose. complete sewerage
system for the southern portion of Ward Seven becomes
more needed every day, and it will require very liberal
appropriation to accomplish this object.

During the present year five hundred feet of the Front
street sewer has been rebuilt. fear that in the near
future another section will need to be treated in similar
manner. The largest sewer construction was done in the
new trunk sewer in Mosher street, from Canal street to
the Connecticut River, and the continuation of the Canal

Report of City Engineer.  
street sewer to connect with this outlet this relieves the
Lyman street sewer, and will allow of the discontinuance
of the trunk sewer under the Winona (Chemical No.  )
mill if it should ever become necessary. Brick sewers
were also built in Mosher street, Bridge and East Dwight,
to connect with the aforesaid trunk sewer.

Lateral pipe sewers were constructed in different parts
of the city, for which respectfully refer to the report of
the Superintendent of Streets and Sewers.

SIDEWALKS.

More curbing and sidewalks were set, laid and relaid
and covered than in any previous year in this city’s
history.

GRADE CROSSINGS.

W hat was said in last report in regard to grade crossings holds good for this year, but it seems of little importance when the State Legislature deliberately allows
new crossings constructed at grade.

The following shows the expenditure in my department
during the current year:

Salary of Engineer from Jan.  to

Dec. , 
Salary of assistant,  
Salary of helper,  
Instruments, drawing materials and

office supplies,  

Total, . 

  Report of City Engineer.

TABLE OF STREET GRADES ESTABLISHED.

STREET. INTERSECTING STREET. ELEVATION.
Appleton Main  
Appleton Crescent  
Appleton Conn. R. R. bridge  
Appleton Bowers  
Appleton Winter  
Brown ave. ft.south South st.  
Brown ave. Laurel !
Brown ave. Willow  
Brown ave. View |
Brown ave. Glen |
Brown ave. Dingle, end Brown ave.  
Chapin South |
Chapin Angle in Chapin  
Chapin Washington ave.  
Charles South  
Charles Washington ave.  
Harrison ave. South  
Harrison ave.  
Harrison ave. Washington ave.  
Plymouth place Commercial  
Plymouth place Alley (west)  
Parfitt’s new street Northampton  
Parfitt’s new street Farnum  
Parfitt’s new street St. Jerome ave.  
Washington ave. Chapin  
Washington ave. Charles  
Washington ave. Harrison ave.  
Washington ave.  
Washington ave. Northampton  

Report of City Engineer.  
CURBING SET .

Appleton street westerly from Oak to alley, feet
Bridge street easterly from Adams to Jackson,  
Bridge street easterly between Cabot and Hamilton, “
Bh street easterly between Essex and Cabot,  
Chestnut street westerly from Sargeant, &
Essex street southerly from Pine, westerly to alley, “
Essex street northerly from Oak, westerly to alley, “
Ely court and Center street, between Ely and Center

(Lyman Street School), “
Fountain street southerly from Union, westerly to

alley,   &
Franklin street northerly between Maple and Chestnut, &
Hamilton street southerly between Race and Canal,  “
High street easterly between Essex and Cabot, “
Hampden street southerly between Elm and Walnut, “
John street northerly between High and Front, “
John street southerly between High and Front, “
Mosher street southerly between Center and West, ‘“
Maple street westerly between Fountain and Prospect, ‘
Maple street westerly between Franklin and North,. “
Oak street easterly between Dwight and Suffolk, ‘“
Oak street westerly between Appleton and Suffolk, “
Oak and Hampshire, *“
Park street easterly between Adams and Jackson, “
Prospect street southerly between Maple and Chestnut, *
Prospect street northerly from High to Elm,  “
Pine street westerly between Hampden and Lyman, “

  Report of City Engineer.
Sargeant street southerly between Maple and Chestnut, feet
West street westerly from Mosher, front of Endeavor

Chapel, ggl 

 
SIDEWALKS LAID IN  .
CONCRETE.

Appleton street westerly from Oak to alley, Sl feet
Bridge street, easterly between Adams and Jackson, ‘“
Bridge street easterly between Cabot and Hamilton, ‘“
Bh street easterly between Essex and Cabot,  “
Chestnut street westerly from Sargeant,  
Essex street from Pine westerly to alley,  *
Essex street northerly from Oak to alley,  *
Ely court and Center street, between Lyman and

Ely (Lyman Street School),  “
Franklin street northerly between Maple and Chestnut,  h
Hamilton street southerly between Race and Canal, ‘
High street easterly between Essex and Cabot,  
John street northerly between High and Front,  nst 
John street southerly between High and Front,  
Lyman street southerly from Front to second level

canal bridge,  R
Mosher street southerly between Center and West, “
Maple street westerly between Fountain and Prospect,  
Maple street westerly from Franklin north, *
Oak street easterly between Dwight and Suffolk, *&
Oak street westerly between Appletonand Essex, 
Oak and Hampshire, 

Report of City Engineer.  
Prospect street southerly between Maple and Chestnut,  feet
Prospect street northerly from High to Elm,  
Pine street westerly between Hampden and Lyman, “
Sargeant street southerly between Maple and Chestnut, *
West street westerly from Mosher, southerly front
of Endeavor Chapel, &
BRICK.
Fountain street southerly from Union street westerly
to alley, yds.
Hamilton street southerly between Race and Canal,  “
Hamilton street southerly between Elm and Walnut, ‘“
Park street easterly between Adams and Jackson,  ‘
PAVING LAID IN  .

The amount of asphalt block pavement is square
yards. This was laid on High street from Lyman to
Dwight streets and in front of the Ward Six and Ward
Four engine houses. :

Granite block pavement will soon be necessary on
Appleton street from Main street to Bowers street.

In conclusion desire to acknowledge my obligations
to all those who have kindly and willingly helped me in
the performance of my duties and refer especially to
the departments which directed my work.

The kind and friendly attitude of the previous City
Engineers, the continued friendship exhibited by the

 Report of City Engineer. :
officers of the Water Power Company, the assistance of
your efficient and ever ready Superintendent of Streets,
and Superintendent of Public Buildings, all helped to
reach whatever success attained in my department during the current year.
Very respectfully submitted,
EK. WALTHER,
City Engineer.

Report of Committee on Fuel and Street
: Lights.
To the Honorable, the City Council of the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN: The Committee on Fuel and Street
Lights respectfully submit the following report of expenditures for the twelve months ending December :

Twenty-four electric lights have been put in during the
year. The total number of lamps at present is three
hundred and thirty-three ), divided as follows:
Electric lights, one hundred and eighty-three ); gas
lamps, forty-nine naphtha burners, thirty-nine ).

One thousand tons of coal has been furnished the city
during the year, the contract having been awarded to
Wm. B. Whiting Co. for five and dollars.

EXPENDITURES IN DETAIL.
Holyoke Water Power Co., electric lights, 
“ ‘gas,  
James F. Greaney, services,  
Thomas Connor, repairs,  
M. J. L. Laporte, cartage,  
Dean Wheelock, repairs,  ,

  Report of Committee on Fuel and Street Lights.
Wm. B. Whiting Co., fuel, 
M. J. Finn, fuel,  
Wim. A. Chase, fuel,  
L. Cavanaugh Co., repairs,  
G. E. Russell Co.,  
P. J. Griffin, hacks,  
Worthington Paper Co., naphtha,  
Fenton Dunn,  
John O’ Donnell, alcohol,  
Sullivan, Carmody Wesely, repairs,  
Curran Bros., alcohol,  
M. J. Griffin, alcohol,  
Globe Gas Light Co., repairs,  
Holyoke Coal and Wood Co., fuel,  
Daily Democrat Pub. Co., advertising,  
Transcript Pub. Co., advertising,  
T. J. Dillon, hacks,  
Jerry Bynane, hacks,  
Casper Ranger, repairs,  
F. P. Goodall, alcohol,  
J. A. Cleveland, repairs,  
: Estate of T. F. Greaney,  J.J. Linehan, matches,  
James F. Greaney, cartage,  
$ 

M. P. CONWAY,
Chairman.

Report of Committee on Fuel and Street Lights.  
In Board of Aldermen, Dec. .
Read by its title and accepted.
T. D. O'BRIEN,
Clerk.
Sent to Common Council for concurrence.
In Common Council, Dec. .
CONCURRED:
J. F. STAPLETON,
Clerk.

Report of Superintendent of Streets.
To the Honorable, the Mayor and City Council of the
City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to submit the following report as summary of the work in the several departments under the supervision of this office, for the
year  .

The total expenditure in the Highway Department
was of which  were spent for depressing the grade of Canal street at its intersection with Lyman street;  were spent fur relaying the paving
on both of the Dwight street bridges, and  for removing from the street snow cast from street railway
tracks. The three last named sums are to be paid by
the Holyoke Street Railway Co. to the City of Holyoke;
$  were paid to W. S. Perkins, and  to M. F.
Walsh, for land taken to lay out Brooks and O’Connor
avenues as public highways, making net expenditure
of .

The principal improvements were the grading of John
street between High and Front streets, the grading of
Elm street from South street, north about feet,
and the graveling of Maple street from South Hampden
street. All other streets received the necessary attention
in the line of gravel and repair.

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  

A new policy should be adopted in this department for
hardening our streets, considering the scarcity of gravel
and the expense of hauling the same from either Wilkinson’s farm or Ball’s gravel bank, distance of four
miles, which mean nothing less than  per load.

The mud which accumulates on our streets must be
removed to the saw mill dump or to the river below
South street, which makes it very expensive to keep our
streets hard and clean.

Threfore, your superintendent feels justified in recommending the purchase of steam road roller, and
other necessary tools for the purpose of macadamizing
our streets; the outlay for the above would not be more
than The macadam can be bought ready for use
for sum as cheap as the city can make it, or at any rate
until the city can find suitable plan to establish plant
for the purpose of crushing stone.

A special appropriation should be made for the purpose of widening the Springfield road from Springdale to
Wilkinson's farm.

There are several narrow and crooked places between
the said points which should receive the attention of the
Highway committee, as this is the main thoroughfare
between Holyoke and most of our important neighboring cities and towns. It is for our good name as progressive community that our main line of travel should
be of good width and grade.

PAVING,  .

The total number of square yards of asphalt paving

laid this year was at cost of or 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
per square yard, which is cents per yard more than
granite paving.

Four thousand nine hundred forty-three square yards
were laid on High street between Lyman and Dwight
streets at cost of .

Sixty-four square yards were laid on High Street
Engine House driveway, at cost of .

Eighteen square yards were laid on the Emerald Engiue
House driveway, at cost of  

I would respectfully recommend that liberal appropriation be made for the paving of High street from
Dwight to Cabot streets, and Appleton street from Main
street to the driveway of Merrick’s lumber yard.

STREET SPRINKLING,  .

The passage of an act by the Legislature of  ,
authorizing cities to do the work of sprinkling streets at
public expense, was duly considered by the present
City Goverment, and the system adopted. think it
has given general satisfaction, considering the restriction
put on this department by the Water Commissioners,
limiting the sprinkling of streets to Dwight, High and
Main streets, for period of six weeks.

The total expenditure in this department was
$  of which  were expended for thirteen
watering carts, leaving  for the running expenses.

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
SIDEWALKS.

The expenditure in this department was  .

Number of square yards of concrete laid new,  §
“s  “s recoating, §

‘  ‘é  brick laid new,  

Cec ce cé Ce old,  
Total square yards,  

Total length of walks laid, running feet.

Number of feet of curbing set,  .

The new policy adopted in this department of re-coating our uneven brick walks has met witb great favor by
the public; and liberal appropriation should be set
aside to continue this work next year.

| SEWERS.

There have been expended on sewers this year The principal work in the sewer department has
been the construction of the Mosher street trunk sewer
at cost of .

The brick sewer in Mosher, Bridge and East Dwight
streets, at cost of The rebuilding of feet
of the Front street sewer at cost of  and  
feet of lateral sewer in different parts of thecity. Something should be done at an early date to provide sewerage for Elmwood and Oakdale, as both districts are growing very rapidly. The Front street sewer is in such a
condition that it may cave in at any moment at different
places. The sewer in Lyman street from the alley be  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
tween Pine and Walnut streets to Elm street should be
relaid. Thanking the members of the City Council and
the various other city officials associated with me in the
discharge of my duties, for their co-operation and support, respectfully submit this report.
HENRY WINKLER,
Supt. of Streets and Sewers.
HIGHWAYS.
EXPENDITURES IN FULL,  .

Labor of men and teams, 
J. Russell Co.,  
Prentiss, Brooks Co.,  
Fitzgerald Co.,  
Horner Machine Co.,  
Geo. E. Russell Co.,  
J.T. Hunter,  
Casper Ranger,  
C. H. Baush Sons,  
Worthington Paper Co.,  
Wylie Hardware Co.,  
M.O’Connell,.  
Geo. Tyler Co.,  
Watson Ely Son, ..  
Henry Winkler,  
Keough Carriage Co.,  
Lander Bros.  
J. J. Casey,  
Clerk hire,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets. —
H. Whitaker, §. 
N. Y., N. H. H.R. R. Co.,  
E. D. Shelley,  
A. M. Shaw,  
Wm. Perkins,  
M. F. Walsh,  
Holyoke Daily Democrat,  
A. Gingras,  
Daniel O’Connell Son,  
J.C. Thorpe,  
M. Callahan,  
Haynes Miller,  
M. L. Wright,  
T. L. Keough,  
H. H. Carter,  
G. W. Prentiss,  
Emil Dreikorn, h
W.C. Pastler,  
C. J. Bresnahan,  
Holyoke Daily Transcript,  
Fenton Dunn,  
Sullivan, Carmody Wesely,  
M. Hicks Co.,  
Chase Cooledge,  
W.H Wilkinson,  
Sears Co.,.  
P. H. Hickey,  
M. A. Allen,  
P. J. Dooley,  
E. A. Friedrich,  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
T. J. Gibson, 
J. A. Cleveland,  
G. W. Richards,  
Merrick Lumber Co., i,  
J. W. Jolly,  
E. Chase Sons,  
Connecticut River R. R. Co.,  
M. J. Griffin,  
$ 
HIGHWAY EXPENDITURES IN DETAIL.
Country roads:
Labor of men and teams, 
Care of city yards:
Labor of men, 
Cleaning snow off bridges:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cleaning gutters and leveling snow on
streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
House numbering and putting up street
signs:
Labor of men and teams,  
Clerk hire, 
Breaking roads with snow plow:
Labor of men and teams,  
Building and reparing fences:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cost of removing snow from Dwight,
Main, Canal, High, Appleton, Pleasant, Lincoln and Maple streets:
Labor of men and teams, 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Building culverts on Springtield road
near Wilkinson’s farm:
Labor of men and teams, 
Pipe, cement and brick,  
| 
Building culvert on Northampton street
near Chas. Hastings’ farm:
Labor of men and team, 
Six pieces of  -inch Akron pipe  
$ 
RRPAIRS ON BRIDGES.
Replanking Main street bridge over third
level canal:
Labor of men and teams,  
Lumber,  
Spikes,  
$ 
Replanking Bridge street bridge over second level canal:
Labor of men and teams, 
Lumber,  
Spikes,  
$ 
Repairs on County bridge:
Labor of men and teams, 
Lumber and spikes,  
;  

|
  Report of Superintendent of Streets. ,
Repairs on other bridges:
Labor of men and teams, —. 
Washout on Bh street near North.
ampton street :
Labor of men and teams, 
Washout on Adams street, between
Bridge and Summer streets :
Labor of men and teams,  
Rebuilding cellar wall,  
$ 
Repairs on Springfield road :
Labor of men and teams, 
Washout on Dwight street, caused by the
bursting of the main waterpipe:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cleaning crosswalks :
Labor of men, 
Repairing streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cleaning streets :
Labor of men and teams, 
Cobbling gutters: |
Labor of men and teams, 
Location of gutters:
On south side of Sargeant street between Maple and Chestnut, sq. yds.
On northly side of Sargeant street between
the first and second level canals, 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
On northly side of Hampshire street between Oak and Bh, sq. yds.
On southerly side of Fountain street between High and Union, “
On John street between High and Front,  ““
Total, “
Repairs on South Holyoke ferry:
Labor of men and teams, 
Holyoke Daily Democrat and Transcript,
advt.  
Geo. W. Prentiss, wire cable,  
Casper Ranger, lumber and reel,  
C. H. Baush Sons, apron,  
$ 
Graveling streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Adams street from Main to Bridge street.
Park street from Jackson to Canal street.
Kast street from Adams to Crescent street.
Jackson street from Main to Canal street.
Adams street from Bridge to Canal street.
Sargeant street from High to Canal street.
Hamilton street from Main to Canal street.
Cabot street from Main to Canal street.
Mosher street from Bridge to Bowers street.
Ely street from Summer to Bowers street.
‘East Dwight street from Summer to Center street.
Lyman street from Canal to Center street.
Bridge street from Canal to Mosher street.
Center street from Ely to East Dwight street.

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Bridge street from Adams to Jackson street.
Maple street from South to Dwight street.
Commercial street from Sargeant to Cabot street.
Bh street from Appleton to Essex street.
Park street from Appleton to Essex street.
Oak street, from Appleton to Essex street,
Grading John street from High to Front
street:
Labor of men and teams, 
Grading of Elm street from South street
north feet:
Labor of men and teams, 
| Grading alley of Fountain street, between
Maple and Chestnut streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Building crosswalks:
Labor of men and teams,  ,
Brick and labor, 
$ 
LOCATION OF CROSSWALKS.
One crossing South street, corner street.
One crossing street, corner South street.
One crossing Northampton street, corner street.
One crossing High street, corner Fountain street.
One crossing Fountain street, corner Maple street.
One crossing Maple street, corner Fountain street.
One crossing Appleton street, corner Elm street.
One crossing Bridge street, corner Adams street.
One crossing Main street, corner Spring street.
One crossing Race street, corner Dwight street.

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  

One crossing Race street, southerly side of Appleton
street.

One crossing Center street, northerly side of Ely
street.

One crossing Essex street, easterly side of High
street.

One crossing Summer street, southerly side of Hamilton street.

One crossing Hamilton street, westerly side of Summer street.

One crossing Bridge street, southerly side of Hamilton street.

One crossing Bh street, northerly side of Cabot
street.

One crossing Cabot street, westerly side of Bh
street.

One crossing Ely street, westerly side of East street.

One crossing East street, southerly side of Ely street.

One crossing alley between Elm and Walnut streets

Three on the intersection of Union and Fountain
streets.

Two on the intersection of Lyman and Canal streets.

One crossing alley on northerly side of Essex street,
between High and Newton streets.

One crossing alley on northerly side of Essex street,
between Maple and Chestnut streets.

One crossing alley on northerly side of Cabot street,
between Elm and Walnut streets.

One crossing alley on northerly side of Cabot street,
between Bh and Pine streets.

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
One crossing alley on northerly side of Hampshire
street, between Bh and Oak streets.
One crossing alley on southerly side of Essex street,
between Bh and Pine streets.
Relaying crosswalks:
Labor of men and teams, 
Grading Geo. Sackett’s lot cor. Northampton street and Beacon avenue:
Labor of men and teams, 
Grading Pleasant street near Highland
avenue:
Labor of men and teams, 
WORK DONE FOR PRIVATE PARTIES.
Depressing grade of Canal street at the
intersection of Lyman street for Holyoke Street R. R. Co.:
Labor of men and teams, 
Tools and tool repairs,  
One set of catch basin castings,  
Guideboards and stakes,   yards of concrete walk at  c.  
$ 
Relaying pavement on Dwight street
bridges for Holyoke Street R. R. Co.:
Labor of men and teams, 
T. J. Gibson, pitch and labor,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
WATERING STREETS.
Labor of men and teams, 
Mrs. N. Jarvis, watering-cart,  
O. Gamache, repairs on cart,  
Daniel O’Connell, watering-carts,  
Daniel O'Connell, working watering-cart,  
Mrs. M. H. Childs, working watering-cart,  
Mrs. M. H. Childs, watering-carts,  
Daily Democrat, advertising,  
Daily Transcript, advertising,  
KE. H. Friedrich, feed pipes and repairs,  
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co., feed pipes,  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works, hose
coupling,  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works, wrenches,  
E. D. Shelley, watering-cart,  
Studebaker Bros., watering-carts,  
J. A. Cleveland, repairs and neck yokes,  
Keough Carriage Co., repairs and neck yokes,  
Kennedy Sullivan, repairs,  
Geary Cahill, set neck yokes,  
T. L. Keough, repairs and set neck yokes,  
P. Geoffrion, repairs,  
C. H. Baush, repairs,  
Fenton Dunn, repairs,  
J. W. Jolly, repairs,  
Connecticut River R. R. Co., freight,  
N.Y. N.H.& H.R R. Co.. freight,  
$ 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
PAVING EXPENDITURES IN FULL.
Labor of men and teams, 
Springfield Republican, adv. for paving
blocks,  
Conn. River R. R. Co., freight,  
Hasting Asphalt Co., blocks,  
Expense of [lighway committee to Baltimore,  
New York, New Haven Hartford R. R.
Co., freight,  
D. L. Farr, express, |
Tools and tool repairs,  
C. E. Mitchell, board and expenses,  
$ 
Blocks on hand at City Yard, yds. at  
$  |
Paving laid in year of  :
On High street between Lyman and Dwight,
  yds at $ 
High Street Engine House driveway, yds.
at ,  
Emerald Engine House driveway, yds. at
$ ,  
\
SIDEWALK EXPENDITURES IN FULL.
Labor of men and teams, 
Springfield Republican,  
Mrs. M. H. Childs,  
William Dineen,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Doane Williams,  
Wall McCormick,  
Holyoke Daily Transcript,  
Holyoke Daily Democrat,  
E. Chase Sons,  
C. J. Bresnahan,  
Lynch Bros.,  
Landers Bros.,  
Geo. W. Richards,  
Casper Ranger,  
Domingue Co.,  
Michael Connors,  
Geo. D. Webb,  
John Frawley,  
Conn. River R. R. Co.,  
Whitmore Bros.,  
James E. Farrell,  
Total, 
BUILDING SIDEWALKS.

Sidewalk on easterly side of Bridge street,

between Adams and Jackson streets:
Labor of men and teams, -inch chestnut plank,  -inch chestnut stakes, feet of curbing at c,  yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 

 Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Sidewalk on easterly side of Park street,
between Adams and Jackson streets:
Labor of men and teams,  
Chestnut planks and stakes, feet of curbing at  c,   yards of brick at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on southerly side of Hamilton
street, between Race and Canal streets:
Labar of men and teams, 
Chestnut plank and stakes,   yards of concrete at  c,   yards of brick at  c,   feet of curbing, at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on easterly side of Bridge street,
between Cabot and Hamilton streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Chestnut plank and stakes, feet of curbing at  c, yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on southerly side of Mosher
street, between Center and West streets:
Labor of men and teams,  
Chestnut plank and stakes,   yards of concrete at  c, feet of curbing at  c, —.  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Sidewalk on southerly side of Fountain
street, from Union street to alley: .
Labor of men and teams, 
Chestnut plank and stakes, feet of curbing at  c, yards of brick at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on westerly side of Maple street,
between Fountain and  Prospect
streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on southerly side of Prospect
street, between Maple and Chestnut
streets:
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c, ..   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on northerly side of Prospect
street, from High to Elm street (Prospect Park):
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing (old), at  c, yards of concrete, at  c,  
$ 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Sidewalk on westerly side of Pine street,
. between Hampden and Lyman
streets :
Labor of men and teams, 
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing, at  c,.   yards of concrete, at  c,  
$  |
Sidewalk on easterly side of Oak street,
between Dwight and Suffolk streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Guideboards and stakes, feet inches of curbing, at  c,   yards of concrete, at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on southerly side of Appleton ,
street, from Oak street westerly to
alley )
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing, at  c,.   yards of concrete, at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on westerly side of Oak street
between Appleton and Essex streets :
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Sidewalk on northerly side of Essex street
from Oak street westerly to alley:
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes,   feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on easterly side of Bh street
between Essex and Cabot:
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk corner of Oak and Hampshire
streets near the premises of N. H.
Whitten:
Labor and lumber,   feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on northerly side of Franklin
street between Maple and Chestnut
streets:
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Sidewalk on northerly side of Sargeant street
between Mapleand Chestnut streets.
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes,  
| feet of curbing at  c, —..   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on northerly side of Maple street
from Franklin street north:
Labor of men and teains,  feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on westerly side of Chestnut
street from Sargeant street north:
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c, —..   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on Ely court and Center streets,
between Lyman and Ely streets
(Lyman Street School):
Labor of men and teams, 
Lumber,   yards of concrete at  c,  feet of curbing at  c,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Sidewalk on westerly sideof West street,
from Mosher street southerly:
Labor of men and teams, 
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c, yards of concrete at  c,.  
$ 
Sidewalk on John street, between High
and Front streets:
Labor of men and teams, -  feet of curbing, north side, at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,   feet of curbing, south side, at  c,   yards of concrete, south side, at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on easterly side of High street,
between Essex and Cabot streets:
Labor of men and teams,  feet of chestnut plank and stakes,   feet of curbing at  c, yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on southerly side of Hampden
street, between Elm and Walnut
streets:
Labor of men and teams, -  feet of curbing at  c, yards of brick at  c,  
$ 

|
  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Sidewalk on southerly side of Essex street
from Pine street westerly to alley:
Labor of men and teams,  
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
Sidewalk on southerly side of Lyman
street, from Front street to second
level canal bridge:
Labor of men and teams, 
Guideboards and stakes, feet of curbing at  c,   yards of concrete at  c,  
$ 
RELAYING SIDEWALKS. ,
Relaying walk on westerly side of Chestnut street between Fountain and
Prospect streets, length of walk ft.:
Labor of men and teams, 
Labor of mason and tender, yards of brick at  c,  
$ 
Relaying walk on nortnerly side of Lyman street from Maple street to alley,
between High and Maple streets,
length of walk ft.:
Labor of men and teams,  yards of brick at  hc,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Relaying walk on westerly side of Wal- nut street front of Hugh O’Connor’s
property:
Labor of men and teams, 
Labor of mason and tender, brick,  
$ 
Relaying walk on southerly side of Cabot
street from Main street to alley of
Main and Race streets:
Labor of men and teams,  
Labor of brick mason and tender,  
$ 
Relaying walk on easterly side of Main
street front of J. N. Prew’s property:
Labor of men and teams,   yards of brick at  c,  
$ 
Relaying walk on westerly side of Park
street from Sargeant to Jackson streets,
length ft.:
Labor of men and teams,   yards of brick at  c,  
Plank and stakes,  
$ 

|
  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Relaying walk on westerly side of Elm
street, corner Dwight, front of T. B.
O’Donnell’s property:
Labor of men and teams, 
Mason and tender,   brick,  
$ 
Recoating concrete walk on northerly side
of High street, from R. P. Craft’s
 block to Dwight street, length of walk
  ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
Recoating concrete walk on northerly
side of Dwight street, front of Prentiss Co’s. Wire Mills, length of
walk ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
Recoating concrete walk on north side of
Dwight street, cor. Front street, .
length of walk ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
Recoating concrete walk on westerly side
of High street, cor. Dwight street,
length of walk ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
General repairs on sidewalks:
Labor of men and teams, .S 
Sanding sidewalks:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cleaning snow off sidewalks:

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Labor of men and teams: 
Coating brick walk with concrete, on
southerly side of Cabot street, between
Park and East streets, length of walk
  ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
Coating brick walk with concrete, on westerly side of High street, from Lyman
street south ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
Coating brick walk with concrete, on westerly side of Main street, from Dwight
to Mosher street, length of walk  
ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
Coating brick walk with concrete, on
easterly side of Race street, from
Dwight to Mosher street, length of
walk ft.:
  yards of concrete at  c, 
Building cinder walks:
Labor of men and teams, 
Repairing sidewalk on Bh street, between Sargeant and Northampton
streets :
Labor of men and teams, 
Repairing sidewalk on South street, between Maple and Elm streets:
Labor of men and teams, 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Building sidewalk on Northampton street,
from the residence of A. D. Street to
the residence of C. A. Corser:
Labor of men and teams, 
Setting curbing:
Labor of men and teams, 
Landers Bros., masons,  
Mrs. M. H. Childs, cartage,  
$  |
CURBING FURNISHED TO PRIVATE PARTIES.
South street, front of Elmwood engine
house:
  feet curbing at  c, 
West side of Charles street, from South
street south:
  feet curbing at  c,  
P. H. Koehler, north side of South street:
  feet inches curbing at  c,  
C. H. Baush, north side of South street:
  feet inches curbing at  c,  
D. L. Farr, north side of street:
  feet inches curbing at  c.  
W.S. Bhing north side of street:
  feet curbing at  c,  
E. H. Potvin, east side of Northampton
street near street:
  feet curbing at  e,  
L. B. Moore. east side of Northampton
street cor. Mechanic:
  feet inches curbing at  c,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Maurice Lynch, east side of O’ Connor ave.
cor. Dwight:
  feet curbing at  c, 
L. Bellows, north side of Cabot, from
Bh street to alley:
  feet curbing at  c,  
C. T. Fay, west side of Bh street, corner
Appleton street:
' feet curbing at  c,  
J. W. Dunham, west side of Bh street
near Appleton street:
  feet of curbing at  c,  
R. W. Richards, west side of Bh street
between Suffolk and Appleton streets:
  feet curbing at  c,  
L. C. Dam, west side of Bh street, between Suffolk and Appleton streets:
  feet curbing at  c,  
A. H. Bowker, west side of Bh street
between Suffolk and Appleton streets:
  feet curbing at  c,  
Samuel Knight, west side of Bh street
between Suffolk and Appleton streets:
  feet curbing at  lodc,  
EK. H. Walker, corner of Bh and Suffolk
streets:
  feet inches curbing at  c,  
Chas. Childs,west side of Bh street between Suffolk and Appleton streets:
  feet curbing at  c,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
B. Blake, west side of Bh street between Suffolk and Appleton streets:
 feet curbing at  c,  
John Sullivan, east side of High street,
near Sargeant :
  feet curbing at  ce,  
C. A. Corser, south side of Essex street
from High street to alley :
 feet curbing at  c, !
L. C. Dam, north side of Essex street
from Newton street toalley:
  feet curbing at  c,  
L. C. Dam, west side of Newton street between Essex and Appleton streets:
  feet curbing at  c,  
J. U. Newton, west side of Newton street
between Essex and Appleton streets :
  feet inches curbing at  c,  
Mrs. S. W. Newton, west side of Newton
street between Essex and Appleton
streets:
  feet inches curbing at  c,  
Louis LaFrance, south side of Mosher
street, from Bowers street east:
  feet inches curbing at  c,  
Rev. Wm. J. Dower, east side of West
street, from Mosher street north:
  feet curbing at lode,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
B. Harribone, west side of Bh street
between Suffolk and Appleton streets:
  feet curbing at  c,  
Total, 
Total number of feet, inches.
CITY PROPERTY.
Janitor at City Hall, 
Shoveling coal at Nonotuck Street Schoolhouse:
Labor of men,  
Grading around East Dwight Street
Schoolhouse:
Labor of men and teams,  
Cartage of cinders from Mt. Tom Engine
House:
Labor of men and teams,  
Cartage of cinders from Reliance Engine
House:
Labor of men and teams,  
Cartage of cinders from schoolhouse cellars:
Labor of men and teams,  
Excavating cellar for Elmwood Engine
House:
Labor of men and teams,  
Excavating cellar for Ward Three Engine
House:
Labor of men and teams,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Excavating at Almshouse:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cartage of manure to Almshouse:
Labor of men and teams,  
SEWER EXPENDITURES IN FULL.

Labor of men and teams,  ,
Prentiss, Brooks Co., |
Perrin, Seamans Co.,  
C. H. Baush Sons,  
C. W. Rackliffe,  
Thomas F. Kegan,  
Henry Winkler, 
W.L. Bishop,  
G. E. Russell Co.,..  
M.H. Baker,  
Landers Bros.,  
Daniel O’Connell Son,  
Samuel Snell,  
Horner Machine Co.,  
Lynch Bros.  
Holyoke Daily Democrat,  
Holyoke Daily Transcript,  
J. A. Cleveland,  
City Foundry,  
Casper Ranger, 
Peter Germain,  
Chase Cooledge,  
D. E. Sullivan,  
Geo. W. Richards,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Merrick Lumber Co., 
Keough Carriage Co.,  
J. Russell Co.,  
M.A.Allen,  
C. P. Lyman,  
Total, 
SEWER EXPENDITURES IN DETAIL.
Building sewer on Commercial street from
the intersection of Worcester place to
the alley between Hampshire street
and Worcester place, thence westerly
in said alley to alley between High
and Commercial streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry,  
Manhole castings,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe, ft. of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 
Building sewer in alley of Bridge and Summer street, between Adams and Nargeant streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry,  
Manhole castings,  
Cement,  .

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Tools and lumber,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 
Extension of Taylor street sewer, from
Prentiss’ barn to house of C. P. Randall:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cement, feet of  -inch Akron pipe, |
$ 
Building sewer in Fairfield avenue, from
Pleasant street to Pearl street, thence
northerly on said Pearl street to Highland avenue: .
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry,  )
Manhole castings,  
Tools and lumber,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe, feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 
Building sewer in alley of Pineand Bh
streets, between Dwight and Hampden streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Tools and lumber,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Building sewer in alley of Fairmount
square and Linden street, from Hampshire street, northerly ft., thence
running on Hampshire street from
said alley to Linden street, thence runnig on said Linden street northerly to
property of F. Ely:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry,  
Manhole castings,  
Tools and lumber,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe, feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 
Building sewer on Commercial street, from |
Sargeant to Franklin streets :
Labor of men and teams, 
Tools and lumber,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 
Building sewer on Fairfield avenue, from
Pearl to Nonotuck streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry,  
Manhole castings,  
Tools and lumber,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets |
Building sewer in alley between Pearl and
Nonotuck streets, from Fairfield avenue, south ft.:
Labor of men and teams, 
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$  |
Extension of Appleton street trunk sewer
from Cresent street westerly to alley
between Main and Race streets:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry,  
Tools and lumber,  
Manhole castings,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  U
$ 
Extension of Linden street sewer to Suffolk street feet, thence westerly on
said Suffolk street to property of
Casper Ranger, ft.:
Labor of men and teams, 
Masonry,  
Manhole castings,  
Tools and lumber,  
Cement,   feet of  -inch Akron pipe,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
Building trunk sewer on Mosher street
from Canal street to the river:
Labor of men and teams,  
: Daily Democrat,  
Daily Transcript,  
Casper Ranger,  
City Foundry,  
EK. Chase Sons,  
Baker, Cavanaugh Verrill,  
Watson Ely Son,  
C. H. Baush Sons,  
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co.,  
Merrick Lumber Co.,  
J. Russell Co.,  
Frank A. Rivers,  
$ 
Extension of Mosher street sewer from
Canal street to Bridge street, thence
southerly to East Dwight street,
thence westerly to Center street:
Labor of men and teams, 
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co.,  
Casper Ranger,  
C. H. Baush Sons,  
Baker, Cavanaugh Verrill,  
$ 
Repairs on Front street sewer :
Labor of men and teams, 
W. L. Bishop,  
Daily Democrat,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
Daily Transcript, 
C. H. Baush Sons,  
Sears Co., 
J. Russell Co.,  
Casper Ranger,  
Watson Ely Son,  
EB. Chase Son, |
Merrick Lumber Co., |
Thomas F. Kegan,  
Holyoke Coal and Wood Co.,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
P. J. Gilligan,  
Landers Bros.,  
Baker, Cavanaugh Verrill,  
Peter Holl,  
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co.,  
$ 
Repairs on Jackson street sewer :
Manhole built by Holyoke Water Power
Co.:
Labor of men and teams, 
C. H. Baush Sons, castings,  
$ 
Building catch-basins, 
Cement and Akron pipe,  
Catch-basin grates and frames,  
Masonry,  
Tool repairs,  
$ 

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  
LOCATION OF OATCH-BASINS.
One on corner of Commercial street and Worcester
place. |
One on corner of Sargeant street and Commercial
street. ,
One on corner of Cabot street and Commercial street.
Two on corner of James street and Springfield road.
One on corner of Mosher street and East street.
Two on corner of Hamilton street and Summer street.
One on corner of Cabot street and Maple street.
One on Commercial street between alley and Plymouth place.
Five on Lincoln street between Pearl and Northampton streets. |
Two at the intersection of Elm and Fountain streets.
Two at the intersection of Walnut and Hampden
streets.
One on Northampton street front of ‘‘Home School.”
One in alley of Main and Park streets between
Adams and Jackson streets.
Two in alley of Bridge and Summer streets between
Cabot and Hamilton streets.
One in alley of West and Center streets rear of East
Dwight Street School:
| One in alley of Main and Race streets between Hamilton and Sargeant streets.
Five at the intersection of Fairfield avenue and Nonotuck street. —
Cleaning catch basins:
Labor of men and teams, 

  Report of Superintendent of Streets. |
|
Cleaning sewer:
Labor of men and teams, 
WORK DONE FOR PRIVATE PARTIES. .
J. F. Sullivan:
Cleaning sewer connection, 
Henry D. Allyn:
Sewer connection,  |
R. B. Holmes:
Sewer connection, 
Lyman Mills:
Resetting curbing on Lyman street, 
Lyman Mills:
Relaying paving on Lyman street, 
George Sackett:
Sewer connection, 
Rev. P. H. Phalen:
Akron pipe and sewer connection, 
INVENTORY OF PROPERTY ON HAND.
  street sweepers,   business wagon,   horses,   harness,  .CO
  derrick,   feet of Akron sewer pipe, sets of catch-basin castings, sets of catch-basin grates, lanterns,   picks with handles, hand saws,  

|

Report of Superintendent of Streets.  

|

  Ciuss-cut saws,  |

  Edson pumps with lengths of hose,  

  street hoes, |

  long-handled shovels, |

  catch-basin patterns,  

  grub hoes,   wooden mauls,  

  iron mauls, mason hammers and trowels,  
§ wheelbarrows,   sledge hammers,   iron rammers,   stone hammers,   paving-block hammers, cobble-stone hammers, spike hammers,   iron rake,   snow-shovels,  
Stone drills and points, lumber trucks,   crowbars,.  long bars,   hydrant and hose wrenches, pounders and tampers,. axes,  
Chains and ropes,   water pails,   catch-basin hook,  
Crosswalk patterns, jack-screws,   steel wedges,  

  Report of Superintendent of Streets.
  steel caps,   |
  manure forks, |
  adzes,   augurs,   ice chisels,   oil cans,   paving brooms,  
Iron bridge-hangers, set of chain blocks,   square,   set of bits and bit stock, kegs of spikes,  
Paint brushes,   hods,   City stamp,   tool boxes,  
Sewer dredger and rigging, plows,   road machines,  
Boring drills and rigging, small scrapers,  ).  pair of rubber boots, gurden spades,   mortar beds,   stone crusher,   snow plows,   hand plane,   saw set and screw driver, step ladders,   monkey wrenches, Co small vises,  

Report of Superintendent of Streets. bridge wrench,   hose nozzle,   set of granite catch-basin corners, street signs,   street corner stones, feet of curbing,   feet of sewer lumber,  
Cobble stone,   grindstone,   claw hammers,   brush cutter,   six-ton road roller,   watering-carts,  
$ 
In Board of Aldermen, Dec. .
Read by its title and accepted.
T. D. O’BRIEN, |
Clerk. :
Sent to Common Council for concurrence.
In Common Council, Dec. .
CONCURRED:
J. F. STAPLETON,
Clerk.

|
Report of Overseers of the Poor.
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Council of the City
of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN :—Herewith find the seventeenth annual
report of the Board of Overseers of the Poor for the year
ending November .

You will find it much more extensive than usual, on
account of the Almshouse, yet its length does not necessarily enlarge the total footings. The first year at the
Almshouse is of course the most costly, but careful
comparison of this report with those of former years will
show that, even including the purchase of live stock,
farming implements and building materials (for farm
buildings), the pauper account is no larger than usual.
Affairs are in as flourishing condition as the most sanguine could hope for.

The out-door poor are as numerous as ever, and much
of this is due to desertions of families by the fathers.
We have found good homes for thirty-two children during the year, fact which necessitated much travel in
the surrounding districts, but which will result to the
ultimate profit of both the children and the city.

In the detailed report of ‘‘State paupers’’ and those
belonging to ‘other towns’’, which we credit our
accounts with the whole amount, yet we do not always

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
receive what we charge, as some of the different cases
may at the time of making our report belong to ‘‘ other
towns”? or to the ‘‘State’’, apparently, while future !
research would place them on the city, where they properly belong. These cases however are very rare.

Following is the report:
INSANE AND FEEBLE-MINDED.
Ann Ward,  
John Fitzgerald,  
Johanna Brennan,  
Thomas McCarthy,  
Ellen Sullivan, ok  
Celia King,  
Patrick Donaliue  
Jeremiah Sullivan  th,  
Ellen Hannifin,  
Sarah Quint,  
Bernard A. Murray,  
Matilda Frei,  
Mary Shea,  
Hannah Keough,  )
Catherine Sullivan,  
John J. O’ Brien,  
Mary Geehan,  
Hanorah Buckley,  
Elizabeth Falvey,  
Peter J. Fallon,  
Catherine O’ Brien,  
Maurice Shea,  
Catherine M. Cleary,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.
Mary Manning, 
Mary Mullen,  
Pauline Barrett,  
Mrs. Louisa Davis,  
John Shea,  
Hannah Manning, Co,  
Leon B. Ellis,  .
Frank E. Bartlett,  
Michael Donohue,  
Emma Burns,  
Mary Mooney,  
Margaret Connor,  
Mary Nolan,  
Patrick Nolan,  
John Costello,  
Daniel Donnelly,  
Mary Fitzgerald,  
Mary Mackey,  
Margaret Hogan,  
Addie P. Ernest,  
Richard Powers,  
Henry Duhaime,  
Milan P. Warren,  
Mary Powers,  
Mary Callo,.  
$ 
CITY OUT-DOOR POOR.
Michael Shea’s children, 
Philip Bright,  
Mrs. Thomas Flynn,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Ann Finn,  
Eddie Finn,  
Willie Cushing,  
Willie Beals,  
Annie Donohue,  
Mrs. Ann Kane,  
Eliza Costello,  
Mary Connor, ‘‘Carmody,”’  
Bridget Higgins,  
Mrs. Chas. Graham,  
Johanna O’ Donnell,  
Mrs. James Reilley,  
Johanna Ash,  
Mrs. Patrick Dowd,  
Mrs. Florence Moriarty,  
Mrs. Andrew Butterman,  
Richard Murphy,  
Mrs. Gus Parker,  
Caroline Allen,  
Mrs. Henry Lebombard,  
Mrs. Frank Yartin,  
Peter Cummings,  
Elizabeth Juneau,  
Cath. Leonard,  
Mrs. F. B. Pierce,  
Johanna Shea,  
Sarah Gallagher,  
Johanna Cavanaugh,  
Mary Sullivan  d,  
Mrs. John Curtin,  
Mary Connor, ‘‘ McCarthy,”’  

 Report of Overseers of the Poor.
Mrs. Louisa Lapine,  
Mrs. Morris Kane,  
Nellie Riley,  
Mrs Wm. Sullivan  d,  
Thomas Connor (cripple), Lo  
Mrs. Michael Moriarty, |
Daniel O’ Brien,  
Mrs. J. F. McGeran and family,  
Mrs. John H. Sullivan,  
Bridget Gadegan, OU
Mrs. Patrick Sheehan,  
Mrs. Jerry Sullivan,  
Mary Foley, ‘‘Sullivan,”  
Mrs. Ed Danibhy,  
Margaret Golden,  
Emilie Moratt,  
Catharine Garrity,  
Ellen Nocton,  
Mrs. Dan Hanlon,  
Bridget Barrett,  
John Monty and family.  
Catharine Maroney,  
Margaret Connor,  
Mary Marra,  
Nicholas Stewart,  
Hanorah Rohan,  
Mary Rohan,  
Nellie Anderson,  
Mrs. Mike Ryan,  
Mat Hennessy’s boy,  
Mary Quirk,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  

Mrs. Mike Brennan,  
Mary Hussey,  
Theresa Kane,  
Mrs. Arthur Pelton,  
Ellen Murphy,  
Sundry account (tramps, etc.),  
Ellen O’ Brien,  
Mrs. Alfred Arnott,  
Maud Mercure,  
Mrs. John J. Sullivan,  
Johanna McDonnell,  
Ellen Hussey,   
Eliza Rogers,  
Mrs. Thomas Griffin,  
Mrs. Andrew Kennedy,  
Joseph Myers,  
Mrs. Mike Kane,  
. Johanna Connor, Dam,”  )
Mrs. John Griffin,  
Overseers of Poor,  
Ellen Moran,  
Mrs. Joseph Barre,  
Mrs. Balthazar Laroche,  
Mrs. John Ludwig,  
Bridget Connor,  
Mary ‘‘Nihilly’’ Rohan,  
Henry Shubart,  
Mrs. Jeannette Renfrew,  
Wm. Shea’s children,  
Margaret Rohan,  
Ellen McFadden,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.
Mrs. J. Healey,  
Mrs. Chas. Dow,  
Mary McNulty,  
Mrs. Louis Patnaude,  
Mrs. Louis Fourgette,  
John Connor, Adams street,  
Mrs. John Mannix, |
Mrs. Alex..Duhaime,  
Kate Doran,  
Mrs Bridget Wells,  
Johanna Sullivan,  
Belline Josslyn,  
Hannah Kerr,  
Geo. Connor’s family,  
Johanna Connor, ‘‘Doyle’’,  
Frank Otto,  
Mrs. Ann Walsh,  
Mrs. Thomas Moriarty,  
Michael Scully,  
Ann Callahan,  
Bridget Moriarty,  
William J. Lewis, oo,  
Johanna Murray,  
Mrs. Jerry Mannix,  
John Casey,  
Margaret O’ Donnell,  
Ellen Spillane,  
Mrs. Daniel Cavanaugh,  
Hannah Fitzgerald,  
James Barry,  
Mary Short,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  

Mrs. Robert Robinson, 
Daniel Hayes,  
Samuel Barnie,  
Gotliebe Heber,  
James Cahill,  
Mrs. Eli Monty,  
Matilda Laplante,  Hannah Moriarty, —. 
Rose Leonard,  
Mrs. John Scanlon,  
Ellen Hickey,  
Melvina Prevost,  
Mary Casey,  
Mrs. Edward Moriarty,  
James Kennedy,  
Thomas Sullivan,  
Christopher Norton,  
Julius Morancy,  
Bridget Moore,  
Mrs. Stephen Kearnes,  
Johanna O’Connell,  
Mrs. Patrick McCarthy,  
Mitchell Lecomb,  )
 Mrs. Edward Baker,  
John Casey,  
Elizabeth Butterfield,  
Henry Poyar,  
Mrs. James McGee,”  
Kate Connor,  
Joseph Perron,  
Pierre Gagnon,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.

Jerry Healey and family,  
Mrs. Thomas Nadeau,  
Hattie Tourtellotte,  
John Flynn,  
Pascal Payette,  
Joseph Lefont,  
Mrs. Frederiza Hamelin,  
Johanna Garvey, |
Michael Carey,  
Mrs. Archie Murray,  
Mrs. Mike Curtin,  
Wm. Lally,  
Mrs. Carroll Swanson,  
Mary Bowler,  
Owen Fenton,  
Mrs. John Vaughan,  
Patrick Garvey,  
James Buchanan,  
Clarence Smith,  
Phelias Duclos, 
Timothy Sullivan,  
Mrs. Jerome Turgeon, 
Michael Williams, —.  
Eugene Fenton, .
Sylvester Sullivan,  
James Powers,  
Dolphus Poisson,  
Theophilus Morancy,  
Mary Spelman,  
Willie Bell,  
Agnes McCabe,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  

Mary Clifford, 
August Myers,  
Mrs. Michael Connor,  
Thomas Sullivan,  
James Kennedy,  
Mrs. Emma Stoltz,  
Mrs. Evariste Meunier,  
Mrs. John Shea and family,  
Mrs. Ettore Parcello,  
Mary Barnett,  
Pauline Lebard, 
Mrs Eugene O’Neil, OU
Michael Lyons,  
, Joseph Farr,  
Richard Earle,  
Christiana Muans,.”  
“Mrs McDonough,  
Mrs. Richard Ludden,  
Mrs. Joe Manning,  
Hanorah Sullivan,  
Michael Hoolihan,  
Bridget Dullard,  
Mrs. Joseph Ross (ret’d), ..  
Margaret Weir,  
Mrs. James McDonnell,  
Peter Reagan,  
Mrs. Mike Lynch,  
Mrs. Morris Mahany,  
Bridget O’ Brien, Co,  
William E. Hall,  
John O'Neil,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.
Catherine Sheehan,  
Delia Kirby,  
Jeremiah Mahany,  
Mrs. Ambrose,  
John Kaney,  
James Butler,  
Daniel Gray,  
Patrick Sullivan,  
Albina King,  
William Hebart,  
Hanorah Gavin,  
$ 
PAUPERS BELONGING TO OTHER TOWNS, SUPPORTED BY
TILE CITy.
Thomas Sullivan and wife, :
C. M. Burleigh,  
Thomas Bresnahan,  
Margaret Sullivan, —. QO
Mary Cutting,  
Margaret Grady,  
Mrs. Terence Fox and children,  
Mary McNally,  
James Gillespie, to |
Margaret Duggan,  
Josephine Geoghan,  
Mrs. George Clark,  
Charles Chalmers,  ).  
Thomas Gebney,  
Mike Ward,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Mrs. Moses Purrington, 
Ellen McCombs, 
Mrs. Louis White,  
James Fox,  
Mrs. John Gleason  
Theodore Spring,  
Kate Cavanaugh,  
Mrs. Michael Maher,  
Peter Frazier,  
Richard Barry,  
Mrs. James Henrity,  
Hanorah Moriarty and child,  
John Lombard, 
Fall River case (refunded),  
James Dawling,  
$ 
Petty cases,  
$ 
STATE PAUPERS AIDED BY THE OITY.
Johanna Cahillaus,.  
John Percival and wife,  
John McCarthy and wife,  
Mrs. Geo. Campbell,  
Kate Crean,  
Ellen Mahoney,  
Thomas Reed and wife,  
Adelia Bernier,  
Jerry Foley,  
Mrs. Thomas Landry,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.

Joseph Rosso,  
Bridget Fitzgerald,  
John Bean,  
Patrick Gaywood,  
Michael Kerrigan,  
Edward Moriarty,  
Eliza Daley,  
Louis Leventure,  )
Mrs. Carl Swartz,  
Chas. W. Stone,  
Stephen White,  
Mrs. John Brinkman,  
Joseph Duprez,  
Mrs. Samuel Geer,  
John Donahue,  
Mrs. Jos. Picard,  
Christian Payette,  
Patrick Barrett,  
Mrs. Patrick Keough,  
William Shea, ‘‘ Bundle,’’  
Timothy Connor,  
Mrs. Con. Moriarty,  
Louis Brunelle,  
Mrs. Verdon,  
Arthur McGuirk,  
Martin Fitzgerald,  
Mrs. Isaac Foster,  
Rose Lavalle,  
John Shea,  
Michael Donahue,  
Mrs. Michael Sullivan,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Michael Cassidy,  
Ellen Caulfield,  
Mary Ann Williams,  
E. D. McDonnell,  
Edward Dorval,  
Louis Bourgette,  
Sophia Sardenac,  
Abbie Foley,  
Mrs. James Simpson,  
David Fitzgerald,  
Mrs. Martha McLaughlin,  
Martin G. Key,  
Mrs. Henry Smith, 
Louis Boulanger,  
Kate Spotleff,  
Francis Dedrick,  
Mrs. Fred Gemme,  
Timothy Callahan,  
Thomas McGovern,  
Wm. Provost, ..  
Roman Whitlock,  
Miss Abbie McKiernan,  
Narcisse Dumas,  
David Streuthers,  
Joseph Rivers,  
Geo. Bishop,  
Mrs. J. K. J. Foggatt,  
John Moynahan,  
Thomas Pratt,  
Mrs. Mercier,  
Elizabeth McDonnell,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.
Thomas Grano, 
John Cook, 
John Castongin,  
Thomas Daley,  
Isabella Mansley,  
Bridget Ore,  
Alexander Devon,  
Malvina Bussiero,  
Louis Valencour, ..  
Wm. Carter,  
Thomas King,  
Napoleon Lebarte,  
Mrs. Valentine Vigneaux,  
$ 

SUMMARY.
Insane, . 
City Paupers,  
Other Towns,  
State Paupers,  
| 
BILLS APPROVED.

John E. Burleigh,  
Bridget Gadegan,  
Bridget Barrett,  
James O’ Leary,  
Jaines S. Davis,  
Dennis Herbert,  
Johanna Connor, ‘* Dam,’  
Mrs. J. McGuan,  
Joseph St. Pierre, 

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Mrs. Louis Patneault, 
Ellen Moran,  
Mary Connor, ‘‘Carmody,”’  
Margaret Hennessy,  
Johannah Shea, —
Margaret Grady,  
Jeremiah Duody,  
Val Moquin,  
City of Chicopee,  
Town of Holden,  
Ulric Perreault,  
C.M. Cleary,  
Richards Thayer,  
Burkhardt Sons,  
George Bray,  P. Bonvouloir, Jr,  
John O’ Donnell,  
Daniel Sullivan,  
J. K. McCarthy,  
T. J. Dillon,  
James J. Dowd, |
J. J. Callanan,  
Judge Bros.,  
Sisters of Charity,  
Michael McIntee,  
P. J. Gilligan,  
C. D. Geran,  
Thomas  Childs,  
Alvin Burros,  
P. Shea,  
C. C. Connor,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.

L. Sears Co.,  

A. F. Gingras,  

Sears Co.,  

T. F. Greaney,  

John Ford,  

Westborough Insane Hospital,  

S. King,  

J. F. F. McDonnell,  

Taunton Lunatic Hospital,  

A. T. Tuttle Son,  

C. C. Hastings,  

John B. Laroche,  

James Doyle Co.,  

Lennahan Co., to,  
Overseers of the Poor,  
M. J. Griffin,  

George Washington,  

City of Lawrence, oof  
P. J. Tetrault,  

Town of Marlborough,  
M. J. Finn,  
Northampton Insane Hospital,  
John O’ Connell,  
Frank Menard,  
Jos. Beauchemin,  
Patrick O’ Neil,  
City of Northampton,  
James Fitzsimmons,  
H. W. Cooley, Looe  
M. F. Walsh,  
C.R. Huebler,  

|

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  

W. A. Chase, 
City of Pittsfield,  
City of Salem,  
Feeble-Minded School,  
Woscester Insane Hospital,  
James Cowan,  
Town of Palmer,  
Commonwealth of Mass.,  
Theodore Spamer,  
Curran Brothers,  
Anthony McLean,  
Smith Mfg. Co.,  
Price, Lee Co.,  
Griffith, Axtell Cady,  
Geo. Monat, ..  
Bridget Higgins,  
Transcript Pub. Co.,  
Town of Northfield,  
City of Springfield,  
T. Marra,  
James Crawford,  
A. L. Quint,   
Mrs. Mary Cavanaugh,  
Clark Richards,  
South Hadley Falls,  
Town of Hampden,  
J. A. O’ Donnell,  
Julian Coiteux,  
R. A. Dickinson,  
John Dillon,  
E. F. Osborn,  

|

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.
John M. O’Connor,  
T. F. Ryan,  
John Viger,  
Alphonse Lafrance,  
City of Fall River,  
Holyoke Coal and Wood Co.,  
Town of W. Boylston,  
G. Coulombe,  
Mrs. Jerry Mahany,  
Wm. Leary,  
Cornelius Healey,  
D. E. Sullivan,  
S.  Collins,  
Joseph Dupont,  
Geo.  Young, 
Rev. P. J. Harkins,  
Mary Rohan,  
Theinert Co.,  
Mrs. John Fenton,  
Napoleon Aubertin,  
| Mrs. John Shea,  
City of Worcester,  
Eureka Printing Co.,  
Edward Fitzgerald,  
Michael Moriarty,  
Town of Ashland,  
A. Bessette,  
Michael Mannix,  
Dr. Menard,  
Monat Bros.,  
John Heinritz,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Dr. F. Patoel,  
J. Heinritz Son,  
M. W. Tucker, 
Felix McCabe,  
Town of Westfield,  
Bridget McGrath,  
J. N. Prew,  
David McCormick,  
Fred Savoy,  
John Connor,  
David Collins,  
Ryan Schindler,  
City of Lowell,  
John Walker,  
Mrs. J. P. Kennedy.  
Mrs. Geo. Clark, |
James O’ Donnell,  
E. Bolton,  
George Spamer,  
A. Landry,  
Emma Jumian,  
$ 
ALMSHOUSE REPORT.
BILLS APPROVED.
Petty accounts,  
New England Telephone Co.,  
Patrick McKenna,  
William A. Judd and wife,  
Thomas Slaven,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.

Kate Kane, 
Patrick Salmon,  
Geo. W. Kellogg, 
Mary Kirley,  
Mary Dower, DO  
Jane O’Brien,  
Haynes Miller,  ,
Lemuel Sears Co.,  
Tim Callahan,  
M. Callahan,  
Transcript Publishing Co.,  
Chase Cooledge,  
M. J. Griffin,  
Charles H. Cleary,  
J. F. Sullivan,  
M. J. Finn,  
Casper Ranger,  
Daniel Proulx,  
C. B. Davis,  
S. T. Miller,  
G. C. Lawrence,  
G. E. Russell Co.,  
Fenton Dunn,  
J.T. Hunter,  
Thos.  Childs,  
David Mahaffy,  
James Casey,  
C. H. Baush,  
J. Russell Co.,  
James Leonard,  
K. H. Howland,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Potter Bros. Co., 
Sullivan, Carmody Wesely,  
Richard Shea,  
M. L. Wright,  
Jos. Mercier,  
J. B. Bishop Co.,  
J. J. Callanan,  
Wylie Co.,  
Wm. B. Whiting Co,  
Geo. Twaddle,  
Laporte Bros.,  
Frank Menard,  
Clark Richard,  
Julia Carroll,  
Thomas Hall,  
L. Cavanaugh Co.,  
A. H. Ryan,  
H. N. Farnum,  
Mike O’ Leary,  
Besse, Mills Co., ..  
D. F. Landers,  
St. Marie Charest,  
W.H. Abbott,  
John B. Laroche,  (). 
C. Lyman,  
Democrat Publishing Co.,  .
George S. Young,  
Jer. Leary,  
Toomey Shea,  
John E.  Kellogg,  
Peter Freeman,  

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.
George L. Bosworth. 
Merrick Lumber Co  
John J. Casey,  
Morris Ely,  
J. H. Carpenter, |
Collis Roberts,  
O’ Neill Bros.,  
Roland Oakes,  
R. Dickinson,  
A. I. Gingras,  
M. A. Allen,  
Kennedy Sullivan,  
Dr. M. O'Connell,  )
Thomas  Childs,  
P. J. Gilligan,  
Potter Nash,  
L. C. H. Plumtree,  
Azela Verdon,  
Prentiss, Brooks Co..  
S. B. Allyn Co,  C
W. A. Wilkinson,  
$ 
RECKIPTS FROM SUNDRY SOURCES.
Board employes Springtield Felting Co., 
Board Edward Dorval,  
Calf skin,  
Board Edward Dorval,  
Board Antoine Elinger,  
Calf skin,  

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Cow hide,  
Sold pigs at  
Received from M. H. Whitcomb for board
of Patrick Nolan, §. 
$ 
Amount paid out, 
Receipts,  
$ 
Buard Patrick Shannon’s wife,  
Actual expense, 
Amount paid for stock, farming tools, etc.,  
$ 
Probable expense for the year if there were no stock
and tools to purchase. This would make the cost per
week of each inmate (including wages of help, etc.),
$ .
Number of inmates Dec. ),  
Number received,  
Number discharged,  
’ Number of inmates Dec.  
Two persons (men) have died at the house, and two
have left without permission.
The general health at the house has been very good.
The warden reports the following products viz.: tons
hay; bushels potatoes; bushels corn; bushels
turnips; heads cabbage; besides other vegetables.

  Report of Overseers of the Poor.

The farm hands have built during the season yards
of wire fence.

The house now has horses; cows; hogs; young
pigs; harness, wagons and farming tools enough for
present needs.

The prospects for next year are very bright, as the
farm will have plenty of fertilizing material to enrich the
land and at small expense, and can in all probability
raise all the vegetables necessary for use at the house.

FINAL SUMMARY.
BILLS APPROVED.

Dr. :

Out-door poor, 
Almshouse,.  
$ 

Cr.

 Eliza King (refunded), $$  
State pauper account,  
Other towns account,  
Almshouse receipts,  
Board Mrs Sammons,  
Mrs. Joseph Ross,  

$  
Net amount paid for City paupers, 
Respectfully submitted,
| RICHARD GILDAY,
THOMAS O'DONNELL,
A. F. GINGRAS,
Overseers of Poor.

Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
In Board of Aldermen, Dec. .
Read by its title and accepted.
T. D. O'BRIEN,
Clerk.
Sent to Common Council for concurrence.
In Common Council, Dec. .
CONCURRED: :
J. F. STAPLETON,
Clerk.

Digitized by Google

TWENTIETH ANNUAL
OF THE
WATHR: BOARD
HOLYOKE, MASS.
 .
es aig OS)
 “SAG
O  Biome,
ge Pay
\OuldRLYOREAY
“Gare o
HOLYOKE, MASS. :
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CO., PRINTERS.
ley.

HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.
OFFFICERS FOR  .
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
MAURICE LYNCH, MOSES NEWTON,
JAMES J. CURRAN.

WATER REGISTRAR.

E. P. CLARK.
SUPERINTENDENT.

JOHN D. HARDY.
INSPECTORS.

JAMES F. CLEARY.

THOMAS E. SULLIVAN.
FOREMAN OF PIPE WORK.

JOHN O'BRIEN.

Report of Water Board.
To the Honorable, the City Council of the City of
Holyoke:

The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully
preseut the following as their report for the year ending
December .

RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
RECEIPTS.
Balance from  
Water rents,  
Interest on Meters,  
Service pipe,  
Interest on monthly balances,  
From all other sources,  
—————  
EXPENDITURES.
Main pipe extensions, 
Service pipe extensions,  
Main pipe repairs,  
Service pipe repairs,  
Hydrants,  

  Report of Water Board.

Reservoirs,  

Interest on Water Bonds, 

Supervision and inspection, 
Meters,  

Barn,  

Shop,  

Office,   

Land Damages,  

Sinking Fund,  

For all other purposes,  

Casb on hand,  

————— 
HoLtyokk, December .

I hereby certify that have examined the Cash Book
of the Board of Water Commissioners for the year
ending December and find it correctly footed,
and the disbursements sustained by approved vouchers,
and the balance of cash on hand to be which is
made up as follows:

Balance in Holyoke National Bank, 
Bank Bills,  
Coin, oF  
$ 

(Signed) CHARLES T. PLIMPTON,
Examining Auditor.

Report of Water Board.  

Early in the year after careful consideration it was
decided to make another reduction in the water rates,
and in accordance with this decision vote was passed
reducing all rates twenty per cent. from April Ist,
except rates for metered water, and allowing discount
of ten per cent. from the new rates on quarterly bills
paid during the first two months of each quarter. Anew
rule was adopted allowing abatements for vacancies of
one month, not including fractions of month, provided
notice is given at the office of the Water Board within
three days of the beginning and also of the ending of
such vacancy, otherwise such abatement will not be
allowed. This last reduction makes our net water rates
extremely low, and we know of no other city, with
possibly one exception, where water is supplied to the
people at such low rates.

For two or three years past during high water the condition of the dam at the outlet of Ashley pond has been
such as to make it evident that quite extensive repairs
would soon be necessary, but after careful examination
last summer, it was deemed unwise to further postpone
action and orders were given to begin the work without
delay. The work was done under the supervision of
the Superintendent, in thorough manner during low
water, at an expense of about one thousand dollars, by
digging trench along the lower side of and considerably
lower than the foundation of the dam, and pouring into
it cement mixed toa proper consistency, and on this
foundation wall of masonry and concrete was carried
up on the face of the dam adding two feet to its thickness.
Brace walls were then built on each side of the overflow

  Report of Water Board.

abutting against the dam and running to the culvert
under the highway, and the apron of the overflow
between the walls was laid in concrete. The highway
was raised for distance of several hundred feet, and as a
protection to the work, gravel was filled in against the
face of the dam to point near its top and sloped back
to the highway. The whole work forms compact,
impervious addition to the dam, which, we believe,
makes it strong enough to stand any pressure it may be
subjected to.

The dike at the lower end of Ashley pond and the
highway along the northwesterly side of Wright’s pond
were each raised about one foot.

During the fall, advantage was taken of the extremely
low water to clean up the shores of the ponds by removing the brush, stumps, tufts of grass and muck where it
could be done. This work has been carried on for the
past two months and the results are extremely gratifying
viewed from any standpoint.

Upon representation by the Mayor and Chief Engineer
of the Fire Department, that better fire protection was
needed in High Street, we carefully considered the matter
and decided to re-inforce the  -inch main in the street by
laying line of  -inch pipe in Hampden street from
Pine to High street and another line of  -inch pipe in
Suffolk street from Walnut to High street, and to set
additional fire hydrants at intermediate points in High
Street. Wecommenced the work and laid the  -inch
main in Hampden Street, setting fire hydrants as needed
along the line, and put in additional fire hydrants in
High street at the following points: Opposite Oliver

Report of Water Board.  
street, at the northwesterly corner of High and Hampden
streets; at the southeasterly corner of High and Hamp.
den streets and at point nearly opposite Jolin street. At
this juncture we were obliged to stop the work and indefinitely postpone laying the  -inch main in Suffolk Street
on account of the strike in the Holyoke Hydrant and Iron
Works which prevented our obtaining fire hydrants for
setting along the line as the pipe was laid, but we hope
to be able to put in this main early next season.

In Mav the City began using the fire hydrants for filling their watering carts with water. As this department
has to provide, locate and Keep in order the public fire
hydrants, we felt it to be our duty to protest against
their use for this purpose, as we believed it would result
in serious injury to them, and if such use was persisted
in we desired to thus relieve ourselves of any responsibility for what might result therefrom. In making our
protest we offered to put in stand pipes at convenient
points for filling the watering carts if they would stop
using the fire hydrants, but it was useless; our offer was
not accepted and our protest was unheeded until some
forty hydrants were found to be out of order as the
result of such use and notice was received from the fire
underwriters that unless the use of public fire hydrants
for filling watering carts with water was stopped there
would be an advance in our insurance rates; then we
were requested to renew our once rejected offer and put
inthe stand pipes so that the further use of hydrants
could be stopped. As this was just what we had at first
proposed to do we gladly acceded to the request and
have thus far located and put in twenty-three new stand
pipes.

  Report of Water Board.

Settlement has been effected in two cases on account
of land taken for the Whiting Street brook storage reservoir, by paying C. Judson Crafts one hundred forty-three
and dollars, ($ ), for five and three-quarters
acres of land, and Linus D. Crafts one hundred and five
dollars, ($ .), for four and one-fifth acres of land.

At the beginning of April it was estimated that our
supply of water was gallons greater than ever
before. The ponds and the new storage reservoir on
Whiting Street brook were full to overflowing, the waste
water from the latter running away ina stream feet
wide and inches deep for several weeks, and it seemed
as though we would go through the summer and fall and
have large surplus for winter use, even though we had
adry summer. Notwithstanding we gradually increased
the amount drawn from the new storage reservoir, the
water in the ponds continued to fall until the middle of
September, when it becanie evident that measures would
have to be taken to check its use, otherwise we would
soon find ourselves short of water, unless the supply was
increased by copious rains. Accordingly at our request
the sprinkling of streets was discontinued except Main
and High streets, and Dwight street between Main and
Maple streets, the use of all kinds of hose, rotary sprinklers and fountains forbidden, careful inspection of fixtures was made to stop leaks, and rigid economy in the
use of water was enjoined on all.

The water continued to fall until December  when
measurements in the gate house at Wright’s pond showed
a depth of only five feet five inches of water, which was
the lowest point noted and only five inches above what

Report of Water Board.  
is considered as the safety point, and the storage reservoir had been drawn upon until point had been reached
beyond which it was not deemed advisable to go under
the existing conditions. From December  owing to |
frequent and heavy rains, the supply in the reservoirs
began to slowly increase and in like ratio our anxiety
decreased. Thus ended the nearest approach to failure of our water supply since the memorable winter of
  and  and our escape from the dangers and discomforts attending short supply of water was due to

. the large additional amount furnished by the new storage reservoir on Whiting Street brook.

This year’s experience shows us that with our reservoirs
full of waterin the spring, we cannot pass through an
extremely dry summer and fall without approaching
dangerously near the limit of our supply and with our
present supply, if the reservoirs should not fill: during
the winter and spring, and next season should be dry, a
contingency not at all improbable, our condition would
be extremely critical.

Under the favorable conditions which have prevailed
for the past four or five years we have had an abundant
supply of water, but the fact that the favorable condi- 
tions will be sucded by unfavorable, and that there is
a large increase in the consumption each year, must be
considered and provision made for supply adequate
to our needs during succession of dry seasons.

  Report of Water Board.
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
Cost reported Dec. 

Increase during the year:

Main pipe extensions, 
Hydrants  
Meters  
Reservoirs, 
Land damages,  

———— 

Total, 

The cast-iron mains were extended feet. For

location, size and length of extensions see table A.

The length of cast-iron mains is miles feet, and
of temporary wrought-iron mains miles feet, making the total length of the supply mains miles  
feet. For location, size and length of mains see tables
B and C.

Twenty-four gates of various sizes were set in new
locations. ‘The total number to date is  For size and
location see tables and E.

Nineteen hydrants were set in new locations. The
total number of public fire hydrants is  For location,
etc., see tables Fand G. Following table is summary of the fire service in the various mills in the city,
which is additional to the above.

Six meters were set in new locations, making the total
number in use to date,  For make, size and location
see table H.

One hundred and twenty-three service pipe connections
were added and nineteen discontinued during the year,
leaving the total number in use to date,  .

Report of Water Board.  

Twenty-three stand-pipes for the use of watering carts
were put in, making the total number  For location
see table K.

Three watering troughs have been put in during the
year as follows: near the corner of Dwight and Pleasant
streets, Maple and Cabot streets and Canal and Bridge
streets, (north).

Five leaks in mains and fifteen in service pipes have
been repaired. |

SINKING FUND.

As trustees of the Sinking Fund for the payment of
the Holyoke Water Bonds, we make the following report
for the year:

Amount reported Dec. 

Increase during the year :

Accrued interest on investments, 
Int. on bal. in Hol. Nat'l] Bank,  
Set apart during the year,  
——-— 
Total,  
INVESTMENTS.
Holyoke City Bonds, 
Holyoke National Bank (temporary),  
Holyoke Savings Bank, 
Peoples Saving Bank,  
Mechanics Savings Bank,  
Loans on real estate (first mortgage),  
Total, 

  Report of Water Board.
: HotyokF, Dec. .
[hereby certify that have this day examined the
Bonds, Notes, Bank Books and other securities held by
the Board of Water Commissioners as Sinking Fund
for the payment of Holyoke Water Bonds, and find they
amount to one hundred and forty thousand, six hundred
and twenty-four and dollars, ($ ), as
above.
(Signed) CHARLES T. PLIMPTON,
Examining Auditor.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
MAURICE LYNCH,
MOSES NEWTON,
JAMES J. CURRAN,
Water Commissioners.
HoLyoxkE, Dec. .
e

Report of Water Board.  
TABLE A.

Statement of Location, Size and Length of Extensions
Made in  .
RE

LOCATION.  s
| tH oOo 
Appleton st. from Water, easterly to river,  
Hydrants,  
Hampshire st. from Locust to Sycamore,  ,
Highland ave. east from Pearl st.,  )
Hampden st. from High to Pine, 
Magnolia st. southeasterly from Sargeant,  
Pearl st. from Highland ave., south,  
Sargeant st. (formerly known as Chapman ave.) |
easterly from Northampton st.,  
Sycamore st. from Hampshire, southeasterly,  
Sycamore st. from Sargeant, southeasterly,  
Thorpe st. from Hampden to Beacon ave.,  
Water st. northerly from Appleton, 
a
Total, feet, 

  Report of Water Board.
TABLE B.
Location and Size of Cast-Iron Pipe Now Laid.
| |
LOCATION.  in.|  in. in.  iu. :} in. in. in.
Appleton street, son |
Adams street, |
A street, |
B street,  |
Blow-off, ,
Bigelow street,  |
Bridge street,  |
Bowers street, !
Beacon avenue,  .
Brown avenue, |
Bond street, |
Bh street, |
Brooks avenue, |
Cottage avenue, 
Commercial street, !
Canal street, 
Cabot street, !
Chapin street,  :
Chestnut street, |
Center street, )
Canby street. |
Conduit, Bray Brook, |
Charles street, |
Deep Cut,  
Dwight street.  
Dwight street alley, 
East street, |
Elm street,  '
Essex street, |
Ely street, |
From Deep Cut to High:
and Appleton streets,| )
From Deep Cut to Mer- |
rick’s farm house,  
Front street, |
Fairfield avenue, 
Franklin street,  |
(;len street,  |
Gates streot, aie
Hitchcock lane, |
High street.  |
Hydrants, ave. ft. !
Hampden street, |
Hamilton street, |
Hampshire street, |

Report of Water Board.  
LOCATION, in. in. in. in.  in. in. in.
|
  po
Highland avenue, |
Jackson street, 
James street, |
John street. |
Linden street, |
Lyman street.  |
Lincoln street,  |
Locust street.  |
Lawler street,  i
Laurel street, |
Main street,  |
Maple street,  |
Mechanic st.. Elmwood, '
Mosher street,  |
Miller avenue.  )
Magnolia street, |
Northampton street, 
Newton street, |
Nonotuck: street,  :
N street, |
Oak street, |
O’Connor avenue, |
Plymouth place,  :
Papineau street, ,
Park street, |
Pleasant street,  LO |
Prospect street,  
Pine street, :
Pear! streot. |
Parker street,  :
Railroad street.  ,
Race street.  
South street,  
Summer street, !
Sargeant strect,  
School street,  |
St. James avenue, |
St. Jerome avenue,  :
Suffolk street,  |
Sycamore street,  
Tannery Brook, |
Taylor street, .
Thorpe street,  |
Union street,  |
Vernon street, ;
View street,  !
Walnut street, !
Worcester place, |
West streot, !
Whiting Street dam, for |
waste, !
Willow street,  |
Water street, |
| —
Total, srl 
|

  Report of Water Board.
Total number of feet  or miles and feet.
 -inch,  -inch,  -inch,  -inch,  -inch,  -inch,  -inch,  
Total,  
Pipe laid per Report, 
Amount laid in  
| Total,  

Report of Water Board. ,
TABLE C.
Summary of small pipe now laid for temporary maius.
Divided as follows:
  inch, oo, feet.
  inch, “
  inch,  “
 inch, *
 inch, |.  inch, ‘
  inch,  
Total number of feet, 
Five miles and feet.

  Report of Water Board.
TABLE D.
Supmary of Gates Set in  .
.  s
LOCATION. son
en?) ad ca) |
Appleton and Water streets, ]
Beacon avenue and Thorpe street, :
Canal and Appleton streets, ]
Canby and Hampden streets, ]
Chestnut and Hampden strects, ]
Ifampden and High streets, and Pine streets, ]

“é and Maple streets,  
Hampshire and Locust streets, OL
Highland avenue and Pleasant street,  

Magnolia and Sargeant streets,  ;
Northampton and Sargeant streets, ]
Pearl street and Highland avenue,
Sargeant street and St. Jerome avenue, ]
Sycamore and Sargeant streets, —
Walnut and Ilampden streets, ]
Whiting Street reservoir, I
Total, 

Report of Water Board.  
TABLE KE.
Location and Size of Gates.
 [. .:efele Ss.
LOCATION. Se LESS oi+
rc INIS 
lw Ps Sa  a
Appleton and Water streets, No
“  and Mill streets, gy —
“ st., near Merrick Lumber Co. Ho
“ st., ft. east  level canal, |
“ st., ft. west ‘é re Ho
“ st., for hyt. W. R. R. crossing, oo
“  st., ft. east of Bond street, |
Adams and Canal streets, OT ,
A and South, |
Appleton and Canal, |
At Almshouse, |
“ main line, Sf
Bray Brook, at reservoir, bo Vo,
Brown avenue and South, |
Brooks avenue and Hampden, a
Bh and Dwight, |
“ and Appleton, od]
“ Jackson, blow-off,|
“ ft.  in.east of Northampton, lj
‘ and Northampton, blow-off, ot Ho
Bond and Cabot, |
Bowers and Lyman,  ]| |
“  and Mosher, !
Bigelow and Dwight, ro,
“  for Beebe Holbrook Pap. Co. |
 and Appleton, a
“ for Alpaca Company mill, ,
  and Cabot, an |
Beacon avenue and Pleasant, |
“ “e and Northampton, Wo an
‘s “e at Franklin,  
“ at Thorpe, oa !
B and A, I, an
B and Northampton, i
Bridge and Lyman,  |
‘  “Cabot, |
“  ‘“ Hamilton,  

 Report of Water Board.
a rs
LOCATION  gle EEEES
a — lee ee
Bridge and Sargeant,  ]

“  Adams, !

“ ‘Mosher streets, |
Bridge and Canal, South Holyoke, :
Brown avenue and Laurel, ]
Chestnut and Prospect, |

‘  ‘“ Hampden,  ]
“ “Lyman,  
‘e “Appleton,  
“  Cabot, |
“ Sargeant,  
Crescent and Appleton,  
Cabot and Canal, ]
Cabot and Park, !
Cabot, ft. east of  st level canal,  .
‘“ ft.  in. west of Ist level canal,’ ]
“and High, I
“ Maple,  
‘ Pine, ]
“ “Bh,  
Canby and Hampden, a
‘ Beacon avenue,  
Commercial and Cabot,  ,
‘  ‘“ Sargeant, ee
Center and Lyman, |]
‘  Mosher, |
Canal street, north of Lyman, in walk.  :

“ for line of pipe for mills,  |

‘ and Bridge, |

“st. near Valley Paper Co.’s block, ]

and Lyman, :

 blow-off, J

“  Cabot, ]

“  Appleton, ]

Canal and Jackson,  

“s  T[amilton, blow-off, l

‘* street,  

“ and Summer,  

‘  Park, blow-off,  

‘  Main, South Holyoke,  ]

Chapin and South,  

Report of Water Board.  
-| clélé eigle
LOCATION.  lS FE pales :
+) Oo Cinia ain
Cottage and Beacon avenue, No ,
Cherry and Northampton, bb
Charles and B, ko
“  rT} Soufh, po oO!
Dwight and Bridge, pp
‘  Center, |
, Ts West, |
“ street, at Wauregan Paper Co, nee
“and Front,oe
‘  Railroad street, Pot ,
rT; T; Maple, J),  
‘s ‘‘ for cistern at Park, re ,
‘and Chestnut, !
cco OK Elm, OO |
co Walnut, rue |
School, Ro
 Pleasant, bo
Northampton,ae |
Essex and Bh, |
. High, |
“Maple, Ot
East and Jackson,  i
Lyman, Dwight, |
 Ely, |
“ Cabot,  ,
Mosher,  po,
Ely and Bowers, od Sp
Elm and Prospect, iy |
Lyman, |
cou Hampden,i
‘* street, for stand pipe at No.  |!
‘* and Appleton,  Poy
“sf Cabot,ce !
Gates, \
  South, oo] 
Front and Lyman streets (Parsons line) Lyman, :
“ Dwight street alley, l
“  Dwight,  
Appleton, od,

  Report of Water Board.
oe  
LOCATION.  OE BOR Sa
a Oo Daa  
Front of House of Providence, ]
Franklin and Hampden, ]
“. “* Sycamore, J
Fairfield avenue, front of White’s house  
“  “é and Pearl,  
“ “Northampton, |
Gate House, at Ponds, ]
e “e at Tannery Brook, |
“  at Whiting Street Brook,  
‘* Blow-off Whiting St. Br’k  |
Gates and Elm,  
Glen and Northampton, :
  Brown avenue, ]
High and Prospect,  TWlampden,  
e Lyman,  Dwight, |
“ strect, for City Hall, ,
‘ and Appleton,  
“Cabot,  
“Sargeant, :
Jackson,  
Howard and Hampden, |
Hampden and Pine,  
“ Prospect, |
‘é High,  
‘ ‘* School, ]
“é ‘Brooks avenue, |
‘  Nonotuck, |
“ Canby, :
“ ‘Northampton,
Hamilton and Canal, |
“  “East, J
Hampshire and High, |
‘  Locust, |
Ilighland avenue and Pleasant, |
John and Front, |
co Wigh, |
James street, Springdale, |
Jackson and Maple, |
‘* Main,oe !

Report of Water Board.  
- nn OO we’ ed el we
. Cr rr
LOCATION, Sono  co FC ON
Jackson and Linden, |
‘  Summer, Race,  
Linden and Suffolk, l
‘  Hampden,  
“s Dwight, |
“ Sargeant, Q‘  Hampshire, |.  
“  Essex, .
Lyman st., ft. east of west line Sum’r,  
Lyman and Race, ft. w. of w. line  level can.,  
“ ft. e. of e. line Ist level canal.  
“and Front, l
“e “s High, )
‘s “Pine,  
“  “Elim, |
Locust and Sargeant streets, bo
“e “Sargeant, l
“ Hampshire,  
Lawler and Northampton,  ,
Laurel and Brown avenue re ,
‘  Northampton,|
Lincoln and Taylor, :
“ Pleasant, J
“  ‘* Pearl, ,
—  “Northampton, l
Main pipe, east end Rock cut, at station Bray’s lot, }
  Merrick’s farm house, bo,  Blow-off at Tannery Brook, }oe |
Merrick’s farm house, on  -inch pipe, oh
“ “int’s’ct’n pipe I,
Main and Race, )
“ ft. n. of dr’vew’y, Ht. [P?milt’n,  and Appleton,  
Sargeant,  
“ ft.  in.n. of n. line of  Pv’l en’),  
“ ft.  n. s.of s. line of  Pv’ len’, ]
and South, ]
“ at Ferry road,  ,

  Report of Water Bourd.
LOCATION, i.e) sla  ‘s  
| O;/Dl|— in bo oy |
ow. el oe at teen
Main at Sprindale brook, for B. O., :
  Springdale brook, ae
“ and Jackson, 
Maple and Prospect,  ||
“e Lyman,  |
“ Hampden, |
“ “Hampden, for stand pipe, yo!
re Appleton, Qo |
“ for Congregational Church,  
“ and Cabot,  |
 Sargeant,  :
“ ‘Franklin, |
“  Jackson, |
;  South, hoy |
Mosher and Center, DO
“  West,  !
“e “Main, |
Magnolia and Sargeant, :
Miller avenue and Hampden,  I
Newton and Appleton, Oo  |
“ Cabot, |
Northampton st., blow-off at J. Thorpe’s, |
‘  ss “e Asa Pray’s, |
“ C.H.Heywood’s, i.
“  and Lincoln,  
“ ‘“ Hampden, oo
“e Dwight,  
“e street, at G. P. Ellison’s,  !
‘  and Bh, |
“  South, |
“  street, at H. Brown’s, :
“ at Whiting’s farm,| |
“ atR.R. dry bridge,  
N and Northampton streets, |
N and streets, ,
Nonotuek and Lincoln, |
“e Hampden b
Oak and Dwight, ]
 Suffolk, ]
Appleton, |
 Essex, Tp

Report of Water Board.  
ee CaSS
ovation  ae
-  bin las ala
ee ee

' |

Oak and Cabet, !

  Sargeant, |
O'Connor avenue and Dwight, ot
Pine and Lyman,  ae

Hampden,.

  Dwight, Qo ot

 Appleton, OG !

  Cabot,  ]
Park and Sargeant, boy |

  Canal,  |

  Jackson,  

“ Cabot, |
Prospect and High,|

“  Chestnut, blow-off, |
“ Tlampden,ee
Pearl and Lincoln, 

 Hampden, SOL ot a

 airfield avenue, i!

 Highland |
Papineau and Main, ,
Pleasant and Fairfield avenue,oe —

‘ Hampden, oe oe oe yo
“  Beacon avenue,  a
“ Dwight, 

Parker and Hampden, |

Race street, for Hotel Hamilton,  

“ and Main,  |

Appleton, |

  Sargeant, So

 Jackson, ae

South, |
  South, ee} |
‘ rear Merrick thread mill, |
Railroad and Dwight, |
e Appleton, |
Sargeant and Park,|
 §t, Jerome avenue, ne od |
  street,at H. &W.R.bridge,oe |
“ and Maple, PQ
“  Northampton,  |
““ “Bh, ot

  Report of Water Board.
|-|:lele' ele 
LOCATION. '.  |.E 'c nolo @
|  |@ ion ai iN A
. |
Sargeant and Summer,  Locust, li !
Sycamore and Sargeant, ree|
Summer and Lyman,  ,

“ Cabot, oq |

‘ ‘“ Adams, |

“ ‘* Canal, South Holyoke, —] |
St. Jerome avenue and Dwight, od |
St. James and St. Jerome avenue, |
School and Hampden,  |

  Dwight, |
“ atreet, for stand pipe, ar |
South and Race, ly
 Maple, |
Chapin, ]
Tons blow-off, ll
‘ street. east of Baptist Church,  
‘and Brown avenue, pon
Suffolk and Linden, ae |
“e “School, io. oo
Tannery Brook line, near inch pipe, |
Taylor street, near  bo
‘and Hampden, |
Union and Lyman, !
Vernon street, Springdale, ll |
View and Brown avenue, |
 Northampton, yoo dt
West and Dwight, |
Mosher, yg .
Washington and Hampden, po!
Walnut and Lyman, poy
‘“ Dwight,  PO
“ Appleton,ee
“ Cabot, :
“ ‘‘ Hampshire,  |
“ Essex,  
‘* Hampden, boi
Willow Brown avenue,  
“Laurel, po
Whiting Street reservoir,  
—- |
Total,  ar-teae  }

|
:
Report of Water Board.  
SUMMARY. ,
 -inch gates  -inch gates,  
- -inch gates,  -inch gates, |
 -inch gates,  -inch gates, |
 -inch gates,  -inch gates, |
Total, :

  Report of Water Board.
TABLE F.
Summary of Hydrants set in  .
Toe ——— -- Tor wa pe —— ——
LOCATION. or Make. DEL
Side. “or 
Canal and Lyman streets, N. E. |Hol. Fire Hydr't ]
Canby and Hampden streets, iS. E.|  
Hampshire and Syeamore streets. N.E.|  ee
Highland ave. and Pear! street. N.W.)  |
High, opposite Oliver street. W. se ae |
High and Hampden streets, ..  ss ;
Ge Ce oe oouNebe {
‘ opposite John street, N.E.|  
Hampden street, at alley between High
and Maple streets, 'S. cb rz N. W. 
‘street, at alley between Chest- |
nut and Maple streets. S.  
‘* and (Chestnut streets, ni FE 
. “street, at alley between Chestnut and Elm streets, So] ]
‘ and Elm streets, SLWo] os ts  gtreet, at alley between Elm |
and Walnut streets. OS. .* ]
‘“ and Elm streets, |S. E. Joos  
“ Walnut streets, N.W ]
  Pine streets, N. EL ]
a
Total,  i)
| oo

Report of Water Board.  
TABLE @G.
LOCATION OF HYDRANTS.
' py oi... IS |
o oie
LOCATION. SS Make. (£ s\ 
Q oH pH [eo Io oe)
  ce e——ee ened ed eel a
|
  |
A street, feet south of No.  East Hol. Fire Hyd. :
Adams and Park, Ss. W. |
Adams and Mechanic, N. W. yp
Appleton and Mechanic South “s  
Appleton st., ft. w. C. R. R.! 
track, South |Mathews  
Appleton st., ft. w. H. W. .
track, South |Hol. Fire Hyd e
Appleton and Bigelow, ‘SE.  oe
At Almshouse,  od ,
B and streets. N. E. |
B and Charles, South Po
- Band C. streets 'N. E.  |
B and Northampton, N. E. et
Bh and Dwight. S. W.  
Bh and Suffolk, \N. E. :
Bh and Appleton. N.E. “s on
Bigelow and Cabot, N.W. |
Bigelow, ft. south of northeast |
corner Connor’s mill, West ss  
Bigelow, rt. south of northeast.  ,
corner of Alpaca mill, West ]
Bigelow, S. E. cor. Skinner's mil],/West me
Bigelow, ft. S. Massasoit Pa. Co.| West Mathews  
Bigelow, ft. south of Dwight, |West  
Bowers and Dwight. IN. E.  
Bowers and Mosher. S. E. ‘Hol. Fire Hyd.|  |
Bowers and Fly, 'S. E.  !
Beacon avenue east of No.  INorti:  !
Beacon avenue and Nonotuck, N.W. ee
Beacon avenue and Canby, N. E.  ,
Beacon avenue aud Northampton, N. E.  )
Beacon avenue and Parker, iN. E.  
Brown avenue and South, S. E.  
Brooks uvenue south of No.  East 
Brooks avenue and Laurel, ‘S. E.  |
Bridge and Jackson, S. E. Mathews  )
Bridge and Adams, S. E. Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Bridge and Sargeant. N.E. |
Bridge and Cabot, S.E. Po
Bridge and Dwight. N. E.  
Bridge and Lyman, N.W. ele
Bridge and Canal, W. eo

 Report of Water Board.
| te} Sl le!
eg PSste
LOCATION. es Make. @sS&  
& ees
 KH Hes US
Canal and Summer,  S. Holyoke, N. W. Mathews.  |
Canal and Jackson. S. W. Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Canal and Adams, N. W. .
Canal and Appleton, N.W. |
Canal, ft. north of Bridge to !
Excelsior Paper Co. [Kast ,
Canal and Lyman, N. E.  |
Canal and Hamilton, N. W. Mathews. |
Canal and Cabot, NL. W. ss  |
Canal and Lyman, North Flat, N.W. Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Canal and Summer. Ss. W.,  :
Canal and West, S. E. Mathews. |
. Canby and Hampden. S. E. Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Cabot and Bh, N.E. |
Cabot and Oak, N.E. oe |
Cabot, west side Ist level canal, North  
Crescent street, ft. south of :
Appleton street, East Mathews. |
Center and Canal. ‘SS. W. Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Ceuter and Mosher Ss. W. ss ,
Cabot and Bond, N.E.! |
Cabot and East, Ss. W.  |
Chestnut and Prospect. S. E. Mathews.  
Chestnut and Fountain, S. W. Hol. Fire Hyd. !
Chestnut and Lyman. N.E. cs |
Chestnut and Hampden, Ss. W. |
Chestnut and Suffolk, NW .:  —
(Chestnut and Appleton, N. E. os  '
Chestnut and Essex, N.W.  |
Chestnut and Cabot, N.W.  
Chestnut and Franklin, N. EF. |
Chestnut and Hampshire, N.W. 
Commercial and Franklin, N.W. es  ,
Commercial and Jackson, N.W. '
Chapin st., ft. north of Allyn, West |Mathews.  '
Chapin and South, N. W. jHol. Fire Hyd.  ,
Chapin and B. N. W.  :
Dwight and East. N.W.  .
Dwight and Center, NW.  
Dwight and West. N. W. |
Dwight street, at Beebe Hol- |
brook Paper Co.. South |
Dwicht st., at Wauregan Paper Co.'South  |
Dwight street, at No.  ., South vs |
Dwight street, at Hampden Park, North os |
Dwight street, at Hampden Park, North /Cellar.  
Dwight and Elim, N. Er. Mathews. .
Dwight and Elm, S. W. iHol. Fire Hyd. |

 
|
|
|

: Report of Water Board.  
!
|
  ig  SS
|  et ,
uo ag fan  
LOCATION. Make. rc s+ ey |
oF i§ SBE !
i dt Oe |
| |
Dwight and Pine, 'N. W. Hol. Fire Hyd.  |
Dwight and Linden, N.E. Mathews |
Dwight street, opp. Whiting ave. North ss  
Dwight and School, N.W. )
Dwight street. west of No.  South ve |
Dwight and Pleasant. W. Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Dwight and Nonotuck, N.W. 
Ely and Bridge, S. W. Mathews  |
Fly and Center, N.E.  ,
Ely and West, North Hol. Fire Hyd.  .
Kast and Ely, N.E. Mathews  }
East and Mosher, S. W. Hol. Fire Hyd  ,
East street, near Munn Baush, East é. ]
Kast and Hamilton, S. KE. Mathews  
East street. front  East ‘Hol. Fire Hyd  
Elm and Fountain, S. EF.  |
Elm st., ft. south of Lyman, West  
Elm and Hampden. N.W. Mathews  .
Elm and Suffolk, N. W. ‘Hol. Fire Hvd. |
Elm and Appleton, N. E.  )
Elm and Essex. N.W.  .
Elm and Cabot. NE. ts |
Elm and Hampshire, N.W. |
Elm and Gates. N.W. ]
Elm st. ft. north of South st. West]
Essex and Linden, N.W., |
Essex and Maple, N. E.  
Fountain and Front, N.W.. ..  
Front and Hampden, N.W.., “s  ]
Front and John, N. W. Mathews ]
Front and Dwight, N.W, 
Fairtield ave., opp. the Green. ‘North Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Fairtield ave.. at Dean’s house, North: l
Glen st. and Brown ave, N.W. vs !
Glen street, ft. east of North- :
ampton street. North  
Hampshire and Sycamore, N. EL |
Hampshire and Commercial, N.W. |
High and Fountain, N.W.  
High street, front of No.  East ,
High street. front of No.  East |
High and Hampden, S. W. Mathews i]
High street, front of  Kast Hol. Fire Hyd. ]
High and Dwight. S. E.  
Hizh street. front of No.  West  I
High and Suffolk, N. EB. “*  
Higb and Appleton. iN. E.  
High street, front of No.  |\West  ,

  Report of Water Board.
®o-.'. te  z|
ty  qa Lf ea|.LOCATION, ox Make. a, zc ae) &
a gs 
Oo toto c|
| ,
High and Essex, S. E. Hol. Fire Hyd..  |
High and Cabot, S. E. ,
High and Hampshire. S. E. oy |
High and Oliver, West  
High and Hampden. Ss. FE.  
High and Hampden, N. W.  Jd
High and John, N. E.  ,
High and Franklin, Ss. W. |
High and Jackson, N.W. ve  |
Highland ave. and Pear! st.., N. W. ve  ,
Hampden street, at alley of High, |
and Maple. South  |
Hampden and Maple, N. W.:  |
Hampden st., atalley bet. Chestnut hoy
aod Maple. South ,
Hampden and Chestnut, N. E. oe cr
Hampden and Chestnut, N. W.|
Hampden st., at alley bet. Chest- ;
nut and Elm, South’cn
Hampden and Elin, Ss. W. |
Hampden and Walnut, N.E. “s  |
Hampden and Pine, N. E.  |
Hampden st., at alley bet. Elm and |
Walnut. South 
Hampden and Elm, 'S. EF.  ]
Hampden st., ft. east of High, Alley |
Hampden st., at intersection of
Prospect street. .
Hampden street. opp. No.  North !
Hampden and School, Ss. OW. |
Hampden and Taylor, INouth :
Hampden and Franklin, js. W. ‘e|
Hampden and Howard, N.W. ‘s  ]
Hamilton and Bridge, Ss. W. ve  |
Hamilton and Park, N. E. bs |
Hitcheock Lane, North ce  
House of Providence, ‘North “s  
House of Providence. South |
John street, High alley. N. W.| ve  
John street, at Bowker’s stable. South.  |
Jackson and Race, ‘N. E. Mathews.  
Jackson st., ft. west of  level |
eanal, North Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Jackson st.. bet. Main aud Race, North ol
James and Main, N. E. |
Linden and Hampden, S. KE. |
Linden street. south of Sargeant, N. E. :
Linden and Hampshire, S. Ee.  |

Report of Water Board,  
OD -| .:@,
o.|LjiQ Ee,
ts  L\ in .
LOCATION. ov Make. (SIF eS wu
p) -|  ). @
  SS  sw lalols .
oe|| |-|—,— 
Linden and Cabot, 'N. E. |Hol. Fire Hyd| !
Locust and Sargeant, S. E. sc  
Locust and Franklin, ‘N.E. oe |
Lincoln and Howard, West  |
Lincoln and Pleasant, N.W. se |
Lawler st., front of G. W. Hill's, North 
Laurel st., ft. w. of No.  North ,
Laurel and Willow, oe
Lyman st., ft. w. of Summer, North |Mathews. :
Lyman and East. IS. W. —
Lyman street, front of No.  ‘South ss :
Lyman street. front of No.  South J
Lyman st., ft. e. lst level canal, South :Hol]. Fire Hyd. en
Lyman st., ft. east of High, Alley Woy i.
Lyman and High, IS, W. Moyo
Lyman and Front, IN. W.  |
Lyman and Bh, 'S. E.  |
Mosher and Bridge, 'N. W. |Mathews. |
Mosher and West, '$. E. |Hol. Fire Hyd.; yo
Mill street, near Appleton, i\East “s me
Main street, at Carter's stable, West es I} {|
Main st., ft.  of Dwight, \West |Mathews. |
Main st., ft.  of Cross, ‘West Hol. Fire Hyd.’  
Main and Appleton, IN, W.  |} [il
Main and Spring,  E. :Mathews. yo |
Main and Cabot, S. W. ‘Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Main and Hamilton, S. W. |
Main and Sargeant,  S. W. as  |
Main st.,n e. cor. Warp mill, ‘West io  |
Main and Adums, S. E.  ,
Main and Jackson, S. E. 
Main st., opp. Hol. Paper Co. West Mathews.  ,
Main st., ft.  Beebe Webber, West  |
Main and South, N. W. vs  |
Main st., ft. from South st., ‘West Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Main st., ft. from South st., West se |
Main street at Ferry road, vs ]| |
Main street at J. J. Prew’s, iWost |
Maple and Prospect, S. E. os  |
Maple and Fountain, IN. E. |
Maple and Lyman, IN. E.  .
Maple street at No.  [Kast Mathews. !
Maple and Hampden, 'S. E. Hol. Fire Hyd  ,
Maple and Dwight, IN. E.  |
Maple and Suffolk, S. E. |
Maple and Appleton, S. W. |Mathews. |,
Maple and Cabot, N. W. Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Maple and Sargeant, Ss. W. ts  |

  Report of Water Board.
' .| OD
 (SS le
LOCATION. §o Make. jo BS)
Be |ais|aig
S Hitt ie &
Maple and Jackson, N.W.|Hol FireHyd.|  
Maple st., ft.s. of Franklin, East  
Miller ave., ft. s. of Hampden, West |
Mechanic st., Elmwood, ‘South |F’les,J’nks&Co'  ,
Newton st., ft. s. of Appleton, S. E. |Hol. Fire Hyd. Yo |
Newton and Essex, IN. E.ae
Newton st., ft. n. of Cabot, West |
N and streets, 'S. E. rz  |
Nonotuck and Hampden, Ss. W.  
Nonotuek and Fairfield ave., N. W. ele
Nonotuck and Lincoln, S. W. ss |
Northampton st., at Jno. Thorpe’s, West Ay |
at C. A. Corser’s, West  Vy
at C. Hastings’, West  
at C. H. Heywood’s, East oe Sn .
at A. D. Street’s, West Lt
at W.  Loomis’, ‘West |
at R. M. Fairfleld’s, East vs  !
Northampton and Lincoln, WestCee
at Mrs. H.  Dickerman’s, East a
Northampton and Hampden, West ee
Northampton and Dwight, West vs ee
at J. L. Coohrane’s, West ele
  ft. north of J. Cleary’s, East i
Northampton st., at G. P. Ellicon’s|East  Po |
  ft. north of Ball’s corner, (East ji |
at Dexter hose house, Rast Lob
  ft. north of Mechanic st., West  )
Northampton and South, S. E. Mathews. ae  .
at C. E. Torrance’s, West |Hol. Fire Hyd.’  |
at Horace Brown's, West se oo] |
at Oscar Ely’s, West !
at Whiting’s farm house, East |
O'Connor ave., opp. No.  Wost  |
Oak and Dwight, iS. W. |
Oak and Suffolk, x. Ww. un  
Oak ard Appleton, S. W. ve |
Oak and Essex, IN. W.|
Oak and Hampshire, iN. W. ‘J |
Oak st., ft. n. of Sargeant, West  |
Oliver st., ft. east of High, |Alley  
Park and Cabot, iN. W. |Mathews. |
Park and Sargeant, N. W.|!| |
Park and Jackson, N.W. Hol. FireHyd.  |
Park st., opp. No.  East Mathews.  |
Park and Canal, N. W. oe  |
Pine and Prospect, E. se ', |
Pine and Lyman, S. W. re

Report of Water Board.  
| \ss 
no ioiS\z| .
LOCATION. os Make. @B [CSP le
aS ldidials
cS) ce [tS om OD
i) HH [co [OD
Pine and Hampden, N. W. |Mathews.  
Pine and Appleton, N. E. |Hol. FireHyd.'  
Pine and Suffolk, Ss. W. ss  
Pine and Essex, N. W. Mathews.  
Pine and Cabot, §. W. ‘Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Prospect and High,  E. oe  
Pleasant st., ft. n. of Allyn, West |Mathews.  
Pleasant and Hampden, N. W. !Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Pleasant street, at No.  West  
Pleasant street, at No.  West 
Pearl and Fairfleld avenue, S. W. l
Pearl and Lincoln, S. E.  
Pear] and Allyn, S. W. Mathews.  
Pear] and Hampden, N. W. |Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Plymouth and Commercial, N.W.  
Papineau and Main, N. W.! 
Parker and Hampden, S. W.  
Railroad street and Dwight, S. W. we  
Railroad st., and Appleton, IN. W.  
Railroad street and Suffolk, IN. W.  
Race, at intersection of Main, West  
Race and Dwight, N. W. |Mathews.  
Race and Cross, N.E. |Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Race and Appleton, S. E. ;Mathews.  
Race and Spring, ‘'S. E. |Hol. Fire Hyd.  ]
Race and Cabot, IN. E. |
Race and Hamilton, \N. E. |Mathews.  
Race and South, IN. E. ea |
South st., bet. Nos. and  North/|Hol. Fire Hyd.|  
South st., bet. Nos. and  North oe |
Sargeant and Race, \N. E. |
Sargeant, bet. lst  level canal,’ North at |
Sargeant, east of Commercial, 'North  
Sargeant and Chestnut, N. E. sc |
Sargeant and Bh, N. W. !
Sargeant and Linden, [N- KE. oe  
Sargeant and High, N. E. |Mathews.  }
Sargeant and Sycamore, Hol. FireHyd.|  |
Summer and Ely, N.W.  |
Summer and Cabot, S. W.  
Summer and Hamilton, N. W.  
Summer and Jackson, S. W. ss  
St. James and St. Jerome aves., N.W. 
Suffolk and Sycamore, North |
Taylor street, front of No.  West |
Taylor and Lincoln, S. W. Mathews.  
Taylor street, front of No.  East Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Union and Fountain, S. W. Mathews.  ),

  Report of Water Board.
é  sie
LOCATION. So Make.  folelB\
  |sisieie
) (beh Jeo &
Vernon, at Main street, N. W. |Hol. Fire Hyd. |
Vernon street, North |
View st., ft. east of Taft’s house,|South  
Walnut and Essex, S. W. 
Walnut and Hampshire, N. E.  |
Washington and Hampden, N. W.  j
Worcester place and Commercial, |N. W. “a  
Walnut and Lyman, S. W. |Mathews.  
Walnut street, No.  West |Hol. Fire Hyd.  
Walnut and Hampden, S. E.  |
Walnut and Dwight, S. E. |Mathews.  !
Walnut and Suffolk, S. E. “s  
Walnut and Appleton, N. E. |Hol. Fire Hyd.  }
Walnut and Cabot, N. E. se  !
Willow st., bet. Brown ave. and |
Northampton st. North 
Willow and Brown avenue, N. W.  
Total,  
|

Report of Water Board.  
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
 -inch, one out,  -inch, two outs,  -inch, two outs,  -inch, three outs,  
Cellar, ,  
Total, ,  
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN
CITY OUTSIDE OF CITY HYDRANTS,
TO DATE.
  stand pipe outs.
  single hydrants.
  double hydrants.
  cellar hydrants.
  mills using perforated pipe sprinklers.
  mills using automatic sprinklers.
  fire pumps at mills.

  Report of Water Board
TABLE H.
METERS

TS TS  

LOCATION. SIZE. NO. DESCRIPTION.
Albion Paper Co., in.|  Worthington
Albion Paper Co., in.)  |/Crown
Beebe, Webber Co., in.|  /B. F. Piston
Beebe Holbrook Co., in.)  |B. F. Piston
Baush Son, C. H., in.|  |\Crown
Beebe, Frank, In.|  /Crown
Church of the Rosary, in.  ;Worthington
Conn. River Lumber Co., in.)  Worthington
Clary, C. H. in!  |Worthington
Conn. River Paper Co., in; (Worthington
City Foundry, in.|  /Crown
Church Precious Blood, in.|  /B. F. Rotary
Clough, James A., In.|  z/Crown
Crocker Manufacturing Co.,|  In.i  /Crown
Crocker Manufacturing Co.,|/  in.|  |Hersey
Cloutier, Joseph, in.|  |\Crown
Connecticut River R. R. Co.,| in.|  /B. F. Duplex
Chase Cooledge, in.) Worthington
Connor Bros. in.| Crown
Connor Bros.,  in.) Worthington
Chemical Paper Co., in.) Hersey
Chemical Paper Co., in.| Worthington
Chemical Paper Co., Ii In.| Crown
(BV ork swam Bowen in  Worthington

orks |

Delaney, John, in xv Crown
Delaney, John, in.| Crown 
Deane Steam Pump Co., in.|  Hersey
Deane Steam Pump Co., in CYorthington
Davis, C. B. J. A. in.|  'Crown
Dickinson, G. R. Paper Co.,!  in.  Worthington
Dickinson, G. R. Paper Co., in.| Worthington
Excelsior Paper Co., in. Worthington
Episcopal Church, in, Oy orthington
Farr, H. M. in. Crown
Farr Alpaca Co., in. Hersey

Report of Water Board.  
LOUATION. SIZE. NO. DESCRIPTION,
Farr Alpaca Co.,  in. Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co., in.:  Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co., in.)  :Crown
Farr Alpaca Co., in, Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co., in.  Worthington
Franklin Paper Co.,  in. Worthington
Flanagan, T. J., in.  'Crown
Fairmount House, in. Worthington
Fenton Dunno,  in. .Crown
Germania Mills, in.  Worthington
Gee, Estate of John, in.  'Crown
Graves Kinney, in,  Worthington
Gillett, J. L.,  in. Crown
Goddard Machine Co., §-  in.) B. F. Rotary
Hobbs, S. J., in.| Worthington
House of Providence, in.)  Worthington
Hol. &So. Hadley Falls Ice Co.i  in.) Crown
Hampden Glazed Paper Co.,!  in.  ,Crown
Hadley Co., spool shop,  in., Worthington
Hadlev Co., boiler, in. ‘Worthington
Hadley Co., bleachery, in.) Crown
Hadley Co., mill, in, ‘Worthington
Hadley Co., winding-room, P. in.'  Worthington
Hadley Co., boiler, in.) Worthington
Holyoke Water Power Co., rl in., Worthington
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  in. Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  in.|  Worthington
Holyoke Water Power Co., in. o— Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co.  in.  Worthington
Holyoke Water Power Co., in. Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co., in. Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co., in.  /[ersey
Holyoke Steam Laundry, in.  Worthington
Holyoke Street Railway Co., in. Crown
Holyoke Machine Co., in.  ,Worthington
Holyoke Warp Co., in, Duplex
Holyoke Warp Co., In. Worthington
Holyoke Envelope Co., in.  |Crown
Holyoke Paper Co.,  in.  |Worthington
Holyoke Paper Co., in.  Worthington
Holyoke Paper Co.,  in.  Worthineton

  Report of Water Board.
LOCATION. SIZE. NO. DESCRIPTION.

Holyoke Furniture Co., in.|  ,Crown
Hol. Hydrant Iron Works, in.|  Worthington
Haynes Miller, in.|  :Crown
Judd Paper Co., in.|  Hersey
Kelton R. F., in.|  ;Crown
Lyman Mills, in.|  |Crown
Lyman Mills, in.|  Worthington
Leavitt, B., in.|  Thomson
Methodist E. Church, in.|  ;/Thomson
Merrick Thread Co., in.}  Worthington
Merrick Thread Co., in.|  Worthington
Merrick Thread Co., in.|  Worthington
Merrick Thread Co., in.  Worthington
Merrick Thread Co., in.|  ;|\Crown
Merrick Thread Co., in.|  /Herse
Merrick Lumber Co., in.| Worthington

: Miller, S. T., in.|  /Crown
Massasoit Paper Co., in.) Worthington
Mackintosh, D. Sons Co.,  in.|  'B. F.
Mackintosh, D. Sons Co.,  in.;  Hersey
Nightingale, Geo., in.,  'Crown
Nonotuck Paper Co, in.  Worthington
Nonotuck Glazed Paper, in.i  |/Hersey
Newton Paper Co., in  orthington
National Blank Book Co., In. Crown |
Nichols, B. F., Belt Co., In.  'Crown |
Octo, Frank, in.  |[ersey
Parsons Paper Co., in.  /Crown
Parsons Paper Co., in,  Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., in.|  |Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., in. —/Crown
Parsons Paper Co., in.  ;Crown
Parsons Paper Co., In.  /B. F. Piston
Parsons Paper Co., in.  s| A. FF. Rotary
Parsons Paper Co., in.  Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., in. —|Crown
Parsons Paper Co., in,  'Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., in.  |Worthington
Perkins, B. F. Son,  In.  /Hersey
Phelps Tower, in.  /Crown
Prentiss, Brooks Co., ;§ in.  Worthington

Report of Water Board.  

, LOCATION. SIZE. NO. DESCRIPTION.
Riverside Paper Co., in.|  Worthington
Ranger, Casper, in.|  ;\Crown
Syms Dudley Paper Co.,  in.|  Worthington
Seymour, Henry Cutlery Co. |! in, B. F. Piston
Skinner Sons, William,  in.|  )/Worthington
Skinner Sons, William, Inj  :B. F. Rotary
Skinner Sons, William, in.|  |\Crown
Springfield Blanket Co., in. roel tnston
St. Jerome Church, in.|  :'Crown
Second Baptist Church, in Worthington
Springfield Provision Co.,  in.|  'Crown

 Sacred Heart Church, in.| [Worthington
Second Cong. Church, in!  'Crown
Sears Co., I.., in|  :Crown
Sears Co., I., In. Hersey
Swift Bros. Co.. in.;  'Crown
Tilley Co., John, in.  Worthington
Tuttle, J. H.,  n.|  'Crown
Valley Paper Co., in.;  Worthington
Valley Paper Co., in.|  ,;Crown
Whiting Paper Co., in.’  Worthington
Whiting Paper Co., In. B. F. Rotary
Whiting Paper Co., in,  \B. F. Piston
Whiting Paper Co., in}  /Crown
Whiting Paper Co., in.,  Worthington
Whiting Paper Co., in.’  Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, in  /Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, in.,  Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, in.  |Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, in.)  Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, in;  /Worthington
Winona Paper Co., in.  |Worthington
Winona Paper Co., in|  )Hersey
Wanuregan Paper Co., in:  |Worthington
Whitmore ManufacturingCo.|  in.  /Crown
West, Stone Co., in.  |Crown
Whitcomb, M. H., in.’  'Crown
Yoerg, K. J. in  /Crown
Total,  ,

  Report of Water Board.
SUMMARY OF METERS IN USE.
Make,  ie sls E
we oF a, nN oD  So
|

Worthington,  
Crown, Jf 
Ball Fitts piston, Be  
Ball Fitts rotary, 
Ball Fitts duplex, 
Hersey,  
Thomson, io],  
Total, 

Report of Water Board.  
TABLE I.
Inventory of Stock, Tools, etc., December  ),  .
PIPF.

 -inch pipe, feet.

 -inch pipe, feet

"  -inch pipe, feet

 -inch pipe, feet

 -inch pipe, feet

 -inch pipe, feet
 -inch pipe, feet |

 -inch pipe, feet

 -inch pipe, (galvanized) feet

 -inch pipe, feet

 -inch pipe, feet

SLEEVES.

 -inch,  

 -inch,  

 -inch, to, il

 -inch,  

OFFSETS.
 -inch,  -inch,  
Y’s.
'  -inch,  -inch,  

  Report of Water Board.
DOUBLE BRANCHES.
  inch,   inch,   inch,   inch,  &inch,   inch,   inch,.   inch,.   inch,.  
SINGLE BRANCHES.
  inch,   inch,   inch,.   inch,   inch,  inch,  inch,  inch,.   inch,.   inch,  
Sidewalk Boxes,  
Lead, pigs
BENDS.
 -inch    inch  .  -inch   -inch  .  

Report of Water Board.  -inch   -inch   -inch  . q
 -inch  ,  -inch  .  -inch  .  -inch  ..  -inch  .  
REDUCERS.
  to  -inch,   to  -inch,   to  -inch,   to  -inch,   to  -inch,   to  -inch,   to  -inch,   to  -inch,  to  -inch,  to  -inch,  
HYDRANTS.
 -inch single,  -inch double,  
OOOKS.
  inch stop and waste,   inch stop and waste,   inch stop and waste (main pipe), inch stop and waste,   inch stop and waste,  

  Report of Water Board.

  inch stop and waste (main pipe), inch sidewalk,   inch sidewalk, inch sidewalk, inch sidewalk (main pipe),  

  inch sidewalk,  

GATES.
 -inch,  -inch,  -inch,  -inch,  -inch, qT
UNIONS.

 -inch, mo  

 -inch,  -inch,  

SUNDRIES.
  derrick, saw vise,
  steamer and fixtures, grindstones,
  tapping machines, oil stone,
  taps, bench drill,
  drills, wood chisel,
  fire pots, bit stock and bits,
  kettle, branding iron,
  ladles, snow shovels,
  chisels, feet rubber hose,
  hammers, stoves,
  sets, coal sifter,

, Report of Water Board. gasket irons, horses,
  long set, business wagon,
  sledges, sleighs,
  iron bars, carriage, —
  pairs pipe tongs, buffalo robe,
  Stilson wrenches, horse brushes, Coe wrenches, barn brooms,
  gate wrenches, hay cutter,
  hydrant wrenches, die stocks and dies,
  stop cock wrenches, pair pipe cutters,
  pair hydrant tongs, hand saw,
 hand force pumps, whip saw,
- feet block tin pipe, tool chests,
  picks, tape lines,
  shovels, screw drivers,
  axes, auger,
  grub axes, iron square,
  brush scythes, oll cans,
  iron rakes, ice scraper,
  brush hooks, ice catter,
  rubber coats, tons of coal,
  pair rubber boots, desks,
  lanterns, chairs,
  water pails, truck wagon,
  wheelbarrows, harnesses,
  boat. horse blankets,
  dif pulley, currycombs,
  pair platform scales, shop brooms,
  forge, forks,
  anvil, whip,
  pipe vises, solder irons,
  small vise, iron wedge.
  watering trough.

  Report of Water Board.
METERS ON HAND.
WORTHINGTON.
One inch, No.  
One inch, No.  
One inch,  No.  
One inch, No.  
One inch, to No.  
One inch, No.  
One inch, No.  
One inch, No.  
One inch, No.  
One inch, No.  
One linch, No.  
One  inch, No.  
One inch, No.  
One inch, No.  
CROWN.
One inch, No.  
One  inch, No.  
One linch, ., No.  
One linch, No.  
One linch, No.  
One inch, No.  
BALL FITTS.

One inch, No.  
One linch, No.  
THOMSON.

One linch, No.  

Report of Water Board.  
HERSEY.

One inch, No.  
One  inch, .- No.  
One inch, No.  
One linch, No.  
One linch, No.  
One linch, No.  
One  inch, No.  
One  inch, No.  
One  inch, No.  

  Report of Water Board.
TABLE J.

SHOWING AVERAGE NUMBER AND DESCRIPTION OF
WATER TAKERS NOW REGISTERED
Almshouse,  
Alpaca mill,  
Business college,  
Boarding school,  
Beer pumps,  
Baths,  
Barber shops,  
Boarding houses,  
Brass foundry,  
Blank book mannfactories,  
Blanket mill, ,
Blacksmith and carriage shops,  
Boiler shop,  
Beer and soda bottling,  
Bakeries,  

Billiard rooms,  
Belt shops,  
Box shops,  
Band rooms,  
Banks,  
Book binderies,  
Cattle,  
Cotton mills,  
Churches,  
Church organs,  
Cafe,  
Cigar manufacturers,  

Report of Water Board. 
Colored cotton,  
Cotton warp mills,  
Cutlery works,  
Cement pipe works,  
, Cemeteries,  
Club rooms,  
Confectionery manufactory,  
Carpet cleaning,  
Cotton thread and twine manufactories,  
Chemical laboratory,  
City hall, —,  
Convents,  
Carriage repositories,  
| Drug stores,  
Dentists,  
Dining rooms,  
Dressmaking,  
Dye works,  
Envelope manufactories,  )
Engines,  
Eating houses,  
Elevators,  
Express companies,  
Electric light station, |
Families, 
Fish markets,  
Fourdrinier wire works,  
Fountain and rotary sprinklers,  
Fire hydrant manufactory,|
File works,  
Fire engine houses,  

  Report of Water Board.

Glazed paper works,  
Greenhouses,  
Gray Nun’s school,  
Gate house,  
Gas house,  
Gasometers,  
Grist mills,  
Hose,  
Horses,  
Hairdressers,  
Harness shops,  
Houses of Providence, 
Hotels,  
Halls,  
Iron foundries,  
Ice dealers,  
Kindergarten schools,  
Lodging rooms,  
Livery stables,  
Lithographers,  
Laundries,  
Lumber yards,  
Meat markets,  
Machine shops,  
Motors,  
Offices,  
Opera house,  
Pool rooms,  
Paper box manufactories,  
Paper knife works,  
Paper mills,  

Report of Water Board.  
Paper pad manufactories,  
Public library,  
Post office,  
Police court,  
Planing mills,  
Pork packing houses,  
Printing offices,  
Photograph rooms,  
Plumbers,  
Passenger and freight depots,  
Public drinking fountains,  
Parks,  
Public bath rooms,  
Reading rooms,  
Restaurants,  
Reed shop,  
Rubber works, Co,  
Round bouse,  
Stores,  
Soda fountains,  
Shops,  
Saloons,  
Steam pump manufactory,  
Silver plater,  
Soap manufactory,  
Stand pipes,  
Seal-skin manufactory,  
School houses,  
Slaughter house,  
Silk mill,  
Silk stocking: manufactory,  

  Report of Water Board

Spindle shop,  
Saw mill,  
Sealing wax manufactory,  
Sausage manufactories,  
Stone yards,  
Screw mill,  
Steam and gas fitters,  
Store houses,  
Street sprinkling carts.  
Tailor shops,  )
Tumbler washers,  
Tin shops,  
Telegraph offices,  
Telephone office,  
Testing flume,  
Urinals,  
Undertakers,  
Vegetable sprinklers,  
W ater closets,  
Woolen mills,  ,
Wood yards,  
Wire mattress works,  
Watering troughs,  
Water PowerCo.,  
Young Men’s Christian Association,  

Report of Water Board.  
TABLE K.
SUMMARY OF STAND PIPES,  .

Brown avenue near South street,  
Bh street near Appleton street,  
Bridge street corner Canal street (So. Holyoke),  
Bridge street south of Sargeant street (So. Holyoke),  
Bridge street near No. 
Center street corner East Dwight street,  
Center street near Lyman street,  
Chestnut street corner Sargeant street,  
Chestnut street corner Prospect street,  
Cabot street near Race street,  
East street corner Hamilton street,  
Essex street near Maple street,  
Hamilton street corner Canal street,  
Jackson street near Holyoke Paper Co.’s mill,  
Main street near South street,  
Maple street near South street,  
Northampton street near South street,  
Pine street near Dwight street,  
Race street at F. C. Steele’s,  
Railroad street corner Appleton street,  
Sargeant street near Maple street,  
Washington avenue corner South street,  
Willow street near Laurel street,  
Total,  

  Report of Water Board.
HEIGHT OF WATER AT GATE HOUSE

AT WRIGHT'S POND.
January: ist,  ft in.;  d, ft. in.
February:  th, ft  in.;  th, ft. in.
March:  th, ft.  in.;  th, ft. in.
April:  th, ft.  in.;  th, ft. in. |
May:  th, ft. in.;  d, ft. in. .
June:  d, ft.  in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.
July:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.  in.;  th, ft.  in.
August:  d, ft.  in.;  th, ft. in.
September:  th, ft.  in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.
October:  th,  ft.  in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft  in.
November:  th, ft.  in.;  st, ft. in.
December: Ist, ft.  in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.  

in.;  th, ft. in.

Average height for the year, feet.

Report of Water Board.  
STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE
HOLYOKE WATER WORKS,
DECEMBER .

Population by school census of .

Date of construction,  .

Works owned by the city.

Source of supply—two contiguous natural lakes three
and one-half miles from the city, two mountain
streams, and storage reservoir.

Mode of supply—gravity.

FINANCIAL.
RECEIPTS.
From Consumers:

A. Water rates fixed, 

B, Water ratemeters,  

C. Receipts for water from private

consumers,  
From Public Funds:

D. Fire purposes,  

E. Public buildings, Poo Lo  

F. Total receipts for water, 

G. Service pipe, 

H. All other sources,  

. I. Gross receipts,  

J. Cash balance, Jan.  

$ 

  Report of Water Board.
EXPENDITURES.
AA. Management and repairs, Lo.  
BB. Service and repairs, .. 
CC. Running expenses for  ..  
DD. Interest on bonds, 
EE. Total maintenance, 
FF. Sinking Fund,  
GG. Materials, labor, etc.,  
HH. Cash on band,  
II. Balance to construction,  
$ 
CONSTRUOTION.
Balance, $ 
JJ. Extension main lines, 
KK. Meters,  
LL. Hydrants, ..  
MM. Reservoir,  
NN. Land damages,  
———— 
W. Net cost of works to date. 
X. Bonded debt,  
Y. Value of Sinking Fund, December
   

|
Report of Water Board. |
CONSUMPTION. |
 Population,  school census,  Estimated population on line of pipe,  Estimated population supplied, |
 Estimated total number of gallons
consumed for the year, Passed through meters, B{. Estimated average daily consumption,
gallons,  Gallons per day to each inhabitant,  Gallons per day to each consumer, ),  Gallons per day to each service tap,  
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and cast iron. .
 From one-half inch to twenty inches.
 Extended, none small, and feet large.
 Discontinued, None
§. Mains,  -inch and upwards, miles feet
 Temporary mains less than inches, miles ft |
 Total length of distribution, miles feet
 Number of leaks,  Cost of repairs per mile, . Hydrants added, Hydrants now in use (public), ,
and private hydrants.
. See table after summary of hydrants.
 Stop gates added,  Stop gates now in use, see foot note, Table E.  

  Report of Water Board.
 Stop gates less than  -inch, None
 Number of blow-off gates  Range of pressure on main at office per
day and night, to pounds.
Main street, per day and night, to
  pounds.

 Stand pipes added,  Stand pipes now in use,  
SERVICE.

 Cement, rubber-lined, enameled and cast iron.

 ). From five-eighths to  -inch size of service.

  Leaks,  

 Extended (estimated), feet
 Discontinued,  

 Total now in use (estimated),  feet
 Services added,  

 Number now inuse,  

 Average length of service, feet
 Average cost of service, 

 Meters added,  

 Number now in use,  

 Motors and elevators discontinued, None

 Number now in use,  

| Report of Water Board. |
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER
WORKS FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO DECEMBER .
WATER COMMISSIONERS FOR CONSTRUOTION OF THE
WORKS—ELECTED BY THE TOWN OF HOLYOKE.
Wm. B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February .

JOHN DELANEY, elected March term expired
February .

JoHN KE. CuHase, elected March resigned
March,  )

Dennis Hiaeins, elected March term
expired February .

JoEL RussELL, Treasurer of the Board, elected March
  term expired February .

J. P. BucKLanpD, Clerk of Board, elected March  ,
  term expired February .

L. P. Boswortu, successor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February .

C. W. RANLEt?, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.
ENGINEERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS.

Messrs. SHEDD Sawyer, of Boston, Mass., consulting engineers.

E. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.

Davis ELLSworTH, engineers, sucded E. C.
Davis, May,  .

Mosks STEVENS, pipe inspector. .

  Report of Water Board.
WATER COMMISSIONERS ELECTED BY THE OITY COUNCIL.

J. P. BucKLAND, elected February term
expired February .

Dennis Hiaains, elected February term
expired January .

JAMES G. SMITH, elected February deceased
July ,

J. A. SuLuivan, elected January term
expired January .

JAMES FE’. ALLYN, elected February term
expired January .

C. H. Hkywoop, elected July term expired
January .

TIMOTHY MERRICK, elected January term
expired January ,

Maurick Lyncu, elected January .

JAMES EK. DELANEY, elected January resignation accepted January .

Moses NEwrTon, elected January .

JAMES J. CURRAN, elected January .

OFFICERS OF THE HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.

Moses STEVENS, Superintendent, appointed February
  term expired April  resigned.

DaNnikL Hrywoop, Collector, appointed February  ,
 term expired October sucded by
E. Bolton.

E. M. Botton, Registrar, appointed October  ,
 term expired June resigned.

Report of Water Board.  

E. P. CLARK, Registrar, appointed July .

Joun D. Harpy, Superintendent, appointed May  ,
 .

E. M. Bouton, Inspector, appointed July  ;
service terminated March .

J. E. Cleary, Inspector, appointed March .

T. E. Sullivan, Inspector, appointed March .

Digitized by Google

Digitized by Google

a

 z

. *

+

 

. '
; ‘

t

‘

ft

j

 

F

f
: "
x

 

. ‘

. '

‘

;

. '

BSG Bi Ses Ue) Bon ake
PRR THO if oe
Re $a rf Se Re |
WO NSS Oe Mies YAO
  oe uRKak ye SES
Sauce ae
eiesey Sh  Dee
ee Se  
CNA ey ENey MAD P
See on racalt aame
EES Ga
 ite Az eS Se wiped ’
  BSS Pi ae ae alee Sen
s\Gein ty  Cae mea
VAN Wa sucFa mG PG: Say GS
oe w: Fie ag Bs Vewess
Sys as USS  Sean
TRY SAS
a ea AS ry sy Rime
oo Son
! ort yas $s: eae ye  :
S's? RAO OARS ayy
Late -c ea aan
 S) pl gD sity Gai oe x
CRON ele iy  Gi NY ey ACL
a AW COW pane AES a
ONO US a
eae  ele Nia
S geeys rect cS ia
GES Sis ea
 Specter ese Y, nif 
MEK ASAD el ine


