 SL Kr aes
re  
r  |
MUNICIPAL REGISTER,....  
OF THE   ss se
City of Holyokew..x
" ‘WW Mor. hye
i] Ole Ry ik
fo] E: “in,
FOR  Le ipy
CONTAINING
The Mayor’s Address,
City Government Roster,
Rules and Orders of City Council,
Annual Reports, Ete.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF GITY COUNCIL.
ra  fe Ah: 
Ca LOLKOREM AY
S hie o
 HOLYOKE, MASS,
TRANSCRIPT n Boe. OMPANY, PRINTERS,

Cif pe Phas —H' !
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In BOARD OF ALDERMEN, Jan. ,
ORDERED, The Board of Councilmen concurring, that
the Mayor be requested to furnish copy of his Inaugural Address for publication with the City Documents.
Adopted. T. D. O'BRIEN, Clerk.
Sent down for concurrence. |
z
cs:
In BoarpD oF COUNCILMEN, Jan. \
j
Concurred. .
, J. F. STAPLETON, Clerk.
| |
|
Mayor's Orrick, Jan. :
Approved.
J. F. SULLIVAN, Mayor.
E YP S
[os a
LIBRARIES ,
SI  Ve
Exch. New Hampshire State Libs
f

: oe  
| CONTENTS.
ee
PAGE
Mayor’s Address, .  
City Government, .  
, Committees of City Council, .  
Standing Committees, ,  )
| City Officers, .  ]
Fire Department, .  
School Committee, .  
Ward Officers, .  
Report of City Treasurer, .  
Schedule of Expenditures,  
City Auditor's Statement, .  
| Report of School Committee, 
, Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds, 
| Report of Inspector of Milk,  
Report of Inspector of Petroleum,  
Report of Inspector of Vinegar,  
Report of Board of Health, .  
Report of City Physician,  
Report of Chief of Police, .  
Report of City Solicitor, .  
Report of Park Commissioners,  
Report of Chief Engineer, .  
Report of City Engineer, .  
Report of Committee on Fuel and Street Lights,  
Report of Superintendent of Streets,  
Report of Overseers of the Poor,  
Report of Water Board, .  

 Gen

Bi

the |

the 
how

oO the

| othe

bles

, |

hay
Us {

 :

| ont

|  

ali

, "

Wi

be
aff

CO

thy

tr

; ®
 ff\jayor’s fAddress.

Gentlemen of the City Council: Oo :

By the favor and suffrage of our fellow citizens and
the voters of Holyoke we have been elected to carry on
the city government during the year  and we are .
now assembled to inaugurate and initiate ourselves into
the duties before us; and upon this labor, as upon all
others in which we may be engaged, we besh God’s
blessing.

We are here in the discharge of public trust that we
have accepted at the hands of the people, and it behooves
us to assume the responsibilities imposed upon us with
a purpose to meet them in manner that will satisfy |
ourselves and those who confide in us.

" The welfare of our beloved city is now in your hands,
and it is for you to show that the public trust has been
well placed. With right motives in yourselves, and
with faith and reliance in Him who is over all, there need
be no failure on your part to so conduct our municipal
affairs as to secure the benefit and well-being of this
community. |

In the performance of your public duties you may at
times receive more or less criticism. You may well distrust being Holyoke officials if you do not get criticised.

  Mayors Address.

By the exercise of your best judgment, however, and
persistent devotion to principle and right, doubt not
your record will be creditable one when the term of
your Office shall have closed.

Some of us have held municipal offices heretofore, and,
I trust, fully realize the responsibility resting upon us.
To those of you who are here for the first time extend
my congratulations in having received the public confidence and favor.

Let us each and all see to it that every public act of
ours shall, during the year, be for the greatest good of
the greatest number dwelling in this community. Let
integrity, economy and wise regard for the best inter.
est of the city mark our every official act.

In each inaugural address which have delivered here
I have urged as forcibly as could that the first and
great rule of conductin the discharge of our duties was
that local interests should be held subordinate to the
general welfare. As Il address new members of the city
government, in part at least, each time, and as feel
more and more impressed with the conviction that our
success will be measured by the degree of our fidelity to
this principle of action, shall make no apology for
forcing it upon your attention.

My observation before entered upon my duties here,
and my experience since, both convince me that local
selfishness and jealousies, and the combination of different local interests to secure by co-operation what each
separately would fail to secure from the city government
upon its own merits, are the greatest menaces to wise
and just administration of the affairs of the city.

Mayors Address.  

The wants of each locality should receive due consideration, but every measure proposed should be weighed
and considered separately, upon its own merits, and |
with proper regard for the needs of other localities,
and we should conscientiously determine whether it will
justify tax upon the whole city.

Our manufacturing and mercantile interests are in a
flourishing condition and bid fair to so continue in the
future. During the past year the enterprising Newton
family have added one more to the many paper manufactories in our city. The Lyman Mills have finished
a substantial addition to their plant and intend to add still
more in the nearfuture. The Keating Wheel Company,
who will employ many hands, is another substantial
addition to our varied industries, and many others are
enlarging their manufacturing capacity. Many substantial dwellings have been constructed during the past year
thus giving evidence that our citizens have faith in the
future of our city, and are here toremain. About year
ago had the honor to call into existence an organization
of business men called the Holyoke Board of Trade which
now numbers over one hundred members, all active
business men, meeting regularly, not for social intercourse alone but for the purpose of encouraging and aiding the business interests and prosperity of our city, and
although yet in its infancy without plans fully formulated, its influence for good is being felt, and firmly
believe that the time is not far distant when the Holyoke
Board of Trade will be one of the leading features in the
business enterprise of our city. The development and
growth of this city has been rapid, its increase in wealth

  Mayors Address

and population from decade to decade is fully attested
by reliable statistics. The inducements which have
been offered by the establishment and maintenance of
good schools, well organized fire department, good highways, well lighted streets, large and effective water
supply and liberal appropriation made for other public improvements have tended to secure this growth.

Competition exists between municipalities as well as
between individuals, and the greater the advantages
offered by city for education, for protection of life and
property, for security to health, for public enjoyment ‘
and for the extension and development of trade, so much
the more will individuals avail themselves of these
inducements and by their coming within its borders
quicken its advancement.

The action which you will take in legislating upon the
important matters to which allusion has been made, if
wisely directed, will inspire confidence in the people, and
the capital now invested in this city will not only be
retained, but others having money to invest will here
obtain the advantages which tbey are seeking.

Gentlemen, with these remarks before you, let me
now call your attention to the financial condition of the
city, also the wants and urgent necessities of the several]
departments:

Mayors Address.  
FINANCE.
Liabilities December Ist,  :
Municipal Bonds, due Oct. 
Municipal Bonds, due Oct.  
Water Bonds, due July  
Holyoke Westfield R. R. Bonds, due 
Holyoke Westfield R. Bonds, due 
Holyoke South Hadley Bridge Bonds,  ,
Bills Payable (notes), 
Total Liabilities,  
Assets December :
Cash in Treasury,  
Cash in Water Department,  
Uncollected taxes,  
Uncollected sidewalk assessments,  
Uncollected sewer assessments,  
Sinking Fund for Municipal
Bonds,  
Sinking Fund for Water Bonds,  
Net indebtedness Dec. 
Net indebtedness Dec. 
Increase during  
Notes to the amount of  will become due
during the year  .

*
  Mayor's Address. |
SINKING FUND FOR PAYMENT OF MUNICIPAL |
BONDS.
The report of the Commissioners  as follows: |
Amount of Fund Dec.  |
Received: |
Appropriation  
Interest on City Bonds,  
Interest on Mortgage Loans, 
Dividends on Bank Stock,  
Interest on deposits, 
Total amount of Fund, 
Invested as follows:
Loans on Real Estate, “
Thirty-nine shares of Bank Stock,  
City of Worcester per cent
Bonds,  
City of Holyoke per cent
Bonds,  
City of Holyoke Note, §,  
Premium on Bonds and Stocks,  
Expense account, 
Cash on hand,  
) ———— 
The Commissioners are specially fitted for their office
and the people can rely upon it that the Fund is safely
and wisely invested.
|


, Mayors Address.  
HOLYOKE WESTFIELD RAILROAD, AND
WATER WORKS.

The city has been peculiarly fortunate in its great
investments.

The City Hall, aside from its usefulness, is standing
monument to the city, one evidence of the faith which
its founders had in the future of the city and by its
solidity representing the strong foundations upon whieh
our city is built.

The Water Works department, considered merely as
an investment, is perhaps unsurpassed in Western Massachusetts. Good judges are of opinion that capitalists
could afford as an investment to take the Water Works,
and in consideration thereof assume all the city debt.

They have always been conducted on strictly business
principles and with much ability. It was thought by
many that the Whiting Street reservoir was uncalled for
at the time it was built, but the remarkably dry season
we have just passed, and the general scarcity of water,
proved the wisdom of the Commissioners in the building
of this reservoir as in the general management of the
department.

The Registrar of the department conducts the business of his office with the courtesy ofa gentleman. It
may be considered digression, but beg to add that in
these times of rumors of wars it is to be hoped that he
will long continue to serve the city; and by thus
remaining in our midst continue to serve as model for
our young soldiers.

Although water rates are very reasonable here, the
Water Works plant continues to improve, and hand’
  Mayors Address.
some sum is being annually set aside for paymentof the |
bonds.
The Commissioners report the amount of the sinking
fund for the payment of water bonds as follows:
Amount of Fund, Dec.  
Set apart during the year,  
Interest on investments, ),  
Total, Dec.  ,
RECEIPTS.
Balance from  
Water Rents  
Interest on Meters  
Service pipe   |
Interest on deposits  
Sundries.  
$ "
EXPENDITURES
Main pipe extension 
Service pipeextension.  
Main pipe repairs  
Repairs on service pipe  
Hydrants  
Reservoir  
Interest on Water Bonds ™
Sinking Fund   |
Sundries.  
Cash on hand  
$ 
Cost of Works, Dec. 
‘

Mayors Address.  

The stock of the Holyoke Westfield Railroad has
ceased to bea drug. The wisdom of the investment of
the eity in this road is beginning to be realized. Besides
the effect the building of the road had in cheapening
rates, the stock is now worth more than par. Dec.  ,
 the company declared per cent dividend, and
set apart sum to provide for taking up the last issue
of  bonds which come due in  The earnings
of the road were  larger in than the previous
year, and there is reason to believe that the earnings
will continue to increase.

The company during the year refunded the first issue
of  per cent bonds at per cent.

The last issue of  of bonds also bear interest at
  per cent, and when this issue is paid or refunded at
  per cent, the stock will be more valuable than it is
now, assuming that the earnings of the road will not at
least decrease. think it is not advisable to sell the
stock of the city in the road, at present.

The stock is worth considerably more than it was a
year ago, and there is every reason to believe that it
will continue to increase in value.

Thus, while large portion of our present debt was
caused by the building of the Holyoke Westfield Railroad, and Water Works, our assets in the stock and the
ownership of the Water Works, at least balance our
liabilities on account of the construction of both.

The Treasurer makes the following report:

I
  Mayor's Address.
Amount received from lessees, 
Disbursements :
Fifty per cent of net earnings, 
Interest on Bonds, 
State Tax,  
Sundry expenses,  
-————— 
Carried to profit and loss, 
PARKS.

The expenditures of the Commissioners have come
within the appropriation. The sum appropriated was
$ and the sum expended was The
parks are in good condition, except the steep banks of
Prospect Park, which need frequent repair.

The Commissioners again renew their recommenda- |
tion for the purchase of about fifty acres of land on the a
northerly end of Taylor and Pleasant streets, and west
of the tracks of the Connecticut River Railroad Company, to be used for public park. The parks now in
existence are small and rather local in their use.

The time has arrived for procuring land for large
general park, if the condition of our finances will warrant
it. think the price is fixed for the above tract of fifty
acres. recommend the purchase of the land if we 
can do justice to the other pressing wants of the city.

Mountain Park, so called, may yet develop into ‘‘a

thing of beauty and joy forever,’’ but for some time, at |

least, it will be too far from the center of population to

be of very much advantage to those who would most

need its benefits.
,

Mayors Address.  
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS AN)
GROUNDS.

This is new Office and the report now made is the
first sent in from this department. The report is largely
a detailed statement of the work done upon the buildings owned by thecity, during the year, including new
buildings erected, and old buildings repaired, with the
cost of building and repairing. refer you to the
report for full information on these matters.

The Superintendent is engaged in the duty of seeing
that the buildings owned by the city are put in safe and
proper condition, by way of ventilation and otherwise.

He reports the general condition of the buildings as
fair, except the Appleton street, Chestnut street and
Lyman street school houses.

These buildings need considerable repair. He joins
the Engineer in saying thatall the outside wood work of
the city buildings should be painted the coming year.
You will no doubt consider this recommendation.

He also says that as the city carries its own insurance,
every building should be provided with means for
extinguishing fires. heartily concur in this recommendation.

I think the work done in this department during the
past year proves the wisdom of forming it.

In accordance with the requirements of the ordinance
creating the office, the Superintendent in his report gives
the valuation of the city property as  I
refer you to his report fora detailed statement of the
valuation.

  Mayors Address.
CITY PHYSICIAN, AND BOARD OF HEALTH.

As the City Physician has failed to send in his report
Iam unable to give you any definite information as to
the condition of his department.

The ‘‘grip ’’ which was thought lightly of when it
first made its appearance two years ago, has become a
serious matter.

It is probably no worse here than it has been elsewhere. It is hoped that with colder weather the
scourge will abate.

I beg to add that the report of the City Physician
was handed in since the above was written and refer
you to the report for details.

HOSPITAL, AND PUBLIC LIBRARY.

The Kindness and generosity of some of our citizens
and especially of our manufacturers, will, during the
coming year give usa Hospital which will be blessing
to the unfortunate people for whom it is provided. The
fact that many of those who will have occasion for the
use of the Hospital will be persons who will receive
injuries in the mills has probably been some inducement
to the manufacturers in securing General Hospital.

The thanks of the public are due to all those who
have so liberally contributed towards its erection.

We are no nearer Public Library building, at the
public expense, than we have been. |

There are so many calls which must be met that they
take al] the money which the law allows us to raise by

Mayors Address.  
taxation, so we are now waiting for some generous benefactor who will immortalize himself, and be of great usefulness to the public, by giving us Public Library
building.

SCHOOLS.

Perhaps the first thing that strikes one upon looking
at the report of the Superintendent of Schools is the
closeness of the census taken by the general government
and that taken by the Truant Officers. The United
States census for  gave us population of  ,
and the census taken by the Truant Officers the same
year made the population or more than the
general government census.

Each census appears to verify the correctness of the
other.

The general enrollment of pupils in the public schools
is  decrease within year of  The total
expenditure forthe public schools is  or an
increase during the year of about the expenditures for being Thus while the school
enrollment has decreased during the year, the
expenditures have increased almost .

When it is considered that the expenditures by the
School Committee are of somewhat fixed and definite
character, this statement of the expenditures strikes me
as alittle remarkable. No portion of the expense of
repairs or improvements upon the buildings, nor of the
cost of fuel which is consumed, is included in the
expenditures by the School Committee.

There were paid in salaries to day teachers in  ,

  Mayors Address.

$  and in the year   or 
more in than in  with less scholars upon
the rolls of the schools. [am far from recommending
that any policy should be adopted for underpaying our
school teachers. The position of public school teacher
is an honorable one and should be fairly if not liberally
paid, but suppose that generally they had been so
paid.

Iam aware that inequalities may exist in the salaries
of teachers and that in individual cases teachers may
not be sufficiently paid for the work done, and justice to
them requires an increase of salary in such cases, but
the total increase in salaries in the year  and when
the number of pupils had decreased, is in my judgment
so large as to arrest public attention.

No harm can come from discussion of the subject,
nor from calling the attention of the School Committee
to the matter.

If the increase in all cases bas been fair as between the
teachers and the public, very well; all the public can ask
of the Committee, is that they shall seriously consider on
its merits every application for an increase of salary,
and if justice require it increase the salary regardless of
what the total amount of salaries will be.

The cost per pupil in was in ;
in in  and in but
in it jumped to From to the cost
per pupil increased and this period included the
time when the cost was increased by the purchase of text
books by the city, while the cost in increased 
per pupil more than it was the previous year.

Mayor's Address.  

The facts in relation to the expenditures by the School
Committee may show that they were no more than they
should be, but having no more information in regard to

. them than can gather from the abstract of their report
furnished me by the Superintendent of Schools, and the
expenses of previous years, have thought the matter
of sufficient importance to call special attention to it.

The Superintendent gives no reason in the above
mentioned abstract, for the decrease of the number of
pupils upon the school rolls. It is safe to say, however,
that it is not because of any decrease in the population,
nor in general school attendance, but probably because
some of the pupils were withdrawn from the public
schools and placed in parochial and private schools.

The matter of new High School building appears to
be in abeyance for the time. The question of High
School site with other questions submitted by the Committee and which will be found in their report, will, I

' trust, receive your earnest attention. .
PAUPER DEPARTMENT.

The expense of this department during the year was
$ this includes some small purchases of live
stock for the Poor Farm, and farm implements.

Good homes have been found for thirty-two children
during the year Iam not aware that there is anything
in the department requiring special mention, nor does

the report of the Overseer of the Poor suggest any matter
requiring such mention. The department appears to be
running smoothly, and is in ‘‘flourishing’’ condition,
according to the report of the Overseer.

 () Mayors Address.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.
A new era has opened to our Fire department. had
been of the opinion that the efficiency of the department
would be increased by putting it in the hands of Commission, and during my last term of office as Mayor the
Legislature passed an act, Chap.  of the Acts of  ,
authorizing the City Council to put the department into |
the hands of Commission. An effort was made during !
my term of office to pass an ordinance placing the depart- |
ment in the hands of Commission, but it failed. The
effort was renewed in the early part of the administra.
tion of my saccessor, but that failed also. However :
during the last meeting of the City Council of  and
one of the last acts, if not thelast act, of that Council, ,
was to pass such an ordinance, and by the passage of |
that ordinance the Fire department ceased to be, in a
large measure, factor in city politics, consummation
which had long been hoped for by many of the well- —
wishers of the department and of the city.

May the hopes of those who believe that the placing
of the department in the hands of Commission will
increase its efficiency and remove it in large degree
from politics, be now realized.

I am pleased to note that the department continues to i
enjoy the confidence of the people, and trust that that !
confidence will never be shaken and that the efficiency of
the department will continue to increase in the hands
of what, upon the whole, is in my judgment capable
Com mission.

The Chief Engineer reports that the apparatus of the

|

Mayors Address.  
department, except the Relief steamer, is in good condition, and consists of five steam fire engines, two hook
and ladder trucks, six one-horse wagons, one aerial
ladder, one hose reel, one Chief's wagon and seventeen
horses, considering the horses as part of the apparatus.
I have not discovered inthe report the number of men
in the department, though may have overlooked it.
The names of all the members are given and the number
may be ascertained by calculation.

The Chief recommends the purchase of an engine the
coming year, to take the place of the Relief which he
says is liable to break down at any time and become
incapacitated for service. think that the condition of
our finances will hardly allow the adoption of the recommendation unless there is real necessity therefor. The
Chief says there are many cases of fires where individuals try to put them out before giving an alarm. This
may work in certain cases and perhaps may in few
cases be of advantage to the city in the matter of expense,
and to property owners in not being injured by the
too free use of water, but itis dangerous practice to
indulge in as there may be serious cases of fire caused
by waiting too long before giving the alarm, and one
serious fire caused by waiting too long may cause much
more damage and injury than number of fires which
are extinguished without giving an alarm. Not giving
an alarm should not become habit or practice among
the people. person who knows there is fire and yet
fails to give an alarm assumes grave responsibility.
The old adage ‘‘It is better to be sure than sorry”’ is
peculiarly fitted to his position.

  Mayor's Address.

The Chief makes the following recommendations among
others, all of which are worthy of your consideration:
In view of the fact that the city is under large expenses
for extra horse hire, that it purchase three pair of horses
for use on the sprinkling carts and for other city work,
and use the horses in connection with the fire apparatus
in case of fire; that copper wire instead of iron be used
in the fire alarm telegraph system; that  -inch gauges
and indicators combined be placed in each engine house;
that because of the weight of hose wagons two horses
should be used instead of one; that fire alarm box be
placed on all school houses, and that few more permanent men be added to the department. refer you to
his report for the reasons for these recommendations.
There was only one serious fire during the year, and
that occured April in the wood piles near the saw mill.
Effective service was rendered by the Springfield department in extinguishing the fire. trust we may never
have occasion to reciprocate, but if we do hope it will
be done generously.

The total loss by fire during the year is reported by
the Chief as about on which was insurance
amounting to about |

These figures show that we were quite fortunate in
the matter of fires during the year, nor were the fires
attended with any loss of life or serious injuries. The
total expense of the department during the year was
about the exact figures are given in the
report.

Upon the whole the department appears to be handled
well and is in an efficient condition.

Mayor's Address.  
CITY ENGINEER.

The Engineer reports that the Elmwood engine house
is completed and that the Ward Three engine house is
nearing completion—both substantially built. He says
all the bridges are in good condition except the bridge
over the second level canal near the county bridge, and
that this should be replaced by new one.

In considering what portion of the urgent work for the 
coming year you will be able to perform, you will no
doubt take this bridge into account. You mav not find
the building of new bridge, however, to be of so much
urgency as other matters, but  is proper subject for
your consideration.

The Engineer thinks that the paving of High street
with asphalt blocks is wise departure. The only
objection to it is its smoothness and consequent slipperiness. He thinks, however, that as horses and drivers
become accustomed to the pavement, this objection will
in great measure be removed. High street is peculiarly
fitted to give this pavement fair trial, because, while it
is very busy street, it is straight and level, and there
is comparatively little heavy teaming done upon the
street. The pavement gives satisfaction to the business

. men upon the street and, think, to the public at large.
It is more desirable to keep this street in good condition than any other street in the city. trust it will give
as good satisfaction in the matter of wear as it does in
appearance and cleanliness.

The Engineer states that there is no safe place to keep
the accumulation of plans and papers of his office, and

  Mayors Address.
recommends that large fire-proof vault be secured for 
the purpose of safely preserving them.

It may be desirable to secure vault as recommended,
and the matter should be considered.

The Engineer startles us by the number of things
which he says it is necessary to do in his department,
and by joining the Superintendent of Streets in saying
that we may expert another break in the Front street
sewer.

I should hope that the public property is in substantially good and safe condition, and that portion of the
defects, at least, discovered by the Engineer is more a
matter of taste than of substance.

He says all public buildings, except those lately finished, are in need of repair.

We cannot perform very extensive repairs upon all of
them in one year, but we shall try to keep them ina |
safe and reasonably good condition. refer you to the |
report of the Engineer for detailed statement of the
work of hisoffice. The total expense of his department
he reports as .

CITY SOLICITOR.

The year just closed has been heavy one in the law
department of the city.

For this there has been number of causes, the prin- |
cipal being that the city was interested in several matters before the Legislature, and the unusual severity of
the winter, which made it difficult to keep the streets of |
the city in proper condition for travel, and the result was
that the city had to respond in large number of cases

Mayors Address.  
where the defects were alleged to be accumulations of
snow and ice.

In this climate it is impossible to keep the streets at
all times in safe condition for travel, and it would seem
that cities are held toa greater degree of liability than
is reasonable, on account of ice and snow defects.

The Solictor reports that at the time he assumed the
duties of his office there were four actions pending
against the city, and eighteen actions and prodings
have been instituted against the city during the year.
I refer you to his report for description of each case
and the disposition made of it.

Among other hearings during the year was one as to
the apportionment of the cost of building the Holyoke
and South Hadley Falls bridge. The total cost of the

, structure was found to be and the share of the
city was fixed at consider this very favorable apportionment for the city.

The bonds of the city have been issued for the sum of
$ and the share of the city paid.

A first-class bridge now connects Holyoke with South
Hadley Falls.

In the near future we will have to provide for paying
our proportion of the cost of the Holyoke and Willimansett bridge.

Our proportions of the expense of these two bridges
makes quite tax upon our resources, but that is the
penalty we pay for having our city built upon the river
which furnishes us with the ‘‘greatest water power in
the world.’’

The Solicitor recommends the enforceinent of the ordi Mayor’s Address.
nance in relation to keeping the sidewalks free from
snow and ice, and that the patrolmen should be
instructed to keep lookout for defects and dangerous I
places, and report the same, so that the defects could be
removed. think that the latter recommendation is in |
force in some cities, and it ought to be adopted here. !
STREET LIGHTS.
There are now electric lights, gas lamps and  
naphtha lamps in use inthe city.
There were electric lights added during the year.
The total cost for lighting was  of which sum
$  was paid the Holyoke Water Power Com |
pany for electric lights, and  for gas lights.
We some time since parted with our reputation for |
being ‘‘ the poorest lighted city in New England.”’ |
MILK, PETROLEUM AND VINEGAR.
, The Inspector conveys tbe interesting information that
there are about quarts of milk used in the city
daily.
This is one of the indications of what good market
Holyoke is for the farmers of the surrounding country. |
Farms are worth more and farming pays in this vicinity |
largely because of the excellent market for farming produce which Holyoke affords. |
The Inspector reports that he has inspected |
barrels of kerosene oil during the year, and that the
quality of milk, petroleum and vinegar sold in the city
is good, and that he has had no occasion to institute
criminal prodings against any dealer during the year.

Mayors Address.  
PUBLIC WORKS.

In this department has been spent during the past
year the large sum of divided as follows:
Highwaysand Bridges, 
Asphalt Paving,  
Street Sprinkling, 
Sidewalks,  
Sewers and Drains,  

Total, 

This large outlay was probably necessary, but it is
hoped that this department will bear some retrenchment
the coming year.

The item of sprinkling streets made its first appearance
this year and tends to swell the total. It must hereafter be taken into account in the estimate for the
annual appropriations. Though the item seems to be
quite large, there are, perhaps, few persons in the city
who would favor having the sprinkling of the streets at

the public expense dispensed with.

This is an improvement which has come to stay. The
item was considerably increased this year by the purchase of thirteen watering carts at an expense of
$ leaving  for the running expenses.
With time and experience the expense of watering the
streets will be lessened in proportion with the work
done.

While the area to be sprinkled has increased, the

  Mayors Address.

work will become so systematized that the expense
should decrease. The work is new, and has not as yet
thoroughly got its bearings. The system of watering
streets will improve with time.

In view of the scarcity of graveland the great expense
of hauling it to points where it is needed, the Superintendent of Streets is of the opinion that it is advisable to
begin to macadamize the streets and recommends the
purchase of road roller to be used for the purpose. If
the city does not purchase roller, he is of opinion that
the macadam should be purchased ready for use at such
time as the city felt able to purchase road roller. He
thinks the city can buy it about as cheaply as it can
make it. think that this is subject which should
receive your thoughtful consideration. macadamized
street is much better than graveled street, if the
streets can be macadamized for about what it will cost to
gravel them, aad even if macadam should costa little
more than gravel.

I think it is advisable to use macadam. Whether the
city buys the macadam or hasa macadam plant of its
own, the most central streets in the city, outside the
paved ones, at least, should be macadamized.

Iam not very well acquainted with the expense of
macadam, butif it be true that it is not much larger
than graveling, then think we should begin to use
macadam. Besides, it is easier to keep macadamized
street clean than  graveled street, as the street
sweeper may be used on the former.

There are many persons who favor the use of brick
instead of macadam, and [am free to say that am of

Mayor's Address.  
those who believe that the city should, at least, give
brick fair trial.

In this connection desire to add that believe more
of an effort should be made to keep the streets clean. It
may be advisable to keep man witha light team all
the time in the sammer months, picking up papers and
loose rubbish in the streets. Few things look worse
in public street than loose papers.

The Saperintendent recommends that special appropriations be made to widen and improve the Springfield
road between Springdale and Wilkinson's farm; to
pave High street from Dwight street to Cabot street, and
Appleton street from Main street to the driveway of
the Merrick lumber yard. He says also that something
must be done in the near future to provide sewage for
Elmwood and Oakdale.

The wants of Public Works department in growing
city must necessarily be large, but the condition of our
finances will probably allow us to dv only the most
necessary things the coming year. trust you will carefally study the wants of this department, and that your
conclusions in regard to them will be just, between the
people to be specially benefited and the city at large.

The Superintendent conveys the usual intelligence
that another break may be expected in the Front street
sewer, at any time.

The expense of repairing the last break was so large—
* —that trust we will not be obliged to provide for anew break the coming year. The Superintendent thinks that the new policy adopted of recoating
uneven brick sidewalks with concrete is success, and
ought to be continued.

  Mayors Address.

It is fortunate if experience, which is the best teacher,
has proved recoating to be successful in the matter of
repairing and improving the sidewalks, as the method is
cheap and the walks good.

I presume that the principal doubt in this method is in
regard to the durability.

I shall be pleased to learn that this test will be in
favor of recoating. think it will.

I shall close my discussion of this department by hoping you will see your way clear the coming year to have
the gravel or cinder walk on the westerly side of Elm
street, between Suffolk and Appleton streets, replaced
with brick or concrete. Thatis the only largely traveled
and the only street fully built up in the heart of the city
that now recall that has not permanent walk, and
Elm street will not be complete until walk is put in
at the place designated.

POLICE AND LIQUOR QUESTION.

As upon former occasions IT shall consider these subjects together.

The Chief reports the total number of arrests during
the year as males, females—and of the
total number were arrested for drunkenness. This is
an object lesson of the evils of the liquor traffic. Deducting from  and deducting from the balance all
those arrests. breaches of the peace, etc., which are connected with the use of liquor and drunkenness, and we
begin to realize what an awfu! mischief-maker rum is.
No social question of modern times is more difficult to
grapple with than the liquor question.

Mayors Address.  

The sale of liquor is an evil which on account of the
general demand for it must be tolerated. Even the man
who hates drunkenness will drink, himself, and say it is
proper to use it in moderation.

At the dinner parties of the highest in the land wine
holds the place of honor, and no course served at the
festive board is discussed more keenly and with more
relish than wine. Appetites in all people are much the
same, and while the wealthy can indulge in wine, the
common people must put up with plain gin. In some
form or other all grades of society indulge in the use of
intoxicating liquor.

This general desire for itis what baffles the law and
law officers, in their efforts to enforce the law against
its illegal sale.

The seller and the consumer join in covering up the
illegal sale and in shielding the alleged seller.

While it is probably impossible to totally prevent the
illegal sale of liquor, the law may be enforced so as to
greatly diminish such sale.

I shall expect the Police department to be as ener) getic in enforcing the law against the illegal sale of
intoxicating liquor as they are in enforcing any other
breach of the criminal law,

The Chief reports that the department consists of one
Chief, one Captain, one Lieutenant, and thirty-three
patrolmen, and he says the forceis in good and effective
condition, though there was considerable sickness and
two deaths among its members during the year.

I regret tosay that there have been some rumors of
want of discipline in the force, recently. think the

  Mayors Address.
force should not rely too strongly upon the permanent
tenure of their office.
They may be removed for any cause which the Aldermen may consider sufficient, and removals should be
made if necessary to maintain the discipline and effect.
iveness of the force. It will be unfortunate both for the :
force and the public if the people should lose confidence
in their Police department.
The Chief reports the expense of the department as
$ He renews the recommendation of his pred- |
ecessor that the department should adopt the Police |
Signal system and he also recommends that suitable |
room should be secured for the use of the Police Matron |
appointed for the first time in March,  The Chief |
says this appointment has given general satisfaction and
I heartily join in his recommendation that suitable
room should be secured for the use of the Matron. |
CONCLUSION. |
Gentlemen of the City Council: !
The citizens have entrusted important interests in our charge. ‘
We are honored by their confidence, and we owe it to them and |
ourselves faithfully to endeavor to meet their just expectations.
We cannot always be perfect in our judgment, but we should
strive earnestly that it may not be clouded by personal interests, |
sympathy, passion or prejudice, and work together in harmony
to promote the interests of the public whose servants we are.
If we labor with this spirit and purpose, we shall be true to
ourselves and our constituency, and may justly expect that our
work will in the end commend itself to public approval.
Let us execute the trust imposed upon us by our fellow citizens
|
| |
| ,
|
|
|

Mayors Address.  
faithfully and to the best of our ability. We should not consider too carefully how our actions will affect ourselves personally, or how it will affect us politically, but what are our duties,
and what is for the best interest of the city, remembering that
it is better to be right than to be credited with being right when
we are wrong. Still, let us cultivate the spirit of unity and
harmony, that our administration may be satisfactory to ourselyes and the people we represent. .

In conclusion congratulate you on your election to the
offices you hold, and desire on this occasion to return to the
citizens of Holyoke my grateful appreciation of the honor they
have conferred upon me in the emphatic vote by which they
elected me to the office of Mayor for the third time, and desire
to assure them that it will be an incentive to extra effort to perform the duties committed to my care, with fidelity and integrity. Let us remember that while it is an honor to be thus
chosen, if we neglect to properly perform or fail in the discharge of our duties, that honor will be changed to discredit.

Therefore let me urge upon you the importance of punctual
attendance at all meetings of the Committees as well as of the
Boards. Do not act hastily on important matters. Do not vote
any work until the money is first appropriated to pay the bills.

When your Committees are appointed see that accurate records are kept and approved at your regular meetings. Let all
matters be properly deliberated in your Committees. Allow
no member to order work to be performed without authority
from the Committee. It may seem superfluous to call attention
to these things, but know that there have been times when
these simple rules have been violated, and bad precedents are
not easily overthrown, and nothing can be lost in doing business
in business-like way.

  Mayor's Address.
Thus may you perform well the duties allotted to you and
carry into effect the solemn obligations you have this day
assumed, and at the expiration of your terms of office retire with
the consciousness of duty well and faithfully performed.
,  

GOVERNMENT
OF THE .
 .
MAYOR,
HON. JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
PRESIDENT BOARD OF ALDERMEN,
ALLEN HIGGINBOTTOM.
ALDERMEN,
| Warp  —WILLIAM HANEY.
Warp  —ANTOINE MARCOTTE.
Warp  —MICHAEL CONNORS.
Warp  —PATRICK W. SHEA. |
Warp  —ALLEN HIGGINBOTTOM.
Warp -MEDERIC J. LAPORTE.
Warp  —FREDERICK C. STEELE.
CLERK,
THOMAS D. O’BRIEN.

Common Council.
HENRY D. WILLIAMS, PRESIDENT.
WARD TI.
JOSEPH HEBERT, HENRY L. MOHAN,
JOIIN H. RYAN.
WARD ITI.
JOHN BLACK, JOSEPH BLAIR,
FRED DAZE.
WARD ITI.
MAX G. BURKHARDT, ULRIC PERREAULT,
PAUL SCHUBACIL
WARD IV.
FRANK O. BLANCHETTE, EUGENE SIIEA,
DANIEL P. SULLIVAN,
WARD V.
WILLIAM L. BISHOP, PATRICK II BRENNAN,
WILLIAM B. MILES.
WARD VI.
FRED Il. GILPATRICK, GEORGE E. PICKUP,
FRANK CG. WEBBER.

City Government.  
WARD VIT.
LAWRENCE H. FORTIER, CHAS. H. McCOLLISTER,
HENRY D. WILLIAMS.
CLERK,
JOHN F. STAPLETON.
CITY CLERK,
THOMAS D. O'BRIEN.
CITY MESSENGER,
WILLIAM T. WALSH.
CLERKS OF COMMITTEES. .
WILLIAM T. WALSH. .
JOHN D. WALSII.

Committees of City Council.
JOINT STANDING COMMITTEES.

AccounTs—Aldermen Connors and Haney Councilmen Miles, Daze and Ryan.

City Property Aldermen Connors, Higginbottom
and Laporte; Councilmen Black, McCollister, Shea and
Mohan.

City ENGINEERING Aldermen Laporte and Steele;
Councilmen Miles, Perreault and Sullivan.

CLaimMs Aldermen Laporte, Marcotte and Shea;
Councilmen Brennan, Hebert, Perreault and McCollister.

Epucation-—Aldermen Steele and Shea; Councilmen
Schubach, Blair and Ryan.

Financk The Mayor; President of the Common
Council Alderman Higginbottom Councilmen Webber
and Burkhardt.

Firt DEPARTMENT—Aldermen Marcotte, Haney and
Laporte Councilmen Blanchette, Bishop, Fortier and
Perreault. ,

FUEL AND STREET LIGHTs—Aldermen Higginbottom,
Marcotte and Connors; Councilmen Fortier, Webber,
Sullivan and Mohan.

Joint Standing Committees.  

HIGHWAYs AND BripGrs—Aldermen Steele, Shea and
Marcotte Councilmen Pickup, Hebert, Burkhardt and
Bishop.

PAaUPER DEPARTMENT Aldermen Marcotte, Steele
and Haney Councilmen Burkhardt, Miles, Sullivan and
Gilpatrick.

PriIntiING—Alderman Haney; Councilmen Miles and
Gilpatrick.

SEWERS AND Dratns—Aldermen Shea, Connors and
Haney Councilmen Daze, Gilpatrick, McCollister and
Brennan.

STATE AtbD—The Mayor; Alderman Higginbottom ;
Councilmen Blair, Schubach and Fortier.

|
Standing Committees.
i
BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
ELECTIONS— Aldermen Steele, Laporte and Shea.
ENROLLMENT—Aldermen Connors, Higginbottom and
Haney. ,
Lic—ENsES—Aldermen Higginbottom, Shea, Connors,
Haney, Marcotte, Laporte and Steele.
ORDINANCES—Aldermen Steele, Marcotte and Connors.
PoticE Aldermen Connors, Laporte and Higgin- '
bottom. |
SIDEWALKS—Aldermen Laporte, Higginbottom, Shea, |
Connors, Marcotte, Steele and Haney. |
COMMON COUNCIL. |
ELEcTIoNs—Councilmen Sullivan, Blair and Webber.
ENROLLMENT—Councilmen Black, Shea and Gilpat- |
rick. |
ORDINANCES Councilmen Brennan, Blanchette and
Pickup.

City Officers.
CITY TREASURER,
Dennie L. Farr, Office, City Hall |
Chosen at Municipal Election.
AUDITOR OF ACCOUNTS.

Thomas D. O’Brien, Office, room No.  City Hall
Chosen Annually by Concurrent Vote of City Council.
SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.

Henry Winkler, Office, Citv Hall
Chosen Annually by Joint Ballot of City Council.

CITY ENGINEER.

Edward Walther, Office, City Hall
Chosen every Three Years by Concurrent Vote of City
Council. Term Expires  .

CITY SOLICITOR.

William Hamilton, Office, Main Street

. Chosen Annually by Concurrent Vote of City Council.

  City Officers.
CITY PILPYSICTAN.
Dr. Stephen A. Mahoney, Office, Maple Street
Appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen.
ASSESSORS OF TAXES.
Seymour E. Gates. Term expires  .
James J. Dowd. Term expires  .
John B. Laroche. Term expires  .
Chosen by Concurrent Vote of City Council.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
Peter J. Donnelly,
Appointed by the Mayor and Confirmed by Joint Vote of City Couucil.
Term expires  .
LAMPLIGHTER.
James F’. Greaney.
Chosen Annually by Joint Ballot of City Council.
, OVERSEERS OF THE POOR,
Jeremiah F. Sullivan, Mayor.
Henry D. Williams, President of the Common Council.
Thomas O’ Donnell. Term expires  .
Richard Gilday. Term expires  .
Amede F. Gingras. Term expires  .
Chosen by Joint Ballot of City Council.

City Officers.  
Jeremiah F. Sullivan, Chairman, ez-officio.
Thomas O’ Donnell, Almoner.
BOARD OF HEALTH.
Timothy Sullivan, Term expires  
Dr. Joseph C. E. Godin, Chairman, Term expires  
Dr. Stephen A. Mahoney
Appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen.
CITY AGENTS IL. W. R. R. CO.

Anthony H. Ryan, James M. Clark,
Charles  D. Colson, John K. McCarthy,
Ernest Lovering.

Chosen by Joint Ballot of City Council.
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
William  Loomis, Term expires May 
John O’ Donnell, Term expires May 
Thomas J. Gibson, Term expires May 
George Spamer, Term expires May 
James Barnes, Term expires May 
Appointed by the Mayor and Confirmed by Joint Vote
of City Council.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.
Ashton E. Hemphill, Term expires May 
John J. Nugent, Term expires May 
Charles H. Roy, Term expires May 
Appointed by the Mayor and Aldermen.
Thomas D. O’Brien, City Clerk, ez-officio.

  City Officers.
COMMISSIONERS OF TILE WHITING STREET FUND.
Jeremiah F. Sullivan, Mayor, ez officio.
Dennie L. Farr, Treasurer, ez-officio.
Mrs. Albert Morris, Term expires March 
Mrs. Jolin J. Prew, Term expires March 
Mrs. Dr. J. J. O?Connor,  Term expires March 
Chosen by Concurrent Vote of City Council.
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
Martin P. Conway, Chairman, Term expires  
Moses Newton, Treasurer, Term expires  
James J. Curran, Term expires  
Chosen by Joint Ballot of City Council.
WATER REGISTRAR.
Embury P. Clark, Office, room No.  City Hall
Chosen by Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT WATER WORKS.

John D. Hardy, Office, room No.  City Hall
Chosen by Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPIE.

John Castle, No. Beacon Avenue
Appointed by Board of Fire Commissioners.

City Officers.  
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds.)
R. B. Johnson, Term expires  
George W. Prentiss, Term expires  
Lemuel Sears, Term expires  
Chosen by Concurrent Vote of City Council.
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
Appointed Annually by the Mayor and Aldermen.
Chief of Police, VALENTINE J. O’ DONNELL.
Captain of Police, Patrick HERBERT.
Lieutenant of Police, TimotHiy HALry.
PATROLMEN.
Michael Shine, Frank Priest,
Maurice D. Fenton, Henry W. Chamberlin,
Richard Peters, Patrick J. Devereaux,
Dennis Mack, George L, Dickinson,
Henry J. Campbell, William F. Quirk,
William E. Blackmer, Frank J. Gallagher,
Patrick Sullivan, John A. Powers,
Patrick F. Ryan, Francis H. Hastings,
Michael F. Lynch, John A. Geran,
Daniel F. Dowd, Cornelius Curran,
Thomas F. Riley, Peter A. Cullen,
Daniel S. Cronin, James B. Griffin,

  City Officers.
John A. Davis, Patrick P. O’Sullivan,
Cornelius J. Louney, John Moriarty,
Michael C. Murphy, Jeremiah J. Linehan,
Charles H. Coderre, Matthew Doherty,
Patrick J, Reardon.
SPECIAL POLICE.

Ward One.
John J. Sullivan, John D. Hardy,
John M. Sullivan, Fred Hughes,
Charles C. Hunter, Charles B. Ross,

Edward Berry.

Ward Two. |
H. H. Carter, James Lapoint,
John Vaugh, Fenton McCarthy.

Ward Three.
John Schmidt, Timothy Murphy,
Adolph Engel, Bruno Ezold,
Albin Greunert, Albert Bozenhardt,
Paul Greunert, Albert Uschmann,
Charles Sittard, Michael Moriarty.

Ward Four.
Trefle Lafevre, Patrick Sullivan,
James Dignan, James M. Nolan,
Patrick White, Wim. M. McNamara,

City Officers.  
Michael Baker, Cornelius O’ Leary,
Felix Proulx, Thomas Leonard,
John Rohan, Dennis Donahue.

Ward Five.
M. F. Shea, W. W. Ward,
Henry Coombs, William W. Jenks,
Bartholomew F. Griffin, Philip Griffin, }
Joseph Duhaime, William P. Cummings,
Daniel W. Young, George Tebedo,
J. J. Linehan, W. F. Kennedy, |
Joseph LaFrance, Thomas O’ Donnell,
C. E. Craw, Thomas J. Connery,
Owen Natus, F. Carmody.

Ward Siz.

Michael F. Walsh, Peter Freeman,
John H. Lee, Nathaniel W. Quint,
John Aiken, W. W. Ward,
A. D. Leeman, Maurice Bunyan,
Curtis Moore, P. J. Hartnett,
John W. Rathbun, John F. O'Connor,
William Walsh, John W. Cahill,
Patrick J. Griffin, William Engel.

Ward Seven.
Rolla F. Kelton, W. F. Wheelock,
Edward R. Crafts, Charles C. Hastings,
George W. Doane, Thomas W. Doyle,

  City Officers.
Thomas H. Sears, Michael J. Dunn,
Alexander Hamilton, Benjamin Harobine,
E. Cadieux, J. B. Woodruff,
A. P. Capen, H. A. Lunn,
Thomas Slaven, John S. Richardson,
Patrick Sammons, W. A. Judd.
CONSTABLES. ,
Sumner T’. Miller, V. J. O'Donnell,
George Nightingale, Joseph N. Prew,
C. Farrington, F.  Williams,
T. Como, Fred Laduke,
Honore isco, Charles P. Lockwood.
TRUANT OFFICERS,
Thomas W. Doyle, Edouard Cadieux |
Elected Annually by the School Committee.
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK AND STONE.
A. B. Tower, A. F. Sickman,
K. A. Ellsworth, J. M. Sickman,
T. W. Mann, M. J. Teahan,
J. J. Keane, G. F. Harvey,
T. P. Tower, F. Schmidt,
W. P. Snow, Robert Ranlet,
T. J. MacCarthy, W. E. Fitch.

City Officers.  
MEASURER OF GRAIN AND MEAL. ‘
C. B. Ross.
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
Frank L. Taber.
CARE-TAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
A. Judson Rand
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
James K. Morrill.
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
James K. Morrill.
FENCE VIEWERS.
Ss. T. Miller, Daniel O’ Connell,
A. M. Shepardson, John Bateson.
FISIT WARDEN.
Cornelius O’ Leary.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles Davis, Maurice D. Fenton,
Harvey H. Carter, Oscar Ely,
Edward R. Crafts, Michael Shine,
Dennis Mack, Henry J. Campbell,

  City Officers.
RictArd Peters, John Davis,
Daniel S. Cronin, John M. O'Connor,
Henry Bowker, W. A. Judd,
E. L. Caswell .
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
H. J. Sawtelle, F. S. Davis,
FE. M. Eames, EK. R. Crafts,
Albert A. Paul, W. Doland,
T. L. Curran, Alvin Alvord,
| KF. A. Whiting, G. H. Lynds,
W. B. Whiting, E. G. Whiting,
P. J. Moriarty, R. Gillis, ,
C. R. Evans, C. C. Hunter,
H. BE. Gaylord.
MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.
William A. Judd, C. H. Richards,
T. L. Curran, M. J. Teahan,
E. R. Crafts, C. B. Davis,
R. T. Prentiss, F. A. Whiting,
Daniel O’Connell, Jr., W. B. Whiting,
Alvin Alvord, E. G. Whiting,
G. H. Lynds, R. Gillis,
P. J. Moriarty.

City Officers.  ]

SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.
S. M. Knowles, Henry A. Chase,
A. N. Ricker, F. W. Ely, |
Casper Ranger, A. Judson Merrick,
Wm. A. Judd, M. J. Teahan.

WEIGHERS OF BEEF, PORK, LARD AND HIDES.
W. O. Judd, F.C. Steele,
Rufus B. Holmes.

Fire Department.
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
RICHARD SHEA, Term expires Feb. 
JEREMIAH J. CALLANAN, Term expires Feb. 
JOIN HILDRETH, Term expires Feb. 
CHARLES NEWCOMB, Term expires Feb. 
VAL MOQUIN, Term expires Feb. 
ROGER P. DONOGHUE, Term expires Feb. 
JOHN J. SHERIDAN, Term expires Feb. 
ROGER P. DONOGHUE, Chairman.
HORACE RESCOTT, Secretary.
CHIEF ENGINEER.
JOHN T. LYNCH.
ASSISTANT ENGINEERS,
First Assistant—THomas O'KEEFE.
Second Assistant—Tuomas E. Briait.
Third Assistant—JosSkPH LAFRANCE.
Fourth Assistant—EpWarb J. GoRMAN,
Fifth Assistant— WILLIAM Brockway.

Fire Department.  
STEAMERS.
RELIANCE ENGINE COMPANY NO.  .
John L. Rae, Foreman.
Ira J. Humes, Clerk and Treasurer.
F. A. Shelley, Engineer.
W. P. Bidwell, Stoker.
RELIEF ENGINE COMPANY NO.  .

Ignatius Schirch, Foreman.
Thomas F. Downing, Clerk and Treasurer.
G. Walker, Engineer.
C. J. Cunningham, Stoker.

STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
Melvin N. Snow, Foreman.
Clarence W. Reed, Clerk and Treasurer.
C. H. Knapp, Engineer.
L. F. Thorpe, Stoker.

ELMWOOD STEAMER.
I. N. Berry, Engineer.
Louis LaBrecque, Stoker.
RESERVE STEAMER.

Maurice J. Moynihan, Engineer.
Robert Green, Stoker.

HOSE COMPANIES.

MT. TOM, NO.  .

F. D. Moynihan, Foreman.  ,
J. J. Byrnes, Clerk and Treasurer.

  Fire Department.
MT. HOLYOKE, NO.  .
Edward Ahearn, Foreman.
Louis Blair, Clerk and Treasurer.
EMERALD, NO.  .
Michael Donnelly, Foreman.
M. J. Cronin, Clerk and Treasurer.
DEXTER, NO.  .
George R. Hicks, Foreman.
E. Netherwood, Clerk and Treasurer. ,
HOOK AND LADDER COMPANIES.
RESCUE, NO.  |
A. M. Shepardson, Foreman.
A. S. Read, Clerk and Treasurer.
HOOK AND LADDER NO.  .
Fred A. Strong, Foreman.
J. R. Worthington, Clerk and Treasurer.
HOOK AND LADDER NO.  .
John P. Reed, Foreman.
Wallace Marshal, Clerk and Treasurer.
DRIVERS OF STEAMERS.
Steamer No.  Timothy Harrington
Steamer No.  Daniel Hogan

Fire Department.  
Steamer No.  Albert. C. Ellison
Steamer No.  John Moynihan
DRIVERS OF HOSE WAGONS.
Hose No.  William West
Hose No.  James Lynch
Hose No.  Fred C. Buckley
Hose No.  James Crowley
Mt. Tom, James McNally
Mt. Holyoke. James Brady
Emerald. John Long
DRIVER OF OK AND LADDER TRUCK.
Hook and Ladder No.  Daniel Moynihan
TILLERMAN.
Hook and Ladder No.  James Pendergast

School Committee.
Hon. JEREMIAH F. SuLLIVAN, Mayor, Chairman.
EpwIn L. KIRTLAND, Sec’y and Supt. of Schools
St Lar owas C. WINCHESTER, Term expires  
OEE TOMAS CONNOR, Term expires  
Ward  .—WILLIAM A. Moore, Term expires  
Ward  .—TERRENCE L. CURRAN, Term expires  
Ward  .—LovIs FRIEDRICH, Term expires  
Ward  .—WILLIAM KELLY,  R., Term expires  
Ward §.—LyMawn M. TUTTLE, Term expires  
Ward  .—GEoRGE H. SMITH, Term expires  
Ward  .—EmBury P. Cuark, Term expires  
STANDING COMMITTEES.

On ELeEcrions—Messrs. Curran, Friedrich, Winchester.

On RuLeEs—Messrs. Smith, Winchester, Moore.

On ACCOUNTS AND FINANCE—Messrs. Connor, Clark,
Kelly.

On SALARIES—Messrs. Winchester, Moore, Tuttle.

On Music aNnD CALISTHENICS— Messrs. Friedrich,
Connor, Moore.

School Committee.  

On TEXT-BooKs, PRINTING AND SUPPLIES—Messrs.
Clark, Smith, Curran.

On ScHooL Housrs—Messrs. Tuttle, Connor, Smith.

On EVENING ScHooLs—Messrs. Kelly, Curran, Clark.

On DRAWING AND WritTING—Messrs Moore, Winchester, Tuttle.

On ATTENDANCE, CENSUS AND TRUANCY—Messrs.
Curran, Kelly, Moore.

Ward Officers,
WARD ONE, PRECINCT A.
Warden, Richard Gilday.
Deputy Warden, P. J. Moore.
Clerk, Alfred Sefton.
Deputy Clerk, C. H. Goodrich.
Inspectors, Wm. Brockway, Wm. Perry.
Deputy Inspectors, J. J. Byrnes, John Bleasius.
Ballot Clerks, Arthur A. Tubbs, Patrick Gear.
Deputy Ballot Clerks, John Vachon, Wm. H. Bond.
WARD TWO, PRECINCT A.

Warden, Joseph Beauchemin.
Deputy Warden, C. L. Taylor.
Clerk, Peter Daze.
Deputy Clerk, T. L. Curran.
Inspectors, W. P. Buckley, C, M. Porter.
Deputy Inspectors, Walter McGinnis, L.  Whitcomb.
Ballot Clerks, J. A. Shanahan, E. R. Train.
Deputy Ballot Clerks, Wm. Miner, D. B. Kelton,

} WARD THREK, PRECINCT A.
Warden, Edward J. Gorman.
Deputy Warden, J. J. Curran.

Ward Officers.  
Clerk, John Lowcock.
Deputy Clerk, J. T. Hunter.
Inspectors, C. J. Cunningham, Henry Schenker.
Deputy Inspectors, Edward Walsh, W. F. Kreimendahl.
Ballot Clerks, Edward F. Foley, David Fontaine.
Deputy Ballot Clerks, Ignatius Schirch, J. Buffington.
WARD FOUR, PRECINCT A.
Warden, Patrick Smith.
Deputy Warden, Maurice Sullivan.
Clerk, H. B. Spencer.
Deputy Clerk, W. A. Babcock.
Inspectors, Patrick Brennan, T. W. Mann.
Deputy Inspectors, John J. Doody, H. Twaddle.
Ballot Clerks, George O’ Brien, I. F. Butler.
Deputy Ballot Clerks, James A. Gillon, F. L. Perkins.
WARD FOUR, PRECINCT B.
Warden, M. T. Kane.
Deputy Warden, Frank Fitzgerald. .
Clerk, F.  Davis.
Deputy Clerk, John P. Bleasius.
Inspectors, Dennis F. Cleary, D. A. Hendricks.
Deputy Inspectors, Michael Kerin, Thomas Mason.
Ballot Clerks, John F. Sheehan, J. T. Sheehan.
Deputy Ballot Clerk, J. P. Williston.
WARD FIVE, PRECINOT A.
Warden, V. J. O’ Donnell.
Deputy Warden, I. L. Purrington.

  Ward Officers.

Clerk, EB. L. Munsell.

Deputy Clerk, Chas. A. Hooker.

Inspectors, K. M. Bolton, Richard Burns.

Deputy Inspectors, G. H. Perry, C. J. Bresnahan.

Ballot Clerks, I. J. Humes,  McQuaid.

Deputy Ballot Clerks, F. A. Sturtevant, W. E. Redington
WARD FIVE, PRECINCT B.

Warden, E. P. Ford.

Deputy Warden, James Cowan.

Clerk, J. J. FitzGibbon.

 Deputy Clerk, Wm. O’Connell.

Inspectors, Arthur KE. Ford, John F. Long.

Deputy Inspectors, E. D. Shaw, C. F. Lucey.

Ballot Clerks, D. J. O’ Neill, Arthur Pomeroy.

Deputy Ballot Clerks, Wm. E. Welch, H. T. Hillman.
WARD SIX, PRECINCT A.

Warden, C. D. Colson.

Deputy Warden, F. N. White.

Clerk, L. R. O’ Neill.

Deputy Clerk, W. J. Ryan.

Inspectors, M. F. Walsh, H. H. Smith.

Deputy Inspectors, L. F. Hayward, Michael McCormick.

Ballot Clerks, James J. Regan, A. G. Magna.

Deputy Ballot Clerks, Michael Callahan, C. W. Dustin.
WARD SIX, PRECINCT B.

Warden, Henry J. Bogue.

Deputy Warden, James A. Murphy.

Ward Officers.  
Clerk, Charles Van Valkenburgh.
Deputy Clerk, H. P. Sears.
Inspectors, Ignatius Sullivan, F. A. Whiting.
Deputy Inspector, Frank Fay.

Ballot Clerks, Charles W. Milne, James Temple.
Deputy Ballot Clerks, James Bartley, E. M. Chapman.
WARD SEVEN, PRECINCT A.

Warden, F. D. Parsons.

Deputy Warden, G. W,. Doane. |

Clerk, Thomas J. O' Keefe.

Deputy Clerk, W. F. Bradley, Jr.

Inspectors, John O'Shea, Chas. F. Howes.

Deputy Inspectors, Wm.  Thorpe, L. D. Crafts.

Ballot Clerks,  H. Whitten, R. M. Wolohan.

Deputy Ballot Clerks, Peter McKeon, W. Eastman, Jr.
WARD SEVEN, PRECINCT B.

Warden, Oscar Ely.

Deputy Warden, G. P. Ellison.

Clerk, John P. Reid.

Deputy Clerk, W. L. Winchester.

Inspectors, William Hamilton. E. Netherwood.

Deputy Inspectors, Frank Moss, H. D. Willtams.

Ballot Clerks, John B. Donoghue, Louis L. Moore.

Deputy Ballot Clerks, John Moriarty, E. L. Shumway.

Treasurer’s Report.
To the Honorable, the Mayor and City Council:

GENTLEMEN: [I have the honor to present to you a
brief report of the transactions of this office for the fiscal
year ended December .

A statement of receipts and expenditures shows cash
receipts amounting to with balance of
$  not expended, and carried to account.

The report of the accountant who examined the books,
with the trial balance as found, is herewith submitted.

I am glad to be able to report that my recommendation that the real estate owned by the city be inventoried and placed upon the books, has been acted upon.
The assessors have valued the land and buildings owned
by the city and have placed on the ledger as real estate
$  representing this property. schedule of the
property is attached hereto.

Rates for borrowed money have ruled even higher
during than for the preceding year, and it has been
necessary to issue some notes at rates of interest higher
than for several years past.

Since the city became subject to the law which fixes a
rate of not more than  per thousand on the valuation,

Report of Treasurer.  
to be raised by taxation for annual appropriation each
year, notes of from one to five thousand dollars have
been issued freely for any object for which ready money
was not available for appropriation. Without reference
to the necessity for these small loans it is fact that the
frequent issuance of these small notes does not help the
city’s credit nor make it easy for the treasurer to negotiate them at low rates. The amount of these notes now
standing on the books as bills payable has increased
from  in to  at present, or 
in three years.

There were issued in  dated Sept. four
per cent bonds payable in  principal and interest in
gold. These bonds were issued to pay the city’s assessment on account of the Holyoke and South Hadley
bridge.

Included in uncollected sewer assessments are two
items, one for sewer in alley between Maple and High
streets amounting to and one for sewer in
Prospect street from the alley between Walnut and Pine
streets to the building owned by the Holyoke and South
Hadley Falls Ice Company thence to the Connecticut
river, amounting to .

These two assessments have long since been referred
by me to the city solicitor and city government for collection or abatement. Without these two items, the
uncollected sewer assessments amount to only .

Respectfully submitted,
D. L. FARR, City Treasurer.

  Report of Treasurer.
RECEIPTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING
DECEMBER .
Cash on hand, December,  
Received since, the following: ,
Bills Payable—Prods of Sale of Notes
applied to:
Notes Maturing,  
Sundry Appropriations,  
Temporary Loan,  
$ J. Keough, Collector of Taxes:
On Account of Tax, 
On Account of Tax,  
On Account of Tax,  
On Account of Sidewalk
Tax, 
, ———— 
Holyoke and South Hadley Bridge Bonds:
Prods of Sale, Including Premium,  
Interest }
Reed from Holyoke Water
Commissioners, 
Rec'd from Holyoke and
Westfield RR. Co.,  
Ree’d from Home National
' Bank,  
Accrued on Notes,  
————— 

Report of Treasurer. 
Sewer Assessments :
Received from Sundry Persons, 
Pauper Department :
Rec’d from Sundry Cities
and Towns, 
Rec’d from Sundry Persons,  
Rec’d from Thomas O’ Donnell, Almoner,  
Rec’d from State of Massa- |
chusetts,  
———-————  
Contingent:
Rec'd from Hampden County for Rent of Police Court
Room,  
Rec’d from J. J. Prew (Set- ,
tlement of Claim),  
Rec’d from C. T. Callahan,
City Solicitor,  
City Hall Rental,  
Rec’d from State of Massachusetts for Rental of Armory and Headquarters
Second Regiment,  
—————  
National Bank Tax :
State of Massachusetts:  
Corporation Tax:
State of Massachusetts,  

  Report of Treasurer.
State and Military Aid:
State of Massachusetts, 
“Unclaimed and charged back,  
Lt 
Police Department :
A. A. Tyler, Clerk, 
T. J. Tierney, Clerk,  
Hampden County, Officers’
Fees,  
Hampden County, Fines Remitted,  
City of Springfield,  
Patrick Herbert,  
——-—  
Fire Department :
G. W. Ingalls Co., 
P. Hortie,  
S. D. Atkins,  
Pay Roll, item charged back,  
—— ——  
Schools :
Hampden County, Dog Tax, 
National Blank Book Co.,  
C.H. Davenport, for Tuition,  
Bessie E. Pepper, forTuition,  
B. C. Brainerd, for Tuition,  
C. D. Griswold, for Tuition,  
—-———  
Sidewalks:
From Sundry Persons, for Curbing,  

Report of Treasurer.  
Whiting Street Fund ,
J. S. McElwain, Trustee, 
Brooks and O’Connor Avenue Assessment :
From Sundry Persons,  
Ward Three Engine House:
German-American Publishing Co.,  
Sewers and Drains: |
From Sundry Persons,  
Street Watering :
Pay Roll, item charged back,  
Almshouse :
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co.,  
City Property }
Washburn Moen Mfg. Co.,  
Fuel and Street Lights:
J. F. Greaney, Lamplighter, 
Highways and Bridges:
Holyoke Street Ry. Co., 
P. Hortie,  
Daniel O’Connell Son,  
| ——— ———  
License Fund :
First and Fourth Class
Liquor License Fees received
from the following persons:

  Report of Treasurer.

David C. Downing, Herman

Lubold, John Ayen, Thomas

Shea, James Greeley, Guyott Brothers, William Greeley, R. E. Dunn, Thomas

Lawler, Black Picard,

Daly Brothers, G. H. Bowker, William H. Norris, Jas.

P. Casey, H. C. Ferguson,

Alexander Terren, M. A.

Heffernan, J. F. Canavan,

J. E. J. W. Kelly, James

Shea, E. F. Nugent, William Stevens, Daniel O’ Neill,

Rock Teroux, James Geraghty, Dennis Geraghty, R.

A. Doran Co., Henry

Meyer, Cronin Donnelly,

M. R. Dalton, T. J. Flanagan, P.C. Sawyer, J. J. Regan—  at  each,  
Fourth Class Liquor License Fees, as follows: J. ,

K. McCarthy, Thomas M.

Cleary—  at  each,  
Sixth Class (Druggists’)

Liquor Licenses, as follows:

J. K. Morrill, Thos. L. Desaulniers, Herman Koegel,

F. P. Goodall, E. F. Mur- :

Report of Treasurer.  
phy Co., John Heinritz &
Sons, A. KE. Worthen, C. M. ,
Porter, L.O.L’ Esperance, C.
E. Ball, C. E. Ball Co., R.
E. Morgan, F. H. Proctor,
L. H. Fortier, Curran Bros.,
W. L. L’Esperance, M. J.
Griffin, B. J. Elkins Co.,
J. J. Nugent ), A.J N.
Desmarais, A. S. Menard,
R. C. Winkleman, A. R.
Vincent Co., Ely Drug
Co.—  at  each, 
Special Club Liquor License Fees received as follows: German Gymnastic
Club, German Gymnastic
Club Vorwaerts, Ward One
Jacksonian Club, Ward
Three Club, Ward Two
Social Club, Paper City
Club, The Holyoke Club—
  at  each,  
Total Liquor License Fees,  
Sundry License Fees, including Junk, Hack, Auctioneer, Opera House, Circus and other fees,  

TW Report of Treasurer.
Milk License Fees from
M. L. Griffin, Inspector, 
————— 
Total Receipts,  
, PAYMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING
DECEMBER .
Bills Payable:
Temporary Loan,  
Notes Matured,  
———— 
Municipal Sinking Fund Commission:
Appropriation Paid,  
Holyoke and South Hadley Bridge:
Assessment Levied, 
Interest Accrued,  
————— 
State Tax:
Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  
County Tax:
Treasurer of Hampden County,  
National Bank Tax:
Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  

Report of Treasurer.  
License Fund—One-fourth of all Liquor Licenses :
Paid to the Commonwealth |
of Massachusetts, 
Appropriated to Committee for Fourth of July Celebration,  
Eugene Shea, Steward,  
John Ford, Steward,  
———— 
Interest. :
Coupons Twenty-five Year
Bonds,  
Coupons, Ten Year Bonds,  
Coupons, Water Bonds,  
Coupons, H. W. R. R.
Bonds,  
Paid on Sundry Notes,  
————  
Whiting Street Fund:
Paid to Commissioners,  
Total Payments on the following Appropriations:
City Property,  
Pauper Department,  
Fire Department, Repairs Contingent,  
Fire Department, Salaries,  
Fire Department, Pay of ‘‘Call Men,”’  
Fire Department, Water, 
Fire Department, Hose,  

  Report of Treasurer.
Paving, 
Sidewalks,  
Highways and Bridges,  
Sewers and Drains,  
Schools,  
Police Department,  
Salaries,  
Fuel and Street Lights,  
Parks,  
Contingent,  
State Aid,  
Library,  ,
Engineering,  
Street Watering,  
Board of Health,  
Ward Three Engine House,  
Ward Seven Engine House,  
Nonotuck Street School Building,  
Extension of Mosher Street Sewer,  
Canal and Mosher Street Sewer,  
Front Street Sewer Repairs,  
, Total Payments, 
Cash on Hand at the Close of the Fiscal
Year,  
$  

Report of Treasurer.  
STATEMENT OF NOTES AND BONDS, REPRESENTING THE GROSS DEBT.
Notes Maturing in :
March  at per cent
March  §,  “* §
August  ‘* “f
October  ** §
November ‘§
November  §
November  ‘*  ee
November  ‘*  
November  ‘** *
November  ‘£ ‘“ |
December  ‘“* 
— 
Notes Maturing in  :
March  at per cent
March  *§
April  §,v  *“* ce
August  ‘* “
November  ** $*
November  ‘* “
November  ‘f “
November $§
——  
Notes Maturing in  :
March at per cent
March  *
April  ‘* “

  Report of Treasurer.
June at per cent
August  ‘* 
September  
November  ‘* “
November  é
November  ‘
November  ‘* 
Notes Maturing in  :
March at per cent
March  “§
July  ‘* “
November  ‘‘ 
November  ‘* ee
———  
Notes Maturing in  :
April at per cent
November ‘f ee
November  ‘S 
———  
Notes Maturing in  :
April at per cent
November  ‘* ce
———  
Notes Maturing in  :
April at per cent
———  

Report of Treasurer.  
Notes Maturing in  :

April at per cent

——  

Total Notes, 

Bonds Maturing:

 —July  Holyoke and Westfield

R. R. Bonds at per cent,  —September  Municipal Bonds

( -year), at percent,  —October  Municipal Bonds year), at per cent,  

 —July  Water Bondsat per cent, —October  Holyoke Westfield

R. R. Bonds at per cent, —September  Holyoke and South

Hadley Bridge Bonds at per cent,  

Total Bonds,  

Total Notes,  

Gross Debt, 

  Report of Treasurer.
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE VALUED BY THE
BOARD OF ASSESSORS IN  .

School Buildings and Land:

Dwight Street School, 

Lyman Street School,  

Park Street School,  

Hamilton Street School, 

Sargeant Street School,  

North Chestnut Street School,  

High School,  

Appleton Street School, 

South Chestnut Street School,  

Back Street School,  

Ingleside School,  

Ireland Parish School Lot,  

Mechanic Street School,  

Nonotuck Street School,  

Ewingville School,  

West Holyoke School,  

—— 

Engine Houses and Land :

Mount Tom House, 

Ward Three House,  

Emerald House,  

High Street House, V

Hampden Street House,  

South Street Lot,  

Dexter Hose House,  

———  

Report of Treasurer. 
Parks:
Ward Three Park,  
Hamilton Park,  
Prospect Park, 
Hampden Park,  
Ewing Park,  
—— 
Almshouse and Farm,  
City Yard,  
Pest House,  
Gravel Pit,  
City Hall and Site,  
Total Value of Real Estate, 
Total Value of Buildings,  
Total Value of Land,  
——— 

  Report of Treasurer.
TRIAL BALANCE FROM CITY TREASURER’S
BOOKS, DECEMBER .
Dr.
Holyoke Water Works,  
Holyoke Westfield R. R. stock,  
Cash,  
Municipal Sinking Fund Commission,  
Holyoke Water Commission,  
Holyoke and South Hadley Bridge,  
City Property, 
Pauper Department,  
Almshouse,  
Fire Department, Repairs and Contingent,  
“  Salaries,  
“ Pay of Members,  
“  “s Hose,  
Highwaysand Bridges,  
Schools,  
Police,  
Salaries,  
Fuel and Street Lights,  
Parks,  
State Aid,  
Board of Health,  
Sewers and Drains,  
Sidewalks,  
J. C. Keough, Collector, Sidewalk Tax 
“  ‘* 
“ ‘s ‘* 
“  ““ ‘* 

Report of Treasurer.  
Real Estate,  
Paving Loan, 
Dwight street Bridge Loan, 
Miscellaneous Loan, 
“ 
Mechanic street Abatement,  
Hamilton Park,  
Brooks and O’ Connor avenues,  
Sewer Assessment, Schedule L,  
“ sé M,  
‘s 
“ 
“ wo O&:  
““  
.  
“  ),  
“ “QQ.  
“ ““ 
“  ‘* 
$  
CR.

Holyoke Water Bonds,  
Holyoke Westfield R. R. Bonds,  
Municipal Bonds, years,  
.s years,  
Water Bonds, Sinking Fund,  
Holyoke and South Hadley Bridge Fund,  
Bills Payable,  

Appropriation for Sinking Fund, Municipal Bonds,  

  Report of Treasurer.
Municipal Sinking Fund Accumulation, 
Whiting Street Fund,  
Fire Alarm Repairs,  
Fire Department Hose Wagon,  
Paving,  
Contingent,  
‘ Interest,  
License Fund,  
City Engineering, ,
Street Watering,  
Corporation Tax,  
National Bank Tax,  
Overlayings,  
Ward One Engine House,  
West Springfield Road,  
Polling Booths,  
Hamilton street School Heating,  
Straightening Appleton street,  
Canal and Mosher street Sewer,  
City of Holyoke,  
Ward Three Engine House,  
Ward Seven Engine House,  
Front street Sewer Repairs,  
Extension of Mosher street Sewer,  
Claims,  
$  
HoLyokk, January .
I hereby certify that have audited the books of the
Treasurer of the City of Holyoke for the year ending
December and have toreport:

Report of Treasurer.  

That find the cash book footed correctly, and the
disbursements supported by approved vouchers.

Have examined the journal entries, and find them to
be authorized and legitimate.

Have verified the footings of the ledger proving the
trial balance of December which shows the balance of cash called for on that date to be 
There has been received since  

$ 
And has been paid  
Balance on hand January  
Made up as follows:
Bank Bills, 
Coin,  
Vouchers not entered,  
Home National Bank, per
pass book, 
Checks not in,  
——-——  |
——————-. 
CHAS. T. PLIMPTON,
Examining Auditor.

Schedule of Expenditures.
DECEMBER TO DECEMBER  ],  .
BOARD OF HEALTH.

Balance, December  
Appropriation, .
Transfer,  
———  
Expenditures (see Report of
Board), 
Balance to 
——-— 
| CITY PROPERTY.
Appropriation, 
Transfer, 
Receipts,  
———— 
Expenditures, 
Balance,  
——— 
Overdrafts to Dec 
Balance, Dec.  
Present Overdraft, 

Schedule of Expenditures.  
CONTINGENT.

Balance, Dec.  
Appropriation, §,  
Transfer, etc.,  
Received for Rent of Court Room,  
Received for Rent of City Hall,  
Received for Rent of Armory,  
Sundry Receipts,  

———— 

EXPENDITURES.

John Glavin, claim,  
| Relief of Indigent Veterans,  .U 
Philip Ryan, claim,  
Mary Connor, claim,  
Sadie Edwards, claim,  
Mary O’ Donnell, claim,  
David E. Day, claim,  
John G@. Brooks, claim,  
C. H. Heywood, claim,  
W.H. Snow, claim,  
Malvina Lamarandre, claim,  
Births, Marriages and Deaths, 
Memorial Day, expenses,  
Sundry Bills,  
C. T. Callahan, extracompensation,  
Transfers to Other Departments,  
Balance to 

——— 

  Schedule of Expenditures.
CITY ENGINEERING.
Balance, Dec.  
Appropriation,  
——— 
Expenditures, 
Balance to 
——— 
FIRE DEPARTMENT.
| REPAIRS AND CONTINGENT.
Appropriation, 
Receipts (see Report of Treas.),  
Transfers,  
——-—— 
Expenditures (see Chief Engineer’s Report), $LO,  
Balance to 
——-- 
Overdraft, Dec. 
Balance, Dec.  
Present Overdraft, 
PAY OF MEMBERS.
Appropriation, 
Transfers,  
————— 

Schedule of Expenditures.  
EXPENDITURES.
Services of Call Men, 
Transfers,  
Balance, 
——— 
Overdraft Dec. 
Balance Dec.  
Present Overdraft, 
SALARIES.
Appropriation, 
Transfers,  
——— 
Expenditures, 
Balance,  
——— 
Overdraft, Dec. 
Less Balance, Dec., 
Present Overdraft, 
WATER.
Appropriation, 
Transfer,  
———— —s 
Expenditure, 
—————  
HOSE.
Transfer, 
—— 
Expenditure,  

  Schedule of Hxpenditures.
, FUEL AND STREET ‘LIGHTS.
Appropriation, 
Transfer,  
Receipts,  
-———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Holyoke Water Power Co.,
street gaslights,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,
street electric lights,  
Lamplighter,  
W. B. Whiting Co.,  
Sundry Bills,  
Balance,  
———— 
Overdraft, Dec. 
Balance, Dec.  
Present Overdraft, 
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.
Appropriation, 
Transfers,  
Receipts, (see Treasurer's Report),  
Overdraft, Dec.  
———— 
Expenditures, (see Report of Supt.
of Streets),  
——-—— 

Schedule of Expenditures.  
Overdraft, Dec. 
Overdraft, Dec.  
Total present overdraft, 
INTEREST.
Balance, Dec.  
Appropriation,  
Transfer,  
From Water Commissioners,  
From Hol. W. R. R. Co.,  
Interest on daily balances, |
Sundry receipts,  
Overdraft,  
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Int. on yr. Municipal Bonds, 
Int. on yr. Muncipal Bonds,  
Int on H. W. R. R. Bonds,
  per cent.,  
Int. on H. W. R. R. Bonds,
  per cent.,  
Int. on Water Bonds,  
Transfer to Bills Payable,  ),  
Transfers to other accounts,  
, Interest on other debts,  
————- 
Overdraft Dec. 

  Schedule of Expenditures.
PARKS.
Appropriation, 
———— 
Expenditures, 
Transfer  
Balance,  
———— 
Balance Dec. 
Overdraft to Dec. 
Present Balance, 
PUBLIC LIBRARY.
Appropriation, 
Transfer,  
——-— 
Expenditure, 
———— 
PAUPER DEPARTMENT,
Appropriation,  
Transfers,  
Receipts, (see Treasurer’s Report),  
$ 
Expenditures (see Report of
Overseers of Poor), 
Balance,  
————— 

Schedule of Eapenditures.  
Overdraft to Dec.  
Less Bal. Dec.  
Present Overdraft, 
POLICE.
Appropriation, 
Transfer, 
Receipts (see Treasurer’s Report),  
$  
Expenditures(see Chief's Report), 
Balance,  
————-- 
Overdraft to Dec.  
Less Bal. Dec. |
Present Overdraft, 
SALARIES.
Appropriation,  
Transfers,  
——-—-- 
EXPEN DITURES.
J. F. Sullivan, Mayor.  
M. J. Griffin, Mayor,  
M. J. Griffin, City Clerk, and
Auditor.  
T. D. O’Brien, City Clerk and
Auditor,  

 Schedule of Expenditures.
Citv Treasurer, .
Superintendent of Streets,  
Superintendent of Streets for |
Clerk hire,  
City Engineer,  
City Messenger,  
T. B. O’ Donnell, City Solicitor,  
C. T. Callahan, City Solicitor,  
City Almoner,  
Clerks of Committees,  
Superintendent of Public Buildings
and Grounds,  
Collector of Taxes,  
Overseers of the Poor,  
Care of City Hall Clock,  
Sealer of Weights and Measures,  
Clerk of the Common Council,  
City Physician,  
Precinct Officers,  
Inspector of Milk, etc.,  
Registrars of Voters, 
Assessors,  
Clerk of Assessors,  
Fish Warden,  
Board of Health,  
" Balance,  
————— 
Overd’ ft to Dec. 
, Less Bal. Dec. |
Present Overdraft, $B,  

Schedule of Expenditures. )]
SCHOOLS.
Appropriation, 
Transfers, ete.,  OV
Dog Tax, (see Treasurer's Report),  
/ ——-—--——-  
Expenditures, (see Report of
Superintendent),  
Balance,  
-—-———  
Overd’ ft to Dec. 
Less Bal. Dec. |
$ 
} SEWERS AND DRAINS.
Appropriation, 
Sewer Assessments Received, 
Sundry Receipts, (see Treasurer’s ,
Report),  
———-— 
Expenditures,  
Transfers to other Accounts,  
Balance, 
——— 
Overd' ft to Dec.  |
Less Bal. Dec. |
$ 

ee Schedule of Barpenditures.
SLDEW ALKS.
Appropriation, 
Transfers, etc., 
Receipts, (see Treasurer's Report),  
Overdraft,  
——-—— 
Expenditures, (see Report of
Superintendent of Schools), 
———— 
Overd’ ft to Dee 
Overdraft Dee.  
Present Overdraft, 
SINKING FUND FOR MUNICIPAL BONDS.
Appropriation, 
——-—— 
Paid to Commissioners,  
——---—  
BILLS PAYABLE.
Appropriation,  
Transfers, .
Loan,  
$ VOO VO
Expenditures OOO.  
—-——— 

Schedule of Expenditures.  
STATE ANIL) MILITARY AID.
Balance Dee. 
Receipts from State, (see Treas- \
urer’s repo!t,  
Overdraft, Dec.  
--—-—— 
EXPENDITURES.
State aid, 
Military aid,  
——— -— 
WHITING STREET FUND.
Balance Dee.  
Receipts,  
, 
Expenditures, 
Balance Dec.  
—  
WARD THREE ENGINE HOUSE AND SITE.
Loan  
Receipts, (see Treasurer’s report),  V. 
——— 

  Schedile of Brpenditures.
EXPENDITURES
Holyoke Water Power Co., land, 
F. J. Curley on acct. of contract,  
Holyoke Steam and Gas Pipe Co.
on acct. of contract,  
Thomas Connor on acct. of contract,  
Sundry bills,  
Balance Dec.  
———— 
WARD SEVEN (ELMWOOD) ENGINE HOUSE.
Loans, 
Transfer,  
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Lynch Bros. contract, 
Kennedy Sullivan, on acct.
of contract,  
C. P. Lyman, contract, 
Sundry Bills,  
Balance Dec.  
—-—— 
STREET WATERING.
Transfers, 
———  

Report of Treasurer.  
Expenditures, (see Superintendent
of Streets Report), 
Transfers,  
, —--—— 
PAVING.
Loans, 
Transfer,  
—-——  
Expenditures, (see Report of
Superintendent of Streets), 
Balance, Dec.  
——— 
FRONT STREET SEWER REPAIRS.
Loan, 
——-—- 
Expenditures, (see Superintendent
of Streets Report), 
Balance Dec.  
———--- 
CANAL AND MOSHER STREET SEWER.
Loans  
Transfer  
———  
Expenditures, (see Report of Supt.
of Streets), 
Balance Dec.  
————— 

  Schedule of Hapenditures.
EXTENSION OF MOSHER STREET SEWER.
Loans, 
Transfers,  
: ————  
Expenditures, (see report of Supt.
of Streets), 
Balance Dee.  
——-—— 
NONOTUCK STREET SCHOOL ENLARGEMENT.
Transfers, 
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
LL. T. Beaulieu, on contract,  
Sundry Bills,  
———— ——  
HOLYOKE AND SOUTH HADLEY BRIDGE,
Bonds,  year),  
Transfers,  
——— 
Expenditure, (City’s portion of
cost) 
———— 

Ci ditor’s Stat t
ity Auditor’s Statement.
DECEMBER TO DECEMBER  ],  .
é Z
o .
ee]  
ma. so} a
Say e
a  
Eu be ®
 he .
ee §
a 
a  )
  e} ea fa a)
Board of Health,  
City Property,  )
Contingent,   
City Engineering,   
Fire Department—Pay of Members,  
“s Repairs and Contingent,  /| ,
“ Salaries, 
“e “e Water, 
“e Hose,  
Fuel and Street Lights, ).
Highways and Bridges, Ol]  
Interest,   
Parks,  
Pauper Department,  
Police,  
Public Library,  
Salaries,   
Schools,   
Sewers and Drains,   le
Sidewalkrz,    
Sinking Fund, Municipal Bonds, 
Bills Payable,   
Paving,  
Ward Three Engine House and Site,   
Ward Seven (Elmwood) Engine House, OO} 
Street Watering,   
Front Street Sewer Repairs,  gf  
Canal and Mosher Strect Sewer,  
Mosher Street Sewer Extension, 
Nonotuck Street School Bldg. Enlargement,  
Holyoke and South Hadley Bridge, 
Totals,  , 
The above statement does not Include Sewer Assessments, amounting to ,
collected in  nor Overdrafts to December as follows, viz.:
City Property, :  
Fire Department—Repairs and Contingent,  
“ vay of Members,  
“ Salaries,  
Fuel and Street Lights,  
Highways and Bridges,   
Parks, .  
Pauper Department,  
Police, -  
Salaries, -  
Schools, -  
Sewers and Drains,  
Sidewalks, :  
Total, , 

Digitized by Google

ANNUAL REPORT  |
OF THE
OF THE
FOR THE
 
SCHOOL YEAR  -’ .
Vm N
x Ls tie  
dy fin aa ae
 e) LYORETAY
\ snes ae
iz NE a
HOLYORE, MASS,
TRANSCERIPT PUBLISHING COMPANY, PRINTERS,
 y?.

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
ScHOOL CoMMITTEE Rooms.
December .
Ata meeting of the School Committee, held this day,
was received the report of the Special Committee on
Annual Report, together with the reports of the committees on Evening Schools, Drawing and Writing and Music, and those of the Superintendent of Schools and
Truant Officers, all of which were adopted as the report
of the School Committee. The Committee on Text Books
- Printing and Supplies was instructed to publish, or cause
to be published, six hundred copies of the Annual
Report in addition to those incorporated with the Municipal Register.
Attest EDWIN L. KIRTLAND,
, Secretary.

ORGANIZATION
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Hon. JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN, Mayor,
CHAIRMAN.
THOMAS CONNOR,
VICE-CHAIRMAN.
EDWIN L. KIRTLAND,
SECRETARY AND SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS.
a Term expires
REUBEN C. WINCHESTER,  
At Large
THOMAS CONNOR,  
WarpD  —WILLIAM A. MOORE,  
Warp  —TERRENCE L. CURRAN,  
Warp  —LOUIS FRIEDRICH,  
Warp  —WILLIAM KELLY,  
Warp  —LYMAN M. TUTTLE,  
WarkD  —GEORGE H. SMITH,  
WarRD  —EMBURY P. CLARK. 

DISTRICT COMMITTEES.
High School Committee.
MESSRS. CLARK, KELLY, SMITH.
ScHoot.—Elm Street. Number of pupils, term
ending December, .
First District Committee.
MESSRS. WINCHESTER, CONNOR, MOORE.
ScHooLs.—Lyman Street,  Dwight Street,  |
Chestnut Street,  Ewingville,  Nonotuck
Street,  West Holyoke,  Number of pupils,
term ending December, .
Second District Committee.
MESSRS. SMITH, CLARK, FRIEDRICH.
ScHooLs.—Appleton Street,  South Chestnut |
Street,  Hlmwood,  West Street,  Number
of pupils, term ending December, .
Third District Committee.
MESSRS. KELLY, CURRAN, TUTTLE.
ScHoo.ts.—Hamilton Street,  Park Street,  ;
Sargeant Street,  Ingleside,  Number of pupils,
term ending December, .
Superintendent’s Office, Room  City Hall. |
Orrick Hours.—  a. m. to m., school days,
and from to p.m., Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
Also Saturday from a. m. to m., during the term
time. Office open for business each day from a. m. to
 ., and from to p. m.

On Exvecrions.—Messrs. Curran, Friedrich, Winchester.

On Rutes.—Messrs. Smith, Winchester, Moore.

On AccouNTS AND FINANCK.—Messrs. Connor,
Clark, Kelly.  

On SALARIES.—Messrs. Winchester, Moore, Tuttle.

On Music AND CALISTHENIUS.—Messrs. Friedrich,
Connor, Moore.

On Text Books, PRINTING AND SUPPLIES.——Messrs.
Clark, Smith, Curran.

ON ScHoot Housks.—Messrs. Tuttle, Connor, Smith. X

On EVENING SCHOOLS.——Messrs. Kelly, Curran, Clark.

On DRAWING AND WriITrINnG.—-Messrs. Moore, Winchester, Tuttle.

On ATTENDANCK, CENSUS AND TRUANCY.—Messrs.
Curran, Kelly, Moore.

a

Report of Special Committee
ON ANNUAL REPORT.

The reports of the Reporting Committees and the
Truant Officers, together with that of the Superintendent
of Schools, and the matter prepared under his direction,
are so full and exhaustive as to require nothing, and to
justify little from this Committee.

The Committee has expended during the fiscal year,
ending November   an increase of 
above the expenditures of the preceding year, the same
being due chiefly to the increase in day teachers’
salaries, and that of the evening draughting
school teacher, ($ .), the term for the previous school
year and that of the current school year falling wholly
within the last fiscal year. The increased expenditure
for day teachers’ salaries was due partly to achange of
basis of salaries—placing the lower six grades all upon
the same footing—and partly to increase of several
salaries under the old rule which provided certain
increase upon completion of certain periods of service.
The present basis was carefully considered, received the
unanimous assent of the Board, and will not, probably;
soon be changed.

The records of the Board show the following items of
business during the year: Theestablishment of stormy,
  Report of School Committee.
day signal, through the electric fire alarm—the signal
being two strokes, with repeat aftera minute anda
half, given at o’clock a. m., for omission of the
morning session, and at o’clock p. m., for omission
of the afternoon session.
The re-arrangement of the census districts for equalization and convenience of work. The provision of cases
for marine specimens, for the High and Hamilton street |
schools.
The establishment of the Park street Training School
for teachers.
The establishment of fire escape drills and the provision
of fire signal bells in some of the houses.
A vote of approval of the movement, set on foot by the
Mayor and Aldermen, towards the early procurement of
i site for new High school. Requested the City
Property Committee to prepare room for the classes in
drawing in the third story of the High School building.
The most important step taken by the Board during the
year, was that of establishing the Training School for
teachers No greater topic engages the attention of the
Committee than that of the preparation of its teachers,
because the teacher makes the school. It having been |
our privilege individually to co-operate with you in these
enterprises, looking towards the education and self-improvement of teachers, We most cordially commend the
school to the thoughtful interest of our successors.
Although begun under favorable auspices, so far as the
attitude of the Board and the engagement of competent
teacher are concerned, there are some conditions necessary to the success of such an enterprise which require

Report of School Committee.  
the factor of time for their complete resolution. The
building has not yet been putin the fair sanitary condition, long promised, for which the opening of the
school was some time delayed. The model schools are
not yet fully developed. Theschools are, and may for
some time continue, subject to great fluctuations of
population. Thesecontinual changes of condition of the
model schools, are and may continue serious Obstacles to
the realization of good model work for the training .
classes, and such continuance may require radical remedy,
even transfer to more favorable conditions. Inshort, the
scheme of development of the institution being incomplete
as to classes. courses and management and uses of the
model schools, it is obvious that our successors will have
abundant opportunities to make or mar it in finally working out the details. But whatever conditions may froin
time to time confront those appointed to carry out these
measures, we bespeak for them liberal spirit in providing for its wants, and most jealous watchfulness in
maintaining the high standards prescribed for it by the
founders. The Secretary has presented, in his accom.
panying report, many matters which will challenge the
attention of the Board, during the coming year, among
which are the need of new and more commodious High
school, and new schoolhouses on the North Flat and in
Elmwood. These matters would seem to demand the
early earnest attention of the authorities; at least the
expressions of discontent with the present accommodations merit respectful consideration.

It is of interest to notice that initiatory steps were
taken in for the proper heating and ventilating of

  Report of School Committee.

the Chestnut and Park street buildings and that the
latter building remains untouched. The condition of the
Appleton, the Hamilton and the Park street houses
should receive immediate attention, and, if possible,
something should be done for their ventilation this year.

The improved means of providing pure air for schoolrooms is no longer new, many cities and towns of the
Commonwealth having almost completely displaced the
old methods, within two or three years, by substitution
of apparatus similar in fundamental principle to that
used in our Chestnut street building. We believe the
early undertaking of this important work awaits only
the appreciation of its merits and necessity which must
be apparent upon investigation.

The school registration for the year was  or  
jess than that of the year previous; the average attendance,  was better than the average of the previous
year; the per cent. of attendance, based upon the aver
age membership, was  the same as during the preceding year.

The record of tardiness is better than that of the
previous year, but the half-day absences from disease,
quarantine and other causes,  rise above those of
the previous year,  the causes for the difference
being found, upon comparing the tables of ‘Causes of
Absence’’ for the two years, to be chiefly in the items of
measles, mumps and sore throat, from which the former
year’s record is nearly free, except as to sore throat.
These infectious diseases affected the attendance at nearly all of the schools except the four-room Lyman street
and the three suburban schools.

Report of School Committee.  

Before closing this report, we desire to commend to
the attention of the Board the voluntary efforts of the
teachers to gather in their buildings valuable libraries
and museums as aids to both teachers and pupils in pursuing their several branches of study. These large
acquisitions are gathered wholly from private sources but
are, nevertheless, the property of the city, to remain in
the houses where they have been collected, fitting monuments to the zeal of the earnest souls who have planned
and prospered such good works. The presence of so
much and so valuable books and material, and so obtained, must constitute strong appeal to the consciences
of allthe teachers who go in and out before it, to their
accustomed tasks, day by day.

Possessed of the true spirit belonging to their high
calling, enterprising to possess themselves of every aid
or inspiration which would help to qualify them for it,
surely none will neglect their use or fail to transfer their —
priceless benefits to their waiting pupils.

Respectfully submitted,
R C. WINCHESTER,
L. M. TUTTLE.

Report of Committee on Evening Schools.

Authority having been obtained September  your
Committee on Evening Schools opened the schools
October  and closed them December  after session 
of forty evenings, four evenings each week. The number of admission tickets issued at the Superintendent’s
office and the number of these presented to the schools
did not differ largely from the number given or presented last year, the enrollment and average attendance
(  and  being, the former more, and the latter
  less than the corresponding numbers last year.

Upon inspection of the table given in the Superintendent’s report some interesting facts may be discovered.
Last year the total enrollment in the English department
of Chestnut street building was  and the average
attendance  this year, enrollment  average attendance only  at last year’s ratio it should have been
 Enrollment in the English department at Hamilton
was last year  average attendance  this year,
enrollment  and average attendance  should have
been  At the Dwight, Jast year’s enrollment was  ,
average attendance  this year’s enrollment was  ,

and average attendance  should have been  At
Chestnut street school for French pupils, last year’s

Report of School Committee.  
enrollment was  and average attendance  this
year’s numbers are and  the latter should have
been but  At the Park street French school last
year the enrollment was and average attendance  ,
this year the numbers were and  precisely the
same ratio as last year. At the Hamilton street German
school, lest year’s enrollment was  average attendance
 this year the numbers are and  precisely the
same ratio.

The above figures show that last year’s standard of
attendance was maintained in only one of the schools for
English speaking pupils, viz., the Dwight, but in the
German school and the Park street French school the
ratios of the two years are alike, while the Chestnut
street French school shows decided gain. Carrying the
comparison into the aggregates, it is found that last
year’s enrollment,  yielded an average attendance of
 while this year’s enrollment,  was represented
by an average attendance of  or less than should
have been expected. The fact seems clear enough that
the schools attended most largely by ‘‘illiterates,’’ so
called, had the best average attendance, and that all of

. the others except the Dwight street school, showed a
remarkable falling off from last year’s standard. But
this is due chiefly, although not wholly, to compulsion
on the one hand, and evening mill employment and lack
of real interest, on the other. This Committee has used
every means ever approved by local Committee to
assure full enrollment and to hold those enrolled to the
end of the term, at the same time exercising economy.
The teachers chosen were chiefly those who had had ex  Report of School Committee.

perience in the evening schools, and the additions to the
corps were mostly High school and Normal graduates.
The number at first appointed was  ten less than last
year’s corps, but the large enrollment rendered further
appointments necessary, and the number was ultimately
made up to  where it remained to the end of the term.
The actual expense of these schools for the |: ::'t term
falls  below that of last year’sterm. It is believed
by your Committee that the expense can be still further
reduced, by making the continuance of service of
teachers depend upon the attendance of pupils, and by
prescribing such conditions of membership of these
schools as will deter the evil disposed, who only intend a
temporary connection with the school, from asking
admission. Various methods of management have been
proposed, which our successors will probably investigate
and adopt, if promising good results.

Your Committee knowing the unfortunate condition
of large number of youth in our city, who have missed
not only the best but all privileges of education in childhood, have thought fit to exercise its functions with some
charity and benevolence even towards those who do not
fully appreciate the opportunities offered to them, but
there is doubtless limit beyond which charity may not
justly go, and for the discovery of this limit, we respectfully commend this unfortunate class and our own
experience therewith, to our successors in evening school
work.

TERENCE L. CURRAN,
EMBURY P. CLARK,

Report of Committee on Drawing
and Writing.
Gentlemen: :

Your committee is pleased to report that the past year
has seen no backward steps taken in either the writing
or drawing departments of our public schools. The efforts
of the teachers in both these branches have been, as ever,
Conscientious and earnest Moreover, the co-operation
of the teachers in the different grades has been all that
could be desired. Asa result, the progress of the pupils
has been most satisfactory. Beyond this there is little
to say—no new methods have been adopted, no experi.
ments tried. word, however, as to the evening drawing class may not be amiss. It has now completed its
second year’s trial and we are pleased to report that we
consider it no longer an experiment but success. It
goes without saying that knowledge of the principal
rules of geometry must be of great assistance to the pupil in mechanical drawing. We therefore suggest that
those intending to take this evening course would endeavor beforehand to acquaint themselves, at least, with the
rudimentary principles and rules of this branch. However, even those who have never studied geometry may
derive benefit from this class and we would like to see
every young wage-worker in mill and shop in the city
attending it.

WM. J. DOWER,
: R. C. WINCHESTER.

Report of Committee on Writing and
Calisthenics.

To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke:
Your Committee on Musicand Calisthenics respectfully
report as follows: Music: The method of instruction
in this department the past year, is the same as followed
the foregoing three years, and as it has eminently shown
satisfactory results, we have no changes to suggest. It
may not be out of place to mention here the fact, that the
methods of our instructor have attracted the attention of
 educational authorities at large, to such an extent that
he has felt warranted to offer the system, in chart form,
for publication; itis now in the hands of the printer.
Your Committee wish him the reward it merits. Calisthenics: In the judgment of your Committee the
instructor has attended to his duties in an efficent manner,
and as arule his work shows good results. The plan of
instruction pursued is from the so-called German System of Calisthenics, and is essentially the same as practiced by the leading instructors in public schooleg of this
country where calisthenics are adopted. As the beneficial effects of calisthenics can be obtained only by their
proper execution in the classes, we hope that all teachers
will interest themselves enough in this work to gain the

Report of School Committee.  
best results. In our opinion the work would be more
effective in the Appleton street building, if arrangements
could be made to use the hall for these exercises, particularly for the higher classes, as the space between
desks is too limited to allow the proper execution of all
the movements. The new hall inthe Nonotuck street
building is well adapted for these exercises. We would
recommend the purchase of movable stage or platform
for this ha)l, that would enable the professor to be seen
by all of the class during instruction this would be no
unnecessary expense as platform is needed if the hall
is used for other exercises. We recommend the purchase
at reasonable price, of piano, for the use of the
training teacher in the departments of music and calisthenics at the Training school.

Respectfully submitted,
L. G. HEINRITZ,
WM. KELLY.

Report of Truant Officers.
To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke:

Gentlemen: In presenting this report to your honorable board we ask you to consider the statistics accompanying this report showing the amount of labor performed. Since our last report it has been deemed advisable to
reform the census districts, as some of them had greatly
increased since they were changed some fifteen years
ago.

The districts and their boundaries that were established
last January and approved by you, are as follows, viz.:

First District.—Bounded west by the Holyoke and
Westfield railroad, south by Appleton street, and easterly by the Connecticut river. Number of children,  .

Seconpd Districr.--Bounded northerly by Appleton
street, westerly by the Holyoke and Westfield railroad,
southerly by Hamilton street, easterly by the Connecticut
river. Number of children,  .

THIRD Districr.—Bounded westerly by the Holyoke
and Westfield railroad, northerly by Hamilton street,
easterly by the Connecticut river, southerly by residence
of John J. Prew. Number of children, .

FourtH Districr.—Bounded northerly by the ConReport of School Committee.  
necticut river, southerly by Dwight street, easterly by
the Holyoke and Westfield railroad, westerly by Bh
street. Number of children,  .

Firtn Districr.—Bounded northerly by Dwight
street, easterly by the Holyoke and Westfield railroad,
southerly by ‘‘Dry Brook,’’ westerly by line down
Bh street to Cabot street, up Cabot street to Sycamore
street, down Sycamore street to Chapman avenue, up
Chapman avenue to Northampton street, down Northampton street to ‘‘Dry Brook.’? Number of children,
 .

SixtH District.—Bounded northerly by ‘* Dry
Brook”’ and Cherry street, easterly by the Holyoke and
Westtield railroad, westerly by line from Delaney’s ledge
to residence of A. M. Shumway, and thence to that of
John R. Richardson, southerly by line from John R.
Richardson's to Holyoke and Westfield railroad. Number of children,  .

SEVENTH District.—West of Bh street; north of
Cabot, Sycamore, Chapman avenue and Cherry street;
eastof line from Delaney’s ledge to Mrs. Foster Wilson's residence and thence to Northampton line. Number of children,  .

EreHtTA District.—South of county road to KEasthampton, west of line from John R. Richardson's to
Delaney’s ledge and Mrs. Foster Wilson’s. Number of
children,  .

NintH Districtr.—John R. Richardson’s to West
Springfield on the south, and Hilas O, Wolcott's on the
west. Number of children  .

  Report of School Committee.
!
TentH District.—West Holyoke. Number of chil- |
dren,  |
The annual school census was taken during the months
of May and June, without interruption, the Junior Officer having districts  and  and the Senior Offi- |
cer districts and  The number of children
between the ages of five and fifteen years enumerated,
were  an increase of over that of the previous
year. We have followed the usual custom of getfing the
population of the city, and find that our population is
 against for the year  .
The following table shows the census by districts,
May and May and May and the |
relative gain or loss, in each district, for each of the |
above years :
comers, tof jw fot] fo ao bra
e | Os
a
sgl, Oe Oe PS sd  
Is), (W Lose] Lso  wl WO  
INTK,  BIO oO co (a  
Gain over TsiQ, oh *s SH) iat, eS Tyo as SS 
Gain over  s, SS  s]  lol  
Avie gain each, |
— year since Is s,! edeeeeGe  
Star (*) indicating loss.
R  Gain. Lors,
No, attending the Public Schools May t,  and May  
“ St. Jeromes  ‘s was  
“ Precious Blood ‘s Mio sw  
“ Sacred Heart .*  
‘s “s Mt. St. Vineent “s Ion)  )
‘ “s Kindergarten .“. ‘s “* ay Bo  
‘ Other Private .* .* S
*  ocmploved inimills, shops and stores, ZN aS
‘ onotat work por at school, jo} TS  
‘e ominding house,   Gil
thatare deaf and dumb,  
se   tah, |
veeotherwise affected, S
— Total,Oe Os cL

| Report of School Committee.  
The following table shows the number of children and
the age of each child in each district neither at work nor
at school, between the ages of five and fifteen years, the
total being  of this number  per cent. are under
the age required by the statutes to attend school; about
  percent are over the compulsory age and are not obliged to attend percent. are unable to attend on account
of their physical condition and want of proper and sufficient clothing; so that only about per cent. of the
children of the compulsory age are not attending any
school, or in other words, about children out of  
are not attending any school during the time school is in
session :
Ss fc de gx  |ia de  
No.l, a,Oe Sr
No.   
No.  ih
No.  rv rn  
No.  ts
Nv. 
NO.   
No. &,  
No.   
No.   
Total,  &§' Nn. HW Ww  ot

  Report of School Committee.
TABLE OF NATIONALITIES.
PARENTAGE, Iso) TSO) Gaain. Loss.
ee ae 
Irish, .  
Freneh Canadisn, Zaps may) |
American, STO sib  
German, . Le  
Enelish,  . BIS BIG  
Scotch, -  dl 
Msnish,  .  ly  
Canadian, l
Italian. ay Pad  
“Belgian, .  
Swedish, .  )
Prussian, i) ”
Nova Scotian,  
Welsh. . |
Gerinan Jew, . .
Spanish, . ;
Polish, .  
Alsatian,   S
Australian,  
Greek,  
[ielian, . ]
French (from Franee), i) Bs)
New Brunswick,  
Bohemian, |
Russian, . |
— Potal, rk  D
Cain over Lsoo, .
This table shows the number in each district at work
in the mills, shopsand stores also the number minding
house, May and May :
DISTRICTS,  Total
Tl a
In mills, shops and stores. ee, La Lt   )
Minding house,  |  
Total for Tsot, os  las IX aD |
Total for   JTS Wo lO 

Report of School Committee.  
TABLE OF AGGREGATES.
 
Z  BE,  
€f EE  ‘GSE  
| £Z #eo  BEES ta, Et
  aed A, Qs MES  Ws
September,  k. ALS  d
October,   tb  
November, Ls, ONE {r  |
December,  ), tHe ]
January,  isT |
February,  ASD  
March,  OW !
April,  WT ll 
May,  |
June, ol, .
Total,  BYR} S| s
Total, Ik  ys rn  
The following tables show the number of absentees
reported, parents or guardians notified, absent without
permission, returned to school from the streets, and the
number of arrests, prosecutions and committals from
each building, for each month of the school year ending
June ,
ABSENTEES REPORTED.
ee —-— LL
SCHOOLS, foo a: oO
 ££ £F ££ £E FE e
D S.  sm -A &
Chestnut St., Pes ne (he on  wie
St. Jerome, so)  NN  (Hj SS re) ty OL)
Lyman St.,  
Dwight St. Te Ss ns Se  
Appleton St.. av  Is Po  Iss
Sv. Chestnut St. a) og rr  
Sargeant St.,  
Hamilton St.,  SS bo ob RR Ww  
Park St., Fl os Bs TO  
Precious Blood,  Is 
Sacred Heart,  |! WW  
Total GENT et os  

  Report of School Committee.
PARENTS AND GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
Fos  €'  Zi?
— HE {Fz Ee EE x
SCHOOLS. ao  cy  Se Ps 
): a) 
z Bi) Al EF
———-—  -—- —-— CN
Chestnut St.,   
St. Jerome, ys xO x] or  )
Lyman St., Hl 
Dwight St., ya) et (CS 
A ppleton St., Ix It  
so. Chestnut St.,  
Sargeant St.,  
Hamilton St., rr)   
Park St., W) ‘as 
Precious Blood, 
Sacred Heart, | Fad |
me aeee ea
Total; als ond oO” ow  
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION
  $€$ $'F €, EF FE FR F
eo
SCHOOLS. ad   ioe +» |g FF EF EB  
ee   er OE TT Ow Os Oe   SS OF EE
Chestnut St., Vr  
St. Jerome, pa  
Lyman St.,  
Dwight St., Ww,  te 
A ppleton St.,  
So. Chestnut St. Od gg:  
Sargeant St.. eo en)
Hamilton St., Ww   
Park St., 
Precious Blood,  
Sacred Heart,  
a, np
Total,  ). s: 
RETURNED TO SCHOOL.
TTL OO -— nena   oe
iJ  i) aml m
 Ag  os
SCHOOLS, iz volo nq  's a. ws 
g  wzlaAa Ss we lele
a|| ——
Chestnut St., a)  
St. Jerome, i)   
Dwight St.,  
Hamilton St.,  
Park St.,  
Sargeant St.,  
me
Total, stoi]  

Report of School Committee.  
ARRESTS.
——-——- —-—-————- --— so.  it. TS -— ar ———ee
SCHOOLS. aod Pj  z
  Ff 
i  vik #;) @
Chestnut st...  
St. Jerome,  
Dwight St., !
Appleton St.  
Park St., !
Precious Blood, |
Toa, |, ld los  |
PROSECUTIONS. ,
  gig ele  le  |
  FF £' ER EZ EF  &
KUHOOLS, foi go gl €&  &
xy  FY F&F BZ  E
  Ce CK Po —
Cheatnut St., »
St. Jerome,  
Dwight St., |
Appleton St., so]  
Park St., !
Precious Blood, l
-— ae CO Cr  ---ear Ce
Total,  tb tt Bs  On
COMMITTALS.
Po  slhlUcSlUmSlUwtl Uc tl GS GE Cll
| zZ FF £& EF EF |
  on  .
SCHOOLS. Vos Se 
— s
  E  
TF jo)  ee
Chestnut St.,  
St. Jerome,  
Dwight St.,  
A Phicton St,,  
Park St.,  
Precious Blood,  
Total,x

  Report of School Committee.
TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
From Park Street School :
  have been truant time |
  times |
  of re Truants. Truancies,  
From Hamilton Street School:
  have been truant time !
  “s times |
] cé  
] ce  qT
] $
  Truants. Truancies,  
From South Chestnut Street School:
  have been truant time Truants. Truancies,  
From Appleton Street School :
  have been truant time .. times  
] Ce es  
] qT Cé  
] Ce Truants. Truancies,  

Report of School Committee. ,
From Sargeant Street School:
  have been truant time  times Truants. Truancies,  
From Precious Blood School:
  have been truant time times  
J Truants. Truancies,  
From Sacred Heart School:
  have been truant time qT
 times  
l  Cb Truants. Truancies,  .
From Chestnut Street School:
  have been truant time  times cé Ge  
‘  GéhH
  oe Cé ceOe  
] be es be  
, Ge oe Gé  
|  Truants. Truancies,  

  Report of School Committee.
From St. Jerome School :
  have been truant time ce  times  
q  zs Truants. Truancies,  
From Dwight Street School:
  have been truant time times oe Cé  qT
: Truants. Truancies,  
From Lyman Street School :
  have been truant time times Truants. Truancies, Truants. Truancies,  

Report of School Committee.  
TABLE OF CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.

Appleton Street School—  case of diphtheria affecting  
pupils half days.

Hamilton Street School—  cases of diphtheria affecting
  pupils half days.

South Chestnut Street School—  cases of diphtheria
affecting pupils half days.

Sargeant Street School—  case of diphtheria affecting  
pupils half days.

Nonotuck Street School—  cases of diphtheria affecting
  pupils half days.

Dwight Street School—  cases of diphtheria affecting  
pupils half days.

Chestnut Street School—  case of diphtheria affecting  
pupils half days.

Lyman Street School—  cases of diphtheria affecting  
pupils half days.

Home School—  case of diphtheria affecting pupil  
half days.

Appleton Street School—  cases of scarlet fever affecting
  pupils half days.

Hamilton Street School—  cases of scarlet fever affecting
  pupils half days.

South Chestnut Street School—  case of scarlet fever
affecting pupils half days.

Precious Blood School—  case of scarlet fever affecting
  pupils half days.

Dwight Street School--  case of scarlet fever affecting  
pupils half days.

St. Jerome School—  case of scarlet fever affecting  
pupils balf days.

  Report of School Committee.

: High School—  case of scarlet fever affecting pupil —

half days. .

Nonotuck Street School—  case of scarlet fever affecting
  pupils half days. Dwight Street School—  case of measles affecting pupils half days.

High School—  case of measles affecting pupil half
days.

Training School—  case of measles affecting pupil  
half days.

Ewingville Schoo!—  case of measles affecting pupil  
half days.

Nonotuck Street School—  cases of measles affecting
  pupils half days.

Chestnut Street School—  cases of measles affecting  
pupils half days.

St. Jerome School—  cases of measles affecting pupils half days.

Kindergarten School—  case of measles affecting pupils
S  half days.

Dwight Street School— case small pox affecting  
pupils half days; pupils of Lyman Street
School half days; pupil of Hamilton Street
School half days; and pupils of St. Jerome
School half days.

SUMMARY OF ALL DISEASES.

\ Diphtheria, cases affecting pupils half days.
Scarlet fever, e
Measles,  “s
Small pox, ‘s

  cases pupils half days

Report of School Committee.  

As is seen in the table of contagious diseases, the sanitary condition of the city would have been excellent
during the school year, if fora short time the measles
had not appeared to such an extent on the Highlands
and in the northern part of the city; fortunately the
sickness lasted only few weeks; but in that short
period cases appeared and affected pupils, causing
the loss of half days of schooling.

There were only cases of diphtheria this year, while
last year’s report showed cases, making cases less ;
although we have had seven cases of scarlet fever more
this year than we had last year, and one case of small
pox retaining pupils half days; making in all
  cases of diseases during this year, against last year.

The following table shows the number of minors
between thirteen and sixteen years of age employed in
manufacturing, mechanical, or mercantile establishments
in the city.

MINORS EMPLOYED IN THE MILLS, SHOPS AND STORES
FROM DECEMBER TO DECEMBER AND
FROM DECEMBER TO DECEMBER ].

 
Farr Alpaca Co.,  
Merrick Thread Co.,  
Lyman Mills,  
Hadley Thread Co.,  
Springfield Blanket Co.,  
Holyoke Warp Co.,.  
Skinner Silk Co.,  
Germania Mill,  

\
  Report of School Committee.
Connor Bros.,  
Chemical Paper Co.,  
D. Mackintosh Sons Co.,  
National Blank Book Co.,  
Seymour Cutlery Co.,  
Chadwick Plush Co.,  
Albion Paper Co.,  
Newton Paper Co.,  
Massachusetts Screw Co.,  
Holyoke Envelope Co.,  
Parsons Paper Co.,.  
Tuttle Rubber Co.,  
Syms Dudley Paper Co.,  
Nonotuck Paper Co.,  
Winona Paper Co., l
Holyoke Paper Co.,  
Holyoke Machine Co.,  
Beebe, Webber Co.,  
Buchanan, Bolt Co.,  
Hampden Glazed Paper Co  
Beebe Holbrook Paper Co.,.  
Taylor Manufacturing Co.  
McCallum, Constable Hosiery Co.,  
Glasgow Co., (S. Hadley Falls),  
C. H. Bausch Machine Co.,  
American Pad Co,  
Deane Steam PumpCo, im)
Powers Paper Co..  
Riverside Paper Co.,  
Brown Sellers Co.,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  

Report of School Committee.  

| Whiting Paper Co.,  
Griffith, Axtell Cady Co.,  
Springfield,  
Stores, etc.,  
Total,  

The Truant Officers have visited the mills during each
term as the law required and have made in all visits
to the different corporations, shops and stores of the city,
and found with satisfaction that all the proprietors of
mills and their overseers were doing the best they could
to observe the law in every way; we have found few
minors under fourteen employed after the expiration of
their certificate and these cases were without the knowledge of the overseers; such persons were immediately
discharged by the employers.

During the last school year eleven boys were discharged from the Truant school, two on account of their
parents removing from the city, the other nine on
account of their good conduct during the time that they
were at the institution; these returned to the city and
have become regular attendants at school giving us no
trouble whatever, in regard to their attendance at school,
except in the case of two, who were sent to the Lyman
school at Westboro for stealing.

TRUANCY.

During the year ending June  eight prosecutions
were made for truancy and all sentenced to the Truant
school, eaeh for the term of two years. We have now at

  Report of School Committee.

the institution nine boys; the most of them will probably
be discharged before the close of the present school year,
as the Superintendent of the school has already informed
us that the boys are doing well. The parents of the
boys that have visited the school speak in the highest
terms of the treatment that the boys have received from
the Superintendent and Matron.

In glancing over the foregoing tables the casual observer
would hardly stop to consider the amount of labor
done during the past year. But let him examine them
closely and he will find in the table of aggregates, that
we had the names of pupils to look up and this
same number of their homes to visit and personally
interview, and then parents to interview, to find
out why these children were detained from school. We
have also made visits to the City Physician’s office,
to ascertain whether there has been any cases of contazious diseases reported to him by the other doctors; if
so, we immediately quarantined the children where the
diseases were. We have also made visits where
measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria, small pox, etc.,
have been, and quarantined over pupils that were
attending school. From December  st,  to December  st,  we have made visits to the mills, shops
and mercantile establishments in relation to the employment of minors, as the statute requires. His curiosity
will then be aroused to wonder how it is that we can
accomplish so much work outside, and find time to
devote from an hour to an hour and half to office work
every day.

In conclusion we feel grateful to you, gentlemen of

Report of School Committee.  
the School Committee, and Superintendent, also the
Committee on Census, Attendance and Truancy, for
your kind co-operation. Also to the principals and
teachers in assisting us in the discharge of our duties.

Respectfully submitted,
T. W. DOYLE,
EDWARD CADIEUX,
Truant Officers.

Report of Superintendent.
To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke:
GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to present to you my
fourteenth annual report.
SUMMARY OF STATISTICS.
Population of the City, U. S. Census, 
Truant Officers’ Census, 
“s .s 
‘§ ‘* 
“ 
C rT 
““ 
- 
United States 
Gain during the past year,  
Gain during the past ten years,  
Gain per cent. during the past ten years, about  
Valuation,  
Rate of Taxation on 
Rate of Taxation for Schools,  

Report of School Committee.  
SCHOOL CENSUS.

Children between and years old in 
ce 

 cé 

G  Cé 

  
Gain since 
Gain since 
Average gain per annum since 
Children between and years,  

NATIONALITY.
 
Irish Parentage,  
French  
American  
German  
English 
Scotch  
Other  
Total,  
GENERAL ENROLLMENT.
 

Public Schools,  
Private and Parochial,  
All Schools,  
Decrease within year, Public,  
Decrease within year, Private and Parochial,  
Increase per annum since  all schools,  

  Report of School Committee.
EVENING SCHOOLS.
Admission tickets issued, 
Enrollment  Av. Attendance  Cost,$  
“   
“  ‘*  
“ ‘*  
“   
é ‘‘  ‘*  
“  ‘S ‘*  
"  ‘* “e  ‘*  
é  
“  ‘*  ‘*  
“  ‘*   ‘‘  ‘*  
" ‘*  
“   
THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
EXPENDITURES.
By School Committee,  
“  
Average annual increase since 
COST PER PUPIL PER ANNUM.

In 
In 
In 
In 
In 

Report of School Committee.  
HIGH SCHOOL.
Number of teachers, to 
“ to 
“ to 
“ pupils in 
‘$ 
“ 
‘$ ‘s 
“  
se ‘* this term,  
GRAMMAR AND PRIMARY.
Number of Schools in No of Teachers,  
. ‘s “s ‘*  
‘  “é *$  
“ 
é 
Regular teachers of classes,  
Principals of buildings having more than rooms,  
Training assistants,  
Special teachers,  
, Number of male teachers,  
Number of female teachers.  
BUILDINGS AND ASSISTANTS.
West Holyoke, room now occupied room
West Street,  *
Ingleside, 

  Report of School Committee.
Elmwood, rooms; now occupied rooms
Ewingville,  *
Lyman Street,  *§
Nonotuck Street,  §
Chestnut Street, ss  
Dwight Street,  S
So. Chestnut Street,  §
Sargeant Street, ss s
Park Street, f
Elm Street, lO 
Appleton Street,  “s *§
Hamilton Street, ‘“*  
Number of schoolhouses,  
“ rooms,  
“ occupied,  
Unoccupied Nonotuck Street,  
CERTIFICATES FOR LABOR.
DECEMBER TO DECEMBER .
Males. Females. Total. Total.
 .
Persons between and 
“ 
“   
SCHOOL YEAR.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS, SEPTEMBER TO JUNE .
Average number of schools,  
Average length in days of the school year,  
Equivalent to keeping one school days.

Report of School Committee.  
ENROLLMENT DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR.
Under years old,  
Over years old,  
Between and 
All others,  
Total enrollment,  
Enrolled during the preceding year,  
Loss,  
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANOE.
Average membership, first term,  
Per cent. of attendance,  
Average membership, second term,  
Per cent. of attendance,  
Average membership, third term,  
Per cent. of attendance  
Average membership, year, 
Per cent. of attendance, year,  
Loss in membership since last year,  
Per cent. last year,  
TARDINESS.
First term, Boys, Girls, Total  
Second ‘‘ ‘. ‘*  
Third ‘‘ ‘. 
Total per year, ‘* ‘*  
TRUANTS.
Warrants issued for prosecution,  
Sent to Truant School,  
Discharged from County Truant School,  
In County Truant School, Dec.  

  Report of School Committee.
ABSENCES.
Number of half days of absence, truancy,  
“  sickness,  
“ other causes,  
Total,  
TEACHERS SALARIES, DECEMBER,  .
Highest salary of male teacher, 
. female  ‘‘  
Lowest male  
“e female 
Average ‘' male 
“ female  
ee  all teachers,  
COST OF INSTRUCTION IN DAY SCHOOLS.
Average cost per pupil per enrollment, 
“ ‘* av. membership,  
The estimates and expenditures for the fiscal year
closed November  as follows:

Estimates, Feb.,  Expenditures to Novy.  .
Day Teachers,  
Superintendent,  
Evening Teachers,  
Furniture,  
Truant School,  
| Janitors,  
Truant Officers,  

Report of School Committee.  
Clerk,  
Books and Maps, 
Supplies,  
Contingent,  . 

FINANCES.

The amount of your expenditures during the fiscal
year just closed, (December ), is the
same being  in excess of estimates made in February last, and exding the preceding year’s expenditures by The excess over estimates is due (a)
to increase in janitors’ pay rolls ($ caused by adding
new rooms incrowded districts, and (b) to the accruing
of the evening draughting school teacher's salary for the
last two terms, wholly within the last fiscal year. The
increase in expenditures will be found chiefly in (a) the

: increase of certain principals’ salaries, about (b)
the establishment of the Training school, (c) the
maturing of salaries by the completion of terms of service, and (d) the change of salary basis to secure
equalization of the lower six grades, raising the salaries
of the lower three and reducing those of the grades above,
the rule providing for increased rate to all new appointees, but permitting old appointees to retain the old rate,
making difference of about Estimates were
overrun in the text-book account over incidental to
the establishment of the Training school and the introduction of the Woods Natural History Reader, but the
ordinary school-room supplies were cut down an equal

 Report of School Committee.

amount. thoughtful survey of the field discloses no
reason for greatly increased demand for next year. The
Committee may see fit to gratify its own desire to enlarge
its libraries of supplementary reading and reference
books, but this outlay will be partly balanced by curtailment in the supply of regular Readers. Also, there
will be limited demand for new furniture—some for
new rooms, and some to replace other furniture worn out
or unsuitable to grade.

ACCOMMODATIONS.

. In response to the Committee’s request for new building to be located farther north than the Nonotuck street
house, the City Council authorized the addition of another story tothe Nonotuck, at an expense of The
story gives us two school rooms and an office room in
front, and hall, equal in size to two school rooms, in the
rear, the latter to be partitioned and used as school rooms
when necessary. This third floor is reached by three
staircases, one ascending from the rear corridor and
reaching the third floor near the rear entrances of the
hall and the north school room, and the other two winding upward from the front corridor directly over the
Staircases leading to the second floor. Fire escapes
have been attached to the north and south sides of the
rear section of the building, upon which doors and
windows open from the different stories. The south
front room is already occupied, and the north one will
be filled, doubtless, next spring. The teachers complain of omission or insufficiency of means for deadening the floors, and possibly some means must be found
to lessen the overnead noises.

Report of School Committee.  

The raising of the large roof and the enlargement of
the building were as speedily and successfully accomplished as could have been expected upder the circumstances, and the city authorities may be tempted to
secure in similar way additional accommodations now .
wanted in other parts of the city; but think you will
deem this innovation scarcely worthy of imitation. The
price of land is not yet high enough in Holyoke to justify
the construction of three-story schoolhouses.

I ask the attention of this Committee to three imperative demands for accommodations, viz.,

Ist, The North Flat.

 d, The Elmwood region.

 d, The High School district.

You are aware that all of the reomson the ‘North
Flat’’ are occupied, that some of them are overcrowded |
that even the office room of the Dwight Street School,
needed for the principal’s use,  given up to class work
exclusively, and that all pupils of this region have to be
transferred to the distant Hamilton street building upon
attaining the seventh grade. The citizens of the region
would have little cause for complaint if only the ninth
grade children, or perhaps the eighth and ninth, had to
take the long twice daily journey, on account of the
excellent appointments and equipment of the Hamilton
Street Grammar School; but the recent and prospective
growth of the section, and the present serious inconvenience will impress you with the necessity for immediate action toward relief. In this connection you will
doubtless consider the need of Primary school house
at some distance east of the present school house, the

  Report of School Committee.

erection of which will leave the Dwight eventually free
for equipment and useas full Grammar grade building.
The Elmwood conditions are equally serious and even
more complicated. Pupils from this entire region, upon
attaining the sixth grade, are compelled to attend the
South Chestnut and Appleton street schools.

The local building had only the two rooms occupied
before the building up of the ‘‘Brown Tract,’’ and the
crowd of children from this region has overtlowed both
the Appleton and the South Chestnut street houses.

, Increased accommodations in Elmwood will relieve both
the Appleton and the South Chestnut street buildings,
and would seem necessity. The tendency of recent
rapid growth indicates quite clearly what should be
done. The present structure cannot very well be enlarged, and much better location for new house can
be found just south of the old one between the latter
house and South street.

A genuine and earnest effort was made by Mayor Griffin and others to secure site for the proposed High
school house, but the authorities were unable to agree.
Among the sites seriously considered were the Ewing
homestead and lot included between Chestnut, Hampshire and Elm street and the alley between Cabot and
Hampshire.

The first choice of all persons canvassing the matter is
the so-called ‘‘Athletic Park,’’ located between Chestnat,
Maple, Essex and Cabot streets, but the prevalent impression that the grounds are destined for trade schools
or other educational purposes, deters efforts for its acquirement for ours. Many other localities have been menReport of School Committee.  
tioned, some of which are good. Indeed, the good locations, so far as territorial conditions are concerned, are
surprisingly few, the most important condition being not
centrality, but absence from noisy streets and alleys.
The present building has the latter nuisance in its rear,
and no wise committee, knowing this, would deliberately locate another High school house within less than
five hundred feet of the marvellous museums of the
overhanging piazzas of an alley, with their daily attendance of children of tender years and no judgment.

These things are all good in their place and their way,
and critical notice is given to them only because some of
the sites pressed upon the attention of the authorities
would have these objectionable features.

While do not assume to speak for the High School
Committee, or the members of the Board in general, am
nevertheless so familiar with your views upon this much
canvassed subject that would venture to write down
‘*seclusion from street and alley noises’’ as your first
prescribed requisite of suitable site with which you
might couple salubrity, after which you would doubtless
entertain the claims of centrality. The great inconvenience of the present crowded condition of the High
School, the lack of rooms, especially for the departments
of physics and mechanical drawing, as well as for class
recitations, are well known to you, and any honest, early
effort towards the provision of building suited to the
demands of modern High school would have your cordial encouragement.

  Report of School Committee.
HEATING AND VENTILATION.

W hile not perfect in its action, on account of the old
and feeble condition of window casings, the Fuller &
Warren apparatus placed in the Chestnut street schoolhouse proves eminently successful and satisfactory.

This concern and some others have grasped the true
theories of schoolhouse heating, and the simple principle
of the admission of warmed air at the inner wall of the
room, and its expulsion at the same wall near the floor
is the fundamental secret of success.

It is now well known to you that the Hamilton street
system failed chiefly because it violated the second essential half of the principle, and the excellent plan and
workmanship of the Smead, Northcott Company, still
substantially intact in the building, could be readily re: formed as above indicated, and thus transform the conditions of house without ventilation to one of the best
ventilated in the city. Agitation of this subject cannot
well cease until at least this building, the Appleton and
the Park have been furnished with better means of ventilation than the dangerous open window, and better
heating than the continuous re-roasting of children or
foul air.

CONDITION AND NEEDED REPAIRS.

Elsewhere may be found list of requests for repairs
and improvements, many of which will doubtless impress themselves upon the attention of the proper
authorities. The floors of the Appleton street building
inspected last year and pronounced unsafe, or insufficiently supported, should receive early attention. The

Report of School Committee.  
lightness of the floor timbers has become quite apparent
under the strain incidental to the new calisthenics, and
it will be necessary either to strengthen the floor or to
weaken the exercises.

The grounds about many of the buildings need regrading and seeding, and for their protection and that of
the buildings, substantial gates should take the place of
the posts unaccountably standing at the entrances, most
of which would find more appropriate and much needed
employment as hitching posts for horses. All of our
schoolhouse grounds, except those of the Hamilton, |
should be securely fenced, and then at the close of
school hours each day their gates should be locked.
The neighboring citizens would soon learn to respect the
care that conserves the public grounds, now open to
vandalism or heedless use, at all hours of the day or
night. Many of our buildings are disgraced by nocturnal visitation, which good gates and locks would
effectually repel.

EVENING SCHOOLS.

It is interesting to observe the attendance upon our
evening schools from year to year, notwithstanding the
monotonous decadence of numbers after the second week
each year. The following table compares the last two
terms:

  Report of School Committee.
Av. AtEnrolled. Males. Females. Total. tendance,
*  os Sl  Sv
Chestnut, English Speaking,  iM  
W) Hh  
“ French ol sv Ry
eh)  Is. 
Dwight, “and Eng. Spk’y, Iss  
‘WO  
Park,  
ww Ix] 
Hamilton, "Y JAN Mm
" Yo German 
Total,  ),  .
‘M  
So far as attendance is concerned, we have about the
usual results. large number ask for membership tickets, while but little more than half of the attendance due
upon those tickets is realized, and an enrollment of nearly secures an attendance of only from to  
per evening. This condition has existed number of
years. The evening school committee is induced, by
the large number of applicants for membership tickets,
to appoint large corps of teachers. When the attendance begins to diminish efforts are made to restore it, but
without success. If the teachers are chosen for the term
none are dismissed and none resign. The consequences
require no elucidation. Obviously, either some means
should be found to induce or enforce attendance, or the
corps of teachers should be reduced as attendance diminishes. Some cities and towns require each pupil to
deposit dollar or two at the term’s opening, the return
of which amount at the term’s close, is conditional upon
the pupil’s good attendance and approved conduct.
If this rule should be made applicable only to pupils
whose attendance is voluntary, it could be so adminisReport of School Committee.  
tered as to work little hardship in any case, and great
reform in the attendance and discipline.

If school committees lack authority to prescribe the
conditions of attendance—and probably they do not—
then the Legislature should be appealed to for the needed legislation. But there is no lack of power to reform
the method of providing teachers, and the ways in which
their number can be limited to the actual needs of the
classes have doubtless suggested themselves to the Evening School Committee. Few of the teachers would refuse
acceptance of emp)oyment during the pleasure of the
Evening School Committee, and those not holding their
pupils would readily relinquish their places.

EVENING DRAUGHTING SCHOOL.

 Two terms of the Evening Draughting School have had
their beginning during this calendar year, one January
  which ended April  the other October  ,
and now running. The former term had enrolled
pupils and an average attendance of  These were
divided into two classes, viz., an advanced class and a
beginners’ class, reciting upon different evenings, the
former having one evening each week and the latter three
evenings in two weeks. The courses pursued were similar to those pursued in the Springfield school, and the
work done and the interest maintained were excellent.
The finished drawings of all the pupils were returned to
the school after the session closed, and were Kept in our
cases as long as we required them, for inspection or exhibition, and were at length returned to the students.
The term opening October had total enrollment of

.

  Report af School Committee.

  students, divided into three classes, the ‘‘ first year’”’
class numbering  attending Friday evenings; the
‘‘second year’’ class, numbering  attending Wednesday evenings, and the ‘‘ third year’’ class, numbering  ,
attending Monday evenings. During the first thirty
evenings of the term the average attendance of the first,
second and third year classes was  and  respectively.

The enrollment of the second term was less than that
of the first, but the average attendance was better. The
enrollment included several boys whose interest and attendance soon ceased, They are chiefly members of the
grammar schools, and their admission has thus far
proved of, at best, doubtful expediency. Mr. Charles
L. Allen, the sole instructor during the two terms, has
approved himself botb to his classes and the Committee,
and it should be deemed fortunate if his services might
be secured from term to term. In no other way cana

' draughting school be made useful to our citizens than by
continuing the advancing students under the same competent instructor, and the successors of this and the last

 year’s committees will doubtless discover the wisdom of
the latter’s course.
MARINE MUSEUMS.

There have been placed in the High School and Hamilton street buildings beautiful and useful cabinets of
marine specimens, safely and suitably cased for the inspection of classes and visitors. The former collection
cost about contributed by William Whiting,
James H. Newton, William Skinner, EK. C. Taft, Pierre

Report of School Committee.  
Bonvouloir, Edward P. Bagg, J.  S. McElwain, J. S.
Webber, George W. Prentiss Co., Elsie I. Chase, J.
Metcalf, George A. Clark, John O’Connell, William F.
Syms, George E. Dudley, Gilbert Potvin and William
H. Haywood. The Hamilton street cabinet was contributed by friends and neighbors of the school whose
names are not now at hand. The proper use of these
and other natural history specimens forms an important
part of the work in language and natural history. The
readiness of our citizens to respond to such calls, for
means to facilitate or strengthen their work, ought to
impress its lesson upon the teachers themselves. The
zeal of one person may place at the disposal of large
corps of teachers all valuable educational means or
material, without effecting any great good, unless inter. est attend possession, and attention recognize value.
USE OF LIBRARIES.

Besides the libraries accumulating in our buildings
from special sources, we have through the courtesy of
the Library authorities, the resources of the Public
Library. Since the concession made to the teachers last
year, Miss Sarah Ely, the librarian, who was several
years teacher in the public schools, has made list of
titles of works suitable for school use, which should be
printed, and bound with the Report, or separately, for
convenience of selection. When this shall have been
done it is believed that all of the teachers will be able to
use the library according to the terms of the concession.
The chief purpose of school use of libraries is not so

  Report of School Committee.
much the mastery of their contents, as the uses and usefulness of books.

The person who has learned how to use books, is, or
has the sure means of becoming educated. It is
well known that many in our very midst, beginning
without ‘‘liberal education,’ have acquired this
art and become learned in the essential sense. true
“literary taste’? is not gained by an aimless, listless
reading of many books for mere entertainment. This is
a serious vice almost ineradicable. The true taste includes not only the art of selection, but the ability to
read with pleasure, books selected for their bearing
upon one’s profession or the better culture. Even the primary school teacher can lay the foundation for this priceless acquisition. Because it is self-attained by only few,
it becomes the obvious duty of every teacher to lead her
pupils towards it. The child or young student need not
be required to read many books, and all of only very
few, but what is read should justify their selection by
the useful results of their use, and the reasons for their
selection; and these results, in the special Knowledge
acquired, should be made clear to the class. Much of
this training will result from the teacher's judicious use
of books in preparing for and conducting the daily work
of the class. The new book on her desk is one with
which she spent pleasant hour last evening in preparing for this morning’s recitation in geography. The five
or six minutes spent by the teacher, or some proficient
pupil, in reading from that book of wonders will greatly
impress her pupils with its value for definite purpose.
So, too, in teaching any topic, be it of science, of his

Report of School Committee.  
tory or of ethics, different books by different authors
writing upon the same subjects will be brought before the
class, their thoughts compared, their theories discussed.
This is but hint of one of many ways of book. teaching,
the methods of which comparatively few teachers seem to
have mastered, but the attitude and active interest of
our leading instructors have within them contagious
spirit which, resistless in other lines of reform, will
prove potent inthis. Let us teach our children the true
uses of books, and consider no teacher fully competent
for the high vocation, until she learns the use and uses
of books for herself, and is able to lead others into the
same delightful and useful knowledge!

ATTENDANCE, CENSUS AND TRUANCY.

Your special committee will doubtless examine with
much interest the tables of attendance prepared by the
clerk; and the exhaustive report of the Truant Officers,
touching all of these matters. The officers’ service embraces four important branches, viz.: (@), compulsory attendance ), the discovery and quarantine of contagious
diseases (c), the three mill inspections, and (d@), the annual census of school children ‘The report conclusively
shows that the past fourteen years’ experience has settled the work into system, through which its multitude
of details receives attention generally in appropriate
time and manner.

During the periods of inspection and census taking,
however, only partial service can be given to the regular
school work in the one case, and is discontinued in the

  Report of School Committee.
other, except as to investigation of some cases of truancy,
or of contagious diseases reported by the principals of
buildings, or by the City Physician under whose special
direction all such cases are managed. The pardonable
impatience of the teachers at the loss of service during
the two periods referred to, has sometimes given occasion
for the expression of desire, either for the increase of
the service, or the transfer of the census and mill work
. to other hands. The result of discussion, however, has
always proved justification of the present means, because the knowledge of the city gained by the officers
from taking the census, and of the employed and employers gained from the inspections, more than compensate for the loss in other directions.

But notwithstanding the general success attending the
working of this department, the zerfect cure of truancy
must stand out of the reckoning. This partial failure
is not the fault of the officers, Truancy can be prevented in one of two ways; viz.: ), by sentencing to the
truant school, under the present law, every truant as
soon as discovered, or ), by securing the enactment of
a law permitting truant officers to arrest and detain temporarily any habitual truant.

The School Committee can neither sentence any truant
nor even procure the sentencing of more than limited
number, and every escape from sentence encourages the
more reckless to risk few more truancies, which are as
infectious as small-pox. The second method of cure was
practiced by us several years with success, before the
fatal decision of killed the spirit of the law and
restored to life the hideous thing for whose tolerable

Report of School Committee.  
restraint this city suffers more morally and pecuniarily
than any other city or town in the county. What shall
be done with it?

QUALIFICATION OF TEACHERS.
PARK STREET TRAINING SCHOOL.

Reference to the records discovers that the initiatory
step towards the establishment of Training school for
teachers was taken August at meeting of the
Board called for the purpose. Miss Bertha Pierce, of
North Attleboro, was duly elected to the principalship,
which she was compelled to decline because of her previous acceptance of appointment in Nashville. Efforts
to obtain suitable teacher were not relaxed, and were
at length crowned with success in the authorizations
voted February and for opening the school
and the engagement of Miss Katherine M. Hurlburt, of
Weathersfield, Conn. Miss Hurlburt graduated from the
Hartford High School in  from Smith College in  ;
took full course of training in pedagogics in the New
Britain Normal School, teaching the higher mathematics
there in the meantime. She next taught two years in
the New Haven High School and took, under Prof. Ladd
of Yale University, special course in philosophy and a
private course in psychology, at length resigning her
position to accept the headship of the pedagogical department in the University of Indiana. Family considerations led Miss Hurlburt to seek professional work at the
East, and you are to be congratulated upon the fortunate

  Report of School Committee.
circumstances which led to the engagement of lady of
her genuine quality, learning, professional equipment,
and organizing ability, for inauguration of the important
movement committed to her. Miss Hurlburt’s report
on another page will prove interesting to you as showing the character of the work undertaken, and her own
appreciation of the means to be employed for its successful prosecution.

Miss Hurlburt began her work Feb.  with the inspection of training schools in this and other states, the
gathering of material aids, and the preparation of her
building and corps of teachers, and March  twentyone students, all High school graduates, entered upon
their course. The work done with the students was at
first largely tentative, to find the condition of the local
High school graduate, with whom it was deemed desirable to complete the teacher-making process; this having
been determined, the length of the course, and the
general management to effectuate the proper instruction
and training of the individual student in responsible class
work, awaited careful investigation, and the action of the
Committee on Rules.

After several meetings and partial reports of the subcommittee, the whole matter of organization of the school
was referred to the Committee on Rules with power to
act. The Committee while not yet fully resolved upon
its policy, has laid down these leading purposes towards
which they will doubtless work forward, viz. :

.  course of four terms, one of which shall have
fourteen weeks and the others twelve each.

 The admission of students equal in numbers to

Report of School Committee.  
three times the number of regular schools in the building. (There are now six schools.)

 The condition of admission to the Training school
being (a) full High school diploma, or() examination
in the branches embraced in the English department of
our High school.

 The ultimate division of the training class into three
classes, each required to complete the regular course, the
pupils of each to spend the first third of the courseperiod in the study of theoretical pedagogics, with such
observation-work as may be deemed necessary; the
second third of the course-period partly in study and
recitation, and partly as assistant in aclass to which
each shall have been assigned; the last third of the
course-period in charge of the school where the student
had served as assistant.

 The full carrying out of this scheme will necessitate
the transfer of the regular class teachers ultimately to
other buildings, as suitable occasions may occur.

It would also be the purpose of the Board, doubtless,
as the High school would be tle chief feeder of the Training school, to require persons designing to take the
Training school course, to qualify themselves for admission by special attention to certain specified studies of
the course, which could in such case be omitted from the
Training school course, or only included in it for brief
review.

Completion of the organization of the school remains
with the Committee on Rules who will probably at no
distant day, make full report to the Board.

  Report of School Committee.
TEACHERS’ INSTITUTE.

The Institute was organized, under the rule, by the
appointment, as secretary, of Mr. John P. Cushing,
vice-principal of the High school. At my request
Mr. Cushing presents elsewhere brief report of the
work of the Institute. have been gratified with the
cordial support given it by the teachers generally, the
more experienced assuming their appropriate share of
the work, and all by generally constant attendance, and
the questioning spirit, contributing to the interest and
profit of the meetings. The Institute held here by Secretary Dickinson has given rise to the desire for an annual
State institute, and undoubtedly no wiser use could be
made of the first three days of the school year than in
such an institute held under the same auspices, the attendance of the teachers being required as in regular
school sessions. ,

REFORMS IN CURRICULUM.

I will anticipate your wish that the next school year
may witness substantial progress in the department of
manual training, and that sewing, wood-working, and, if
practicable, cooking, may receive due consideration, and,
ultimately, appropriate place and consequence in the
schools. It is too late to plead the utility of doing.

This Board has long been familiar with the demand
for culture relating more closely to the mechanic arts,
and this State knew no movement earlier than ours
toward this end. Nor should the commercial, Scientific
and literary courses suffer by association with the robust

Report of School Committee.  
genius of practicality, nor prejudice too strenuously resist logical and judicious re-arrangement of topics. A
knowledge of plants, animals, articles of common utility ;
of the algebraic equation and unknown quantity of
the simple principles and problems of geometry—these
should all precede and prepare for High school work,
and easily find room and welcome with the branches to
which they logically belong, or as auxiliary to others to
which they add interest and profit.

EDWIN L. KIRTLAND,
Superintendent of Schools.

| Holyoke High School.
WILLIAM EK, JUDD, PRINCIPAL.
NAMES AND PRESENT OCCUPATIONS OF THE
HIGH SCHOOL CLASS OF  .
Florence M. Brainard, Smith College.
Magvie E. Dixon, Smith College.
Annie L. Whitten, Smith College.
Maude B. Davis, Smith College.
Winifred F. Farley, Holyoke Training school.
Annie Miller, Holyoke Training school.
Lizzie J. Markham, at home.
Johanna C. Cavanaugh, at home.
Edith B. Stearns, at home.
Gertrude A. Perkins, at home.
Harriet B. Grant, with Hubbard Taber.
Winifred L. Judd, with D. O. Judd.
James A. Burke, Lyman Mills.
W. Libbey Eaton, Deane Steam Pump Co.
Chas. H. Davenport, Carew Paper Co.
William R. Shumway, Whiting Paper Co.
Perley O. Miller, International Lumber Co., Newport, Vt.

Report of School Committee.  
Mr. E. L. Kirtland, Supt. of Schools:

Dear Sir:—In this, my seventh annual report, wish
to speak more fully and definitely than heretofore, of
the plan and arrangement of the High school work.

Since my accession to the principalship it has been my
constant desire and aim to arrange the work in departments, and to have at the head of each department a
teacher, who, by special training and intellectual bent,
was fitted for that particular work.

This hope is now approaching realization. The work
is as far as possible classified, and in charge of each department is trained and competent teacher, specialist.

The arrangement of the work is as follows: }

The principal teaches civil government, modern history, and is responsible for the college preparatory work
in Latin.

The vice-principal, Mr. Cushing, teaches political
economy, astronomy, and higher mathematics, and is
responsible for the preparation in mathematics. His
work leaves nothing to be desired.

Miss Bell has charge of the modern languages, and in
her department has no superior in New England.

Miss Chapin teaches chemistry, physics, geology,
zoology and physiology. The efficiency of her work is
impaired by the necessity, which our lack of room
forces upon us, of having her in charge of room, when
she should be free for work in the laboratory.

Mr. Moriarty teaches the Greek and assists in Latin;
he has proven himself critical student and thorough
instructor.

Miss Brockway teaches the elementary mathematics

  Report of School Committee.
and botany, and is valuable addition to our corps of
teachers. |

Miss Fay has charge of the English department, and
it is to this work that desire to call your especial attention.

The weakness of the modern High school all over this
land has been in its teaching of English, and the thoughts
of educators everywhere have been turned more and more
to this problem: ‘‘How shall we give better and broader
culturein English to our pupils?’ Our High school has
been no exception to the rule. While we have sent pupils to the different colleges, who have done themselves
and the school honor; while we have sent forth year by
year, graduates, who, as rule, are better prepared because of their connection with the school, to act their
parts as patriotic: and enlightened citizens of this good
country, we have been conscious that in the Knowledge
of and ability to use our own language, they have been
deficient. Weare now prepared to make our weakness
strength. Miss Fay is fully equipped for the work and
thoroughly in earnest, and we already see the promise of
a plan which will enable each pupil to have systematic
and progressive instruction in English, from the beginning to the end of his High school course.

In this connection [I wish to make the following suggestions: Let the pupils who enter the school, choose
for the first year between Latin and English let arrangements be made for special work in English, at least once
a week, by the Latin pupils; let French and German be
commenced the second year and continued three years,
the course to be arranged by Miss Bell.

Report of School Committee.  

I believe we are making steady improvement in the
quality of our work and the character of the results
obtained.

Weare crippled in many ways, however, by lack of
room. Particularly is this true in the work in drawing.
Mrs. Ferry, the enthusiastic teacher in this department,
had sucded in arousing great deal of interest in this
work, and had obtained results which attracted very
favorable notice from high authorities.

This work, so well begun, and so promising, is completely at stand-still, as thereis no room where her
classes can be gathered.

A new building, constructed after modern ideas, and
equipped with proper appliances, is an investment
which will bring large and immediate dividends to the
people of Holyoke, in the increased culture which each
High school pupil will receive. .

During the year we have expended one hundred dollars in gymnastic apparatus and have added to our
library, ‘‘ The Life of Lincoln’’ by Nicolay and Hay,
The ‘‘Century War Book,” the memoirs of Sherman
and Sheridan, and several books of less importance.

I cannot close without referring to the very pleasant
and harmonious relations which have existed between
the teachers of the school. No principal could receive
a more loyal or cordial co-operation from his assistants,
ora more generous support from Superintendent and
Committee, than has been given to me during the past
year.

Yours very truly,
W. E. JUDD,
Principal.

  Report of School Committee.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION, HIGH
SCHOOL, JUNE,  .

ARITHMETIC.
NOTE.—The pupil may omitany two of the following problems. |
I. Write: (a.) five thousand and thirteen thousandths
. (b.) four hundred, four and four bundredths.
(c.) three hundred and eleven thirty-ninths.
, (d.) give their sum.

II. Reduce to fraction whose denominator is
(a)  (b)  .

III. feet inches is what per cent of feet inches ?

IV. man sold crockery for at loss of  
per cent. What did it cost him ?

V. If man gained  by selling bonds for  
that cost him  what was the par value ?

VI. Find out the smallest sum of money that can be
made up of cent, cent, cent, cent, or cent
pieces.

VII. The longitude of Berlin is degrees minutes
east, and that of New York is degrees minute west ;
when it isnoon at Berlin, what is the local time in New
York ?

VIII.  per month equals the income of what sum
invested in per cent. bonds at par?

IX. For what sum must note be given, for days,
in order that the prods may be the rate being  
per cent.?

X. Find the interest at per cent. on from
October  to June .

XI. Two ships sail from the same port, one due north

Report of School Committee. miles, the other due east miles how far apart are
they ?

XII. If three men build wall feet long, feet wide
and feet high, in days, how many men will be required to build wall feet long, feet wide, feet
high, in days ?

GEOGRAPHY.

NOTE.—The pupil may omit any two of the numbers

I. What are the tropics and polar circles? Give the
width of the zones, and tell how the earth came to be so
divided ?

II. Name five causes affecting the climate of place ?
France and Maine are in nearly the same latitude how
and why does their climate differ ?

IIf. Name and locate the most important four seaports of the United States? Name three imports from
Europe, and three from Asia 

IV. What parts of the United States are adapted to
manufacturing? Tomining? To agriculture? To graz
ing? State why they are so adapted ?

V. In what country are the following rivers, and into
what do they flow: Po? Danube? Rhine? Nile?
Yukon? Niger? Ganges? Lena? Delaware? St.
Lawrence ?

VI. Draw map of Massachusetts. Locate upon it
the county in which you live, river, the highest
muuntain-peak, five cities. Mention two articles in the
manufacture of which Massachusetts excels.

VII. Describe the course of vessel from San Fran.
cisco to Constantinople from New York to Ceylon.

  Report of School Committee.

VIII. Starting from New York on pleasure trip,
name two placesin Europe that you would visit, and
something in each that you would want to see two places
in Asia and one in Africa.

IX. Locate the following and state of what larger
bodies of water they are part: Seaof Marmora, Baltic,
Hudson Bay, North Sea, Mediterranean Sea.

X. Explain the difference between the governments of
the United States, England, Russia, Brazil and Germany.

XI. Of what are the following cities the capitals:
Quito? Brussels? Lisbon? Rome? St. Petersburgh  ?
Calcutta? Cairo? Teheran? Austin? Ottawa?

XII. Mississippi river: give itssource? Between and
through what states does it flow? Name its largest five
tributaries? Name five cities situated on it ?

, LANGUAGE.

 Compose sentence of not less than three lines,
showing the use of punctuation, abbreviations, and
quotation marks.

 Write the plural of valley, Miss Brown,  datum,
alumna, sheep, negro, folio, wife, thief.

 Compose sentence with the subject modified by
a complex phrase, and the predicate by complex objective clause.

 Write the possessive, singular and plural of beauty,
sister-in-law, chief, Knight-templar, mulatto, chimney,
radius, tooth, knife, analysis.

 Compose sentence with the subject and object
each modified by an appositive phrase.

Report of School Committee.  

 Give the principal parts of tly, seek, run, lay, lie
(to recline), write, strike, fight, begin, come.

 Compose sentence containing collective and an
abstract noun.

 Give the masculine form of Frances, hen, ewe,
duck, filly; and the feminine forms of count, bull,
peacock, czar, administrator. |

 Compose sentence containing the verb, write,
used in the potential mode, past perfect tense, active
voice. Change the sentence so that the verb will be in
the passive voice.

 When the politicians met in convention, the
wisest men, who possessed the highest interest of the
whole country, declared that an eminent statesman
should be elected President. What kind of sentence
is this?’ Underline the clauses and tell the kind.

SPELLING.

' Preface, drainage, persistent, abatement, alpaca, receive, attorney, ‘pulley, mosquito, grammar, aqueduct,
arithmetic, physiology, carriage, believe, paradise,
apparel, chaplain, biscuit, luncheon.

HISTORY.

I. What three races of men either lived upon
or saw this continent before Columbus came? Give
a date when one of these races saw America. Why
is it of little account whether or not Europeans came
here before Columbus? Give five characteristics
or traits of the Indians.

  Report of School Committee.

II. Give date and place of five permanent settlements
made on this continent by three nations during the first
quarter of the  th century.

III. What class of people came to Virginia? )
Why did they come’? What class came to Massachusetts? What did they come for? Why did
most of the settlers leave Europe and come to this country Connect each date with an important event :
(  .

IV. Where did each of the following classes settle )
The Quakers, the Catholics, The Huguenots
( Where did Roger Williams settle? Why did he
leave the Massachusetts Bay Colony? Give date, )
name and the three principal parts of the treaty
that settled the territorial dispute among the great
nations.

V. Name three English acts or laws that helped

, to bring on the Revolutionary war. What two
battles were fonght in Massachusetts? What one for
defence of New York? What led the English to leave
Philadelphia after they had taken it? What great
surrender in  In what colonies were the Tories
very strong? Name the last grand military event
of the war.

VI. What is the constitution of country? )
When was our constitution adopted? What was
the fault with the articles of Confederation that were
in force before the constitution was adopted? )
Whenwas Washington in office? Why did Spain
have right to say anything about the Mississippi river
in our early history  Why did the Americans sym.

Report of School Committee.  
pathize with France in its troubles? Name two
measures or questions that divided the people into political parties in Washington’s time. Give briefly the
Alien and Sedition laws.

VII. Name five Acts, Bills or Decisions that
disturbed the North and South from till the Civil
war. Name the  d,  th,  th,  th and  th presidents, and tell when each was in office.

VILI. Give the causes of the Civil war, stating The
doctrine held by the South, former time when the
South tried to put it into force, Why the South tried

to secede at this time ). Whereand when was
the opening event of the war? Name five places
on the Mississippi river captured by the Union side

IX, Name in order of rank, the three great Union
generals of the war, and tell an important piece of work
accomplished by each. Give name of Union commander
of each: Second Bull Run, Fredericksburgh,
( Gettysburgh. Give two important results of the
Civil war. What spirit was shown by Grant at the
close of the war? What venerable general in former
wars was too old for active service in the Civil war ?

X. What four presidents died in office 

( What two presidents were father and son?

( Give the substance of Monroe Doctrine.

( From whom does it take its name ?

( What occasion did the United States have to
enforce it after the civil war.

( Who was called the Great Peace Maker ?

( Toward what form of government has the
world moved. for the last century 

  Report of School Committee.
APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.
GRADUATES OF  .

AGE. NAMES, WHERE THEY ARE,
  Anna L. Bogart, At home.
  Laura Chase, High School.
  Emily Collingwood, High School.
  Frances M. Cox, High School.
  Kathleen A. Gleason, High School.
  Emma G. Griffis, High School
  Mary L. Kelley, At home.
  Leah L. Lawlor, High School.
  Carrie S. Leeman, High School.
  Addie M. Matthews, High School.
  Sadie L. Mayberry, High School.
  Grace M. Miner, Applt’n St. School
  Josephine S. Montgomery High School.
  Mabel L. Moore, High School.
  Marietta C. Netherwood, High School.
  Joanna C. Newton, Temple Grove Bean N.Y.
  Maud E. O’ Donnell, High School.
  Katharine C. Scolley, High School.
  Ella B. Spencer, High School.
  Clara Topham, At home.
  Lulu York, At home.
  Frederick J. Batchelor, High School. ;
  Warren Bliss, At home.
 Richard D. Bloom, At Rand Co.’s
  Frank E. Buckley, At home.
  Michael F. Casey, At home.
  Charles W. Coit, High School.
  Robert A. Glesmann, Whiting Paper Co

Report of School Committee. Ralph H. Heywood, High School.
  George E. Hicks, Crocker Mfg. Co.
  Edward J. Humeston, High School.
  Dan J. Kimpton, Wilbra’m Acad’ y
  Charles L. Leslie, High School.
  Francis J. Mullen, In Pennsylvania.
  David N. S. Munsie, At home.
  Herbert Newton, St. Johnsbury Academy,
  #Albert J. Page, City Nat'l Bank.
  Elzear J. Proulx, High School.
  Frederick J. Rooney, High School.
  Dwight A. Thayer, High School.
  Walter J. Walsh, Fitzgerald Co.
  Horace G. Young, High School.

Whole number pupils,  Average age of girls,  
years months. Averageageof boys, years months.
Average age of class, years months. Oldest pupil,
  years months. Youngest pupil, years months.

THE LIBRARY.

The libraries of the Appleton Street School contain
  volumes, being added the past year. The following are the titles of the new books:

Municipal Register of the City of Holyoke, ,
  volumes; Nicolay and Hay’s Life of Abraham Lincoln,
  volumes; Century Dictionary, volumes American
Institute of Instruction,  Bryce’s American Commonwealth, volumes; Miss Pratt’s Fairyland of Flowers; New Kngland Journal of Education, volumes  ,
 Annual School Reports of the City of Holyoke,
  to The American Teacher, volume  Teach  Report of School Committee.

ers’ Institute and Practical Teacher, volume  Education, volume  Common School Education,
volume Africa Illustrated England Illustrated
with Pen and Pencil Boone’s Education in the United
States; Froebel’s Education of Man; Guimps’s Pestalozzi: His Lifeand Work; Kay’s Memory: What It is
and Howto Improve It; Pickard’s School Supervision;
Parker’s How to Study Geography; Preyer’s Senses
and the Will; Preyer’s Development of the Intellect ;
Lange’s Higher Education of Women in Europe; HowJand’s Practical Hints for the Teachers of Public
Schools; Morrison’s Ventilation and Warming of School
Buildings Klemm’s European Schools; Quick’s Essays
on Educational Reformers Ridpath’s History of the
World, volumes Knox’s Boy Travellers in China and
Japan, Siam and Java, Ceylon and India, Egypt and the
Holy Land, Africa, South America, Russian Empire,
Congo, Australasia, Mexico, and Great Britain and Ireland, volumes; Brown’s Science For All, volumes;
Fifty-Fourtbh Annual Report of the Massachusetts Board
of Education, Reclus’s The Earth and Its
Inhabitants, volumes Reclus’s New Physical Geography, volumes; Frye’s Child and Nature, or Geography
Teaching; Call’s Power Through Repose; Mrs.
Oliphant’s Makers of Florence; Encyclopedia Britannica, volumes Stedman and Hutchinson’s Library of
American Literature, volumes; Hudson’s History of
American Journalism; Appletons’ Cyclopedia of
American Biography, volumes.

|

Report of School Committee.  
THE TYPEWRITER IN SCHOOL.

During the year our pupils have three regular examinations in all the studies, besides many special tests. It
has been customary to write these questions upon the
blackboard. Itis believed that pupils have often injured
their eyes by examining and studying these questions at
too great distance. Two years ago we purchased the
Edison Mimeograph, which has been of invaluable
service. Last October our school purchased No.  
Remington Typewriter, with an  -drawer roll-top desk
of oak, with antique finish, together with the Edison
Mimeograph attachment, all costing Printed certificates of stock were issued, each share costing twentyfive cents. Nearly all the pupils bought share, and
some two or more shares) Twoof our teachers having
learned how to use the typewriter, printed copy of the
examination questions is now placed upon each pupil’s |
desk This great improvement over the former method
is highly appreciated by all.

IMPERATIVE WANTS.

 new and improved system of ventilation.  .
Gas fixtures in Rooms and and in the office.  |
Strengthening the timbers of the floors soas to make the
building safe.  Sheathing the ceilings of the rooms and
the basement.  New floors throughout the building.  .
New furniture in several rooms. new bookcase in
the office.

  Report of School Committee.
HAMILTON STREET SCHOOL.
GRADUATES, JUNE,  .

AGE. NAMES. WHERE THEY ARE.
  Maud M. Baldwin, High School.
  Katie E. Browne, High School.
  Kittie R. Burke, High School.
  Grace R. Chapman, At home.

  Gertrude M. Cressy, High School.
  Mary E. Curley, High School.
  Ella M. Gilday, At home.

  Louisa J. Hurlburt, High School.
  Cora M. Marrs, High School.
  Teresa J. O’ Connell, At home.

  Delia V. O’Brien, High School.
 Juizzie G. Reardon, High School.
  Mary M. Schmitter, High School.
  Sara V. Sullivan, At home.
  Willard B. Beach, High School.
  M. Leo Burke, High School.
  Ambrose L. Browne, High School.
  Thomas F. Connors, C. E. Ball Co.
  Arthur D. Cutting, Hamilton School.
  Daniel P. Hartnett, High School.
  Merton Hughes, High School.
  Charles H. Landry, High School.
  William J. McLaughlin, High School.
  George Manning, High School.
  John F. Mahaney, Working.
  Jeremiah F. Sculley, High School.
  Joseph EF, Ranger, At home.
  Charles E. Whittaker, High School.

Report of School Committee. Henry White, Working.
  George Keys, Working. .

Number in the class,  Average age of the boys,  
years, months. Average age of the girls, years,  
months. Average age of the class, years, months.

MUSEUM.

During the past year valuable collection of shells
and corals has been purchased at cost of This
money was raised by subscription among the manufacturers, merchants, and friends of the school in our neighborhood. .

This collection includes different varieties of ceral,
and different varieties of shells. These specimens
have been brought from all parts of the world, and include many rare kinds.

Prof Egar has presented the school with fine collection of butterflies. Mr. Chas. A. Maher of Baltimore, a
graduate of the class of has given usa curiosity in
the shape ofa little dog. This little dog is made from
U. S. Greenbacks, which have been redeemed and macerated by the government. It is estimated that 
were used in its manufacture.

TYPEWRITER.

The pupils have purchased typewriter, which proves
very useful in different ways. In the first place, all
pupils who own three or more shares are allowed tu use
it until they become quite proficient writers. This is
surely agreat benefit tothem. In the next place, we
can print one copy on the typewriter and then from it
make as many copies as are desired.

  Report of School Committee.

This is done by means of the Mimeograph, which the
school has owned for several years. All examination
questions are now prepared in this way, so that each
pupil has printed copy of the questions and is not
obliged to strain his eyes by trying to read writing on
the blackboard in poor light. Search questions in the
different studies, dictations, and supplementary reading lessons are also prepared in the same way. The
only trouble is that one typewriter is hardly sufficient
for the number of pupils who wish and are entitled to
use it. Itrust at some future time that the Committee
may be able to place several machines in each school
building.

LIBRARIES.

At the commencement of the present year change
was made in the plan and scope of our libraries. The
last hour of every Friday afternoon is known as the
“reading hour.’’ At that time pupils of all grades from
the II to the LX, both inclusive, take papers, magazines,
or books to read. The design is to supply each grade
above the first with reading that is adapted to their age
and comprehension. This plan thus far has proved
successful. The libraries now number volumes.
During the year new volumes have been added, the
titles of which are as follows:—

Nicolay Hay’s Abraham Lincoln, history, volumes; Stanley’s In Darkest Africa, volumes Compayre’s History of Pedagogy, Johonnot’s Book of Cats
and Dogs, Neighbors with Hoofs and Claws, Neighbors
with Wings and Fins, Friends in Feathers and Fur,
Isbister’s Fifth and Sixth Standard and Geographical

Report of School Committee.  

Readers, Fifty-Fourth Report of the Massachusetts
Board of Education, Report of the Department of Superintendence in Washington, Cajori’s Teaching and History of Mathematics in the United States, Blackmar’s
Federal and State Aid in Higher Education in the United
 States, Well’s History of the Eskimos, Painter’s History
of Education, Addresses of the National Educational
Association of  Flagg’s Year with Birds, Dole’s
The American Citizen, Appleton’s Cyclopedia of American Biography, Vol.  Sheppard’s Essays of George
Elliot, Daudet’s French Celebrities, Claretie’s French
Celebrities, Haweis’ My Musical Memories, Pope’s Popular Talks on Social and Sanitary Science, Farrar’s
With the Poets, Appleton’s Annual Cyclopedias for  
and  Walton’s Illustrative Practical Arithmetic,
Greenleaf’s The Complete Arithmetic, Woodburn’s Higher Education in Indiana, Com. Schley’s Greeley Relief
Expedition, Capt. Wheeler's United States Geographical Surveys, Album of Agricultural Statistics of the
United States, Report of the Third International Geographical Congress and Exhibit, Venice, Symon’s Upper
Columbia River, Ludlow’s Black Hills of Dakota, Rusk’s
Report of the Secretary of Agriculture,  Speaker’s
Garland and Literary Bouquet, volumes; Menocal’s
Report of the United States Nicaragua Surveying Party,
Report of the Commission of Indian Affairs, volumes ;
Land Office Reports, volumes; Thayer’s Marvels of
the New West, Riley’s Insect Life, Circulars of Information of Bureau of Education, Common School Education, Vol.  Littell’s Living Age, Vols. and  Harper’s Monthly Magazine, Vols. and  The Century,

  Report of School Committee.

Vol  American Teacher, Vol  Popular Educator,
Vols and  New England Journal of Education, Vols.
  and  New York School Journal, Vols.
  and  Craig’s Grand Army Picture Book, Butterworth’s Zigzag Journeys in the Levant, Shepard’s
Great Cities of the Ancient World, Bromfield’s The
Land We Live In, Harland’s Jessamine, Browne’s
Bugle Echoes, Matthew’s Dr. Gilbert’s Daughters, Roe’s Day of Fate, Trowbridge’s The Pocket
Rifle, The Jolly Rover, Young Joe and Other Boys,
Vandergrift’s The Queen’s Body Guard, Alcott’s Moods,
Adams’ On the Blockade, Taken by the Enemy, Wallace’s Ben Hur, Hale’s Christmas in Narragansett, Christmas in Palace.

The following papers and magazines are taken by the
school :

New England Journal of Education, New York School
Journal, Popular Educator, Youth’s Companion, Treasure Trove, School World, School Days, Our Little People, Wide Awake, The Story-Teller, Pansy, Our Little

, Men and Women, Babyland, Harper’s Young People.

Report of School Committee.  
NONOTUCK STREET SCHOOL.
JOHN A. CALLAHAN, PRINCIPAL.
GRADUATES, JUNE,  .

AGE. NAMES, WHERE THEY ARE.
  Ward A. Allyn, High School.
  Eddie S. Brooks, High School.
  John J. Crowley, At Work.
  Roy E. Clark, High School.
  William Davis, High School.
  Philip M. Judd, High School.
  James C. Murray, High School.
  Elmer W. Smith, High School,
  Joseph B. Woodruff, High School.
  Annie L. Abbott, High School.
  Bessie B. Bartlett, High School.
  Nettie M. Brooks, High School.
  Fannie Carrington, High School.
  Aline B. Clark, High School.
  Ktta L. Clough, High School.
  Susie B. Doane, High School.
  Ethel L. Frissell, High School.
  Ida M. Gage, High School.
  Annie L. Judd, High School.
  Phebe H. Mercier, High School.
  Olive M. Mercier, High School.
  Annie May Pierce, High School.
  Ella M. Randall, High School.
  A. Belle Smith, High School.
  Lillian M. Thorpe, High School.
  InaM. White, S. Lancaster Acad.

  Report of School Committee.

Average age of boys, years and months average
age of girls, yearsand months average age of class,
  years and months.

The demand for more room, so long felt in the school,
was met the past summer by raising the building one
story. The school has now more room. On the first
and second floors there is the same room as before the
building was enlarged. The third floor, or new portion,
is reached by three stairways. The hall for public
entertainments and special class exercises is on the third
floor.

The museum case and its contents were removed
to the third floor to make room for one of the stairways.
This is great inconvenience to the school. It is now
impossible to heat the large space occupied by the three
large hallways.

The new floor was not ‘‘deadened’’ as is the custom
in laying floors in schoolhouses and other buildings
where number of people are over others. Every separate footstep can be distinctly heard in the room below.
This is not the case with the old floors laid when the
building was erected. The floor should either be covered with rubber or else taken up and relaid.

The windows on the third floor are too low for the
safety of the pupils. The sills are just two feet and one
inch from the floor. This is but few inches above the
knees of the older pupils. The present defect should be
remedied by iron guards across the windows up to a
safe height.

The stair-railing of the fire escapes is too low. If any
one should stumble while going down, he would be

Report of School Committee.  
liable to fall out over the stair-railing to the ground. A
stair-railing on fire escapes for children, should be nearly as high as the shoulder.

New furniture has been furnished in room  the past
term. Room has now some old furniture brought from
some other school years ago. The old-fashioned stoolchairs are much harder to sit in than the modern wide
seat. This room should be furnished with new furniture.

A sidewalk is badly needed in front of the schoolhouse
to connect with Hampden street and the walk to the
south of the school.

A new flag has been purchased with money raised by
subscription. flag staff has been erected and early in
the coming year the tri-color will be flung to the breeze.

J. A. CALLAHAN, Principal.

  Report of School Committee.
, CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.
FRANCIS J. RILEY, PRINCIPAL.
GRADUATES,  .
AGE. NAMES. WHERE THEY ARE,
  Hattie Clara Blades, High School.
  Delia Gingras, High School.
  Alma Lucy Roy, High School.
  Robert Shea, High School.
  William Voight, High School.
Average age of girls, years months. Average age
of boys, years months. Average age of class,  
years and months. ;
By the kindness of Mr. James Ramage, representative,
the last report of the State Board of Education has been
added to the teachers’ library.
PARK STREET TRAINING SCHOOL.
MISS KATHERINE M. HURLBURT, PRINCIPAL.
MEMBERS OF TRAINING CLASS.

' Kmma Sophia Brooks, from Holyoke High School.
Frances Marguerite Broadhead,  “
Mary Teresa Canavan, ss  “
Adella Christina Cleveland, 
Katherine Frances Dowd, “s
Mamie Theresa Downey, 
Winifred Frances Farley, é
Kmma Blondena Gilligan, Powers Institute, Bernardston
Bessie Norwood Grant, from Holyoke High School
Delia Agnes Griffin, 
Dora Parmelia Howes, ce 
Emma Belle Ingraham, “s “e ee

Report of School Committee.  
Florence May Leslie, from Holyoke High School
Grace Loring, 
Emma Bridget McCabe, ““ ‘é ‘*
Caroline Esther Meacham, cs 
Annie Noble Miller, 
Delia Agnes Moriarty,  *
Lila Sinclair, Conway .s
Maude Stebbins, Holyoke “
Lillian Maria Tuttle, 

PARK STREET TRAINING SCHOOL.
REPORT OF THE PRINOIPAL.

Mr. E. L. Kirtland, Supt. of Schools:

As requested, submit the first annual report of the
Training School.

Late in February, the initial steps in the work of organizing the Park street primary grades into practice
schools were taken, and, on March  the Training
School was formally opened by the admission of twentyone students.

The organization of these graded schools in conformity
with the principles of teaching to be illustrated by them,
involved some radical changes in the methods of work
previously pursued. The practice schools exist for threefold purpose: to furnish the pupil-teachers permanent object lesson in wholesome school life, to provide
children—not theories—as the chief subjects of study,
and to offer field of action identicai with the future
school room of the young teacher, in which the student
may develop whatever potential faculty for teaching she
may possess such schools are to be model schools in the

  Report of School Committee.
sense that in them the pupils see exemplified the true
spirit of teaching and the most effective methods of
embodying that spirit. They furnish inspiration for
original investigation of school problems, but are preeminently disigned to afford each student the occasion to
discover her latent ability for instructing others, or to
reveal to her the important truth that nature never designed her to teach. With view to realizing these ends
the reconstruction of the Primary schools has been going
on to date. In spite of the ready co-operation of the
teachers in charge of the several grades the work of transformation has been slow and must necessarily be slow for
some time to come. It is the seed-time of the school.

Regular teachers’ meetings have been held for interchange of opinion as to the results of new methods of
work and for discussion of best means of solving the
fresh problems arising in the Primary schools, both in
their separate capacity and in their united relation to the
training class. For further unifying the work of the
two departments the teachers prepare written weekly
statements of the work accomplished in their respective
grades. In the first presentation of subjects they are
guided by somewhat minutely outlined syllabus
prepared by the principal at the opening of each term,
and made to include the entire range of studies for
the term. By this various means, connected system of work, adapted to illustrate every point in the
theory of teaching, is gradually evolving itself. Good
results among the children of the practice schools are
already marked.

Simultaneously with the work of reorganizing the

| Report of School Committee.  
primary rooms into practice schools, the training class
has been pursuing the course of work tentatively decided upon at the opening of the school. In order to give
an intelligent interpretation of the facts observed in the
model rooms, some previous knowledge of principles
underlying the work there illustrated is indispensable.
For this reason the first term was given largely to theoretical study, less to observation and practice. The work
of this term is barely step from the High school, yet
marks great transition. With the High school, memory studies and tests of memory cease. When the student enters the Training school she is thrown wholly
upon her native resources. She is made to realize that
the measure of her ready ability to comprehend, judge,
act, and speak for herself, is the measure of her qualification to teach and the sole test of it. Power of discriminative judgment and promptness to act on such
judgment are recognized as the sine gua non of the
efficient teacher. To cultivate these powers and furnish Knowledge of general principles and methods
sufficient for intelligent observation in the practice
schools, the studies of the term included psychology,
i. e., the elements of mental life and cultivation of the
senses; inventional geometry, the principles of the kindergarten system, methods of teaching primary number,
principles and methods of busy work for primary grades.
Observation in the practice schools was given as often as
the special points discussed could be rendered clearer or
emphasized by illustration.

At the opening of the second term the students entered on the actual work of teaching. Four hours per

  Report of School Committee.
week during the first three months were assigned to preliminary training in the reporting of lessons. These
lessons were given by the training teacher, critically analyzed by the students, and the results embodied in
written reports, Later, the students were required to
originate similar analytic plans of lessons to be given to
the children of the various grades. The last month of the
term was mainly devoted to teaching exercises given by
| the members of the class. These exercises are in the
nature of trial lessons designed to initiate the pupilteachers in the difficulties of handling class of children successfully, to reveal to each the peculiar obstacles
and errors liable to thwart her best efforts, as well as to
discover to the critic-teacher the student’s ideal of lesson
and measure of ability, to realize that ideal without practice. All members of the class daily prepare lesson outlines on certain subject matter assigned, one member
being selected to give the lesson the others are required
to make written reports and criticisms of the same.
These criticisms are then jointly discussed by criticteacher and class. The chief thought kept before the
students in their teaching work is that the school exists
for the children—not the children for the teacher—that
child-life is to be studied, sympathized with, moulded.
Whatever conduces to these results is part of right
method; whatever fails to do this is incontrovertibly
wrong.

The academic studies of the term included logic, psychology—embracing the special topics, attention and
memory— methods in advanced number, and methods
in elementary language work. One hour week was
devoted to the study of English and children’s literature.

Report of School Committee.  

In addition to the regular studies, the training class
has had the advantage of instruction by the special
teachers of the city. Prof. Zuchtman, during the first
term, began course in theory and methods of teaching
music; Mr. Eger likewise started course of work in
calisthenics; Mrs. Ferry, in the second term, gave a
series of lessons on the teaching of drawing; while Miss
McDonnell will give instruction in penmanship during
the sucding terms. It is the design of the special
teachers to equip the students with knowledge of the
principles underlying the entire work of their several
specialties and to enable them to go from the school with
a power to guide the work of the particular subject at
any step in the course from primary grades to High
school. This work is invaluable to the pupils in their
individual culture as well as to the city in their capacity
as teachers.

Written examinations have been given in the subjects
studied, the test of proficiency in every case being one
of sound judgment, clear thought and accurate expression of thought.

Some disadvantages and needs of the school are prominent. difficulty peculiar to its location materially
hinders the appearance of best results. This is the
foreign-speaking and shifting population of the district.

In some rooms there are more than per cent. of children who, on entrance into the school, can neither speak
nor understand word of English. This deprives the
training class of the means to study and use large —
number of most valuable methods for enriching the school
life of English-speaking children—methods in daily use

  Report of School Committee.

in the best schools of the State. As further consequence of speaking foreign tongue, the children in the
primary grade range from four to twelve years of age or
over, and the same mixed state of mental and physical
development runs through all grades. The scholars, as
arule, are older than in corresponding grades in other
schools of the city and therefore less susceptible to the
molding influence of the first years of school life. These
facts somewhat lessen the value of the schools as suggestive models to the training class and general body of
city teachers. The latter, in visiting the school, have
aright to expect special aid in gaining knowledge of
the most accepted means of improvement in school work
and properly look to see exceptional results in school
ostensibly conducted on the soundest principles of education, and specially designed to show such results. It
is somewhat unfortunate, therefore, that we are handicapped by conditions which do not exist in all parts of
the city. While such conditions present the hardest
problems that can meet the young teacher, and so far are
excellent as means of training, they condemn the school
to present standard of results less helpful to the
majority of teachers in the city than might otherwise be
the case.

Anevilin the arrangement of the school building is
demanding attention. The means of ventilation are so
defective, or more accurately, so wholly lacking, that it
is impossible for the children to be instructed with any
good results after they have been in the rooms an hour.
This is true in spite of every effort to gain ventilation by
open doors and windows. The mental and physical

Report of School Committee.  
languor produced by vitiated air is perceptible in the
children within twenty minutes after their entrance into
the rooms. On strictly humanitarian grounds there is
need of an immediate remedy; on narrower considerations of furnishing the training class reasonable conditions of work there is equal need.

It would greatly add to the efficiency of the school if
a small hall and piano were provided for instruction in
some kindergarten methods of development, as well as
for general calisthenic and educational exercises. Inasmuch as these are part of every well regulated school
room, to lack the means for them is to send out the pupilteachers deficient in part of the training for which the
school is established.

During the year there’ have been changes in the enrollment of the school; two students dropping out of the
ranks, two receiving appointments in the city, and three
pupils entering in September. With but one instructor
in the training department it was impossible to organize
the latter into separate class. They were admitted to
such work of the first entered class as could be done
without knowledge of preceding studies and have been
thus pursuing the course. The membership now numbers twenty.

The school has the nucleus of an excellent library of
educational works, list of which is given below. By
contributions from the teachers ofthe practice schools
and the members of the training class the leading educational periodicals are accessible to all and furnish a
valuable aid in the preparation of lessons.

Respectfully submitted,
KATHERINE M. HURLBURT.

  Report of School Committee.
TRAINING SCHOOL LIBRARY.

Early Education, Curry
Lectures on Teaching, Compayre
Elements of Pedagogy, White
Habit in Education, Radestock
Essay on the Human Understanding, Locke
Education as Science, Bain
Education, Spencer
Lecture on Teaching, Fitch
Lectures on Education, Payne
Theory and Practice of Teaching, Thor
Common School Education, Curry
Pedagogy, Hewett
Educational Theories, Browning
Art of Securing and Retaining Attention, Hughes
Mistakes in Teaching, Hughes
How to Teach Manners, Dewey
School Management, Kellogg
The Art of Questioning, —. Fitch
The Art of Securing Attention, Fitch
How to Train the Memory, Quick
The Art of Teaching, Fitch
On Stimulus in School, Sidgwick
How to Keep Order, Hughes
Philosophy of Education, Rosenkranz
Philosophy of Education, Tate
Object Teaching, Gladstone
Talks on Teaching, Parker
Education, Combe
(Quincy Methods, Partridge
How to Teach Geography, Parker

Report of School Committee.  
Laura Bridgeman. ,
Emile, Rousseau
Leonard and Gertrude, Pestalozzi
Primary Methods, Hailman
The Practical Teacher, Parker
Talks on Teaching, Parker
Ear and Voice Culture, Calkins
The Earth and Man, Guyot
The Paradise of Childhood, Wiebe
Kindergarten Culture, Hailman |
Autobiography of Froebel, Kellogg
Kindergarten and Child Culture, Barnard
The Kindergarten Guide, Kraus—Boelte
Froebel’s Kindergarten Gifts, Hoffman
Rhymes and Tales. .
Songs for Little Children. ;
Songs, Games and Rhymes. .
Outlines of Psychology, Sully
Teachers’ Handbook of Psychology, Sully
Principles of Psychology, Spencer
Human Intellect, Porter
Elements of Physiological Psychology, Ladd
The Teacher’s Psychology, Welch
The Senses and Intellect, Bain
Mind and Body, Bain
Elements of Psychology, Compayre
The First Three Years of Childhood, Perez
Elementary Psychology, Putnam
The Senses and the Will, Preyer
The Development of the Intellect, Preyer
Mental Physiology, Carpenter

|
  Report of School Committee.
|
On Intelligence, Taine |
Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene, Tracy
Physiology and Hygiene, Huxley Youmans
History of Education, Painter
History of Pedagogy, Hailman
History of Pedagogy, Compayre
Education in the United States, Boone
European Schools, Klemm
Systems of Education, Gill
Educational Reformers, Quick
Young Folks’ Encyclopedia, Champlin
Jevou’s Logic. ,
Tanglewood Tales, Hawthorne

o  
Report of School Committee. Ve ts, :
)  +
  |
- Lae
ee er g
@ fe") 
“  :
es g&  @e, co fF  S) ses FI
mc z
ESB  G/B FE
sSe  py EB  FB}  —-  z
sad oe o' Sf fs  ]
od ha Fo) Eze oy  Sc  
. cog  Ble
 oe le  aus  
S  TLE  
e S
oR  o
J ag :
e  ct 
| Fob a) :
eos See or ae)
| gz  ES is In |e
f  av  UB  “oS is
p pl Fel yg EEF mmf 
er EB Re FE A
-&  seb  rl
iS    Ge &
BE, Baex Rs  seg Pa Zz,
a o£  FR qf QD
- Ss  ——N at os}  
NT BO* "pe" ||
) mm oe as  S| TZ
é a
  se ets ZS 
e +
SB os om
: “Ge }
- fe)
  #\/ /,/ 
“-om
L  |
 (?)
  
r?)  Zz 
| fi
|  wD
. sa le]
:  
| 
| 
! FF, |
|  an ao ts C
 —s  
|  £z Oa  oak  Tf
  Ss  cs os S
| zt  oe  
S ns ce
 Ss  Sz z
. ce ze /£ —
 ome of  ad
- az  mA
  fe F- onal  w- os  .
las PA on on  ow
c  
*  Fo a
z  Gz |
oa" 
eg com me
 GE maoms :
Coe FS DZ]
gan gSedae® Ee :
S lr  my |
  BE sa  BES$ ae  
o Fe SB ERex fe aan
Dey gSe Fee ij
zo zee get |,
  S| wee  FF  me |.
  On CFE C
mm  area prO  |
@—  ef gp a: |
BBE PBF  I

Report of the Secretary of the Holyoke
Teachers’ Institute.

The Superintendent of Schools, following rule
adopted by the School Committee, has organized the
teachers of the city into an association. The place of
meeting has been High School hall, and the following
list indicates the nature of the work done during the
past year.
pant. LECTURER, Torie,

Sept.  Mr. W. FE. Nichols, Geography.

Oct.  Mr. H. B. Lawrence, Languages.

Nov.  Mrs. I. H. Ferry, German Schools.
 g.

Jan  Mr. W. E. Judd, Ways of Teachers.

Feb.  (General discussion), Question box.

Mar.  Mr. J. A. Callahan, Arithmetic.

April  (General discussion), Question box.

May  Mr. H. T. Bailey, Color.

Junel Hon. J. W. Dickinson, Jamaica.

Oct.  Prof. F. Guchtmann, Music.

Nov.  “

Dec.  Miss Hurlburt, Fatalism of Habit.

A Teachers’ Institute under the direction of the State
Board of Education was held in the High School build|

Report of School Committee.  
ing, September The following programme was
carried out:

A. M,
 Principles of Teaching, Sec. J. W. Dickinson.
 Latin, Mr. F. W. Smith, Westfield Normal.
 Primary Arithmetic, Mr. G. H. Danforth, Supt.
of Schools, Westfield.
 History, Agent State Board, A. W. Edson. }
 Geometry, Miss Laura C. Harding, Westfield

Normal.

 Reading, (class exercise), Miss Nellie E. Boyd,

Chelsea.

P.M.

 Geography, Miss Elvira C. Carver, Westtield

Normal.

 Advanced Arithmetic, Mr. G. I. Aldrich, Supt.

Schools, Quincy.

 English Composition, Sec. J. W. Dickinson.

 Nature Study, Miss  E. Brassill, Supt. Science,

Quincy.

  Reading, Supt. G.I. Aldrich. »

  Drawing, Agent H. T. Bailey.

The attendance at regular meetings has been uniformly
good, and at the Institute—there were about eighty
teachers from neighboring cities and towns.

J. P. CUSHING, Secretary.

Principals of City Schools.

 
Mr. William EK. Judd, High School.
Mr. Hiram B. Lawrence, Appleton Street, GradesIto IX
Mr. Wilbur F. Nichols, Hamilton Street, GradesIto IX
Mr. Francis J. Riley, Chestuut Street, Grades Ito IX
Mr. John A. Callahan, Nonotuck Street, GradesIto IX
Miss B. O. Goldthwait, So. Chestnut Street, Grades Ito VIII
Miss Mary J. Brainard, Dwight Street, GradesIto VI
Miss Ellen S. Morgan, Sargeant Street, GradesIto IV
Miss Katherine M. Hurlburt, Training School, GradesI to  V
Miss Abbie M. Morgan, Lyman Street, GradesI to III
Mr. George H. Le Doyt, Elmwood, Grades to VIII
Miss E. M. Donoghue, W. Holyoke, (one sch’l) Grades to VIII
Miss Agnes C. Kelley, Ingleside, (one school) GradesI to VI
Miss Alice Moss, West Street, (one school) GradesI tv IX
Miss Mary E. Ford, Ewingville, Grades to III

Teachers’ Salary-Basis,  .
A

W. E. Judd, Principal of High School, 
J. P. Cushing, Vice-Principal of High School,  |
B. H. Bell, Assistant Teacher of High School,  
M.M.S Moriarty, Assistant Teacher of High

School,  
A. Brockway, Assistant Teacher of High School,  
E. A. Chapin, Assistant Teacher of High School,  
IL. W. Fay, Assistant Teacher of High School,  

B ;

H. B. Lawrence, Principal Appleton Street

Grammar School, 
W. F. Nichols, Principal Hamilton Street Grammar School,  
J. A. Callahan, Principal Nonotuck Street Grammar School,  
F. J. Riley, Principal Chestnut Street Grammar School,  
Miss B. O. Goldthwait, principal So. Chestnut

Street School,  

Miss M. J. Brainard, Principal Dwight Street
School,  TU 

  Report of School Committee.
Miss E.  S. Morgan, Principal Sargeant Street
School, *,  
Miss K. M. Hurlburt, Principal Park Street :
Training School,  
G. H. Le Doyt, Principal Elmwood School,  
Miss A. M. Morgan, Principal Lyman Street
School,  
C
Teachers of Grades I, II,  II,  V, and VI, for
first year in charge of aschool, 
Teachers of Grades I, II, III, IV, and VI, for
next four years in charge of school,  
Teachers of Grades I, LI, I, [V, and VI, after five years in charge of school,  
Teachers of Grade VII, for first five years in
charge of school,  
Teachers of Grade VII, after five years in charge
of school,  
Teachers of Grade VIII,  
Teachers of Grade IX,  
Adopted by the Board, June and July ;
amended February .
MEMORANDA OF CHANGES FROM DECEMBER,
 TO DECEMBER,  .
HIGH SCHOOL.
Miss KE. A. Chapin returned September,  after a
leave of absence of one year.
Miss C. M. Deming resigned August,  .

|
Report of School Committee. |

Miss L. W. Fay was appointed August,  .

Miss M. A. Allen resigned October,  .

Miss A. Brockway substituted in place of Miss Allen.

Miss A. Brockway was appointed regular teacher,
December,  .

APPLETON STREET SCHOOL,

Miss EK. M. Wing was transferred to the Sargeant

street school.
SOUTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.

Miss M. C. Cleveland was transferred from Grade V
to Grade VIII, October,  .

Miss E. L. Farnum was transferred from Grade IV to
Grade V, October,  .

Miss A. EK. Gaynor was transferred from Grade to
Grade IV, October,  .

Miss L. M. Tuttle was appointed pupil-teacher, October,  .

Miss B. O. Goldthwait, principal, was granted leave of
absence from November to the close of the term.

Miss KE. L. Farnum and Mrs. L. L. Bh substituted
for Miss Goldthwait.

HAMILTON STREET SCHCOL.

Miss N.'E. O’Gara on sick leave from December,  ,
to June,  .

Mrs. F. M. Sears substituted for Miss O’ Gara.

Miss L. K. Washburne resigned June .

Miss L. A. Judd substituted for Miss Washburne to
the end of the term.

|
|
|
  Report of School Committee.
Miss E. S. Smith was granted leave of absence for one
year, July,  .
Miss L. A. Judd was appointed substitute for Miss
Smith.
Miss J. Montague was transferred from Park street
school to Grade V, July,  .
PARK STREET SCHOOL.
Miss K. M. Hurlburt was appointed Principal and
Training school teacher, February,  .
Miss J. Montague was transferred to the Hamilton
street school, July,  .
SARGEANT STREET SCHOOL.
Mrs. L. A. King was granted leave of absence for one
year, August,  .
Miss BE. M. Curran substituted for Miss King.
Miss K. T. Chapin was granted leave of absence.
Miss A. A. Kane substituted for Miss Chapin.
Miss C. C. Ramage resigned, May,  .
Miss E. M. Wing was transferred from Appleton street
school to Grade I, Sargeant Street, May,  .
DWIGHT STREET SCHOOL.
Miss F.  Smith returned to school, May,  .
Miss F.  Smith was granted leave of absence, Aug.,
 .
Miss K. A. Howard substituted for Miss Smith.

Report of School Committee.  
LYMAN STREET SCHOOL.
Miss R. E. Cain, principal’s assistant, on sick leave
during the summer term.
Miss L. F. Heinritz substituted for Miss Cain.
Miss R. E. Cain resigned, June,  .
Miss M. T. O’ Donnell was promoted to the position of
principals’ assistant, September,  .
Miss M. E. Hussey was transferred from the Chestnut
street school to Miss O’ Donnell’s place.
CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.
Miss M. E. Hussey was transferred to the Lyman
street school.
Miss K. E. Shea was appointed to Grade I.
NONOTUCK STREET SCHOOL.
Miss H. A. Shine was appointed pupil-teacher December .
Miss M. C. Griffin was promoted to Grade II, Septem- :
ber,  .
Miss H. A. Shine was transferred to the Ewingville
school, December,  .
Miss L. F. Heinritz was appointed teacher of Grade I,
September,  .
ELMWOOD.
Miss L. C. Ely was appointed pupil-teacher, April,
 ,

  Report of School Committee.
EWINGVILLE.
Miss H. A. Shine was appointed regular teacher, December,  .
WEST HOLYOKE
Miss  E. Ballou resigned October,  .
Miss E. M. Donoghue was appointed October .
‘

Report of School Committee.  
[C]

LOCATION OF SCHOOLS, NAMES OF TEACHERS, ANNUAL

SALARIES, AND COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICE.

JANUARY,  .
| ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
NAMES. SALARY. OF SERVICE. NAME OF SCHOOL.

W.E. Judd,  August, High School.
J.P. Cushing, August, és “
B. H. Bell August, “s “
M. M.S. Mortarty, August, ““ “
L. W. Fay, August, ‘* “
E. A. Chapin, August, “
A. Brockway, November, “* .
J.H. Farley, November, “e
H. B. Lawrence, August, Appleton Street.
M. E. Lawley, September, “
M.O’Connell, April, us
E. T. Finch, November, Is  “s “
J. L. Somers, May, .
K. E. Kelt, June, “
S.M.Mayo,  December, “* “
H.P. Doty, August, isso “
S. M. Maxfield, Juouary, “s
E. M. Wilxon, ‘November,  
M. E. Webster, December, “* “
M. I.. Connor, April, “s “
B. O. Goldthwalt, ‘August, South Chestnut Street.
K. B. Bond, October, “
M. E. Winchell, April, “
M. C. Cleveland, October, Lse  ‘s “.
E. L. Farnuin, September, “. ““
E. M. Curran, Muy, “s 
E. H. Perry, May, Lae “. “s
M.G. Eaton, May, ‘* “. ‘““
H. E. Smith, October, “s “e
A. E. Gaynor, October, ‘t
L. M. Tuttle, October, “
W. F. Nichols, August, Hamllton Strect.
E. S. Sinith, lv. of absence, September, L&s] “e
L. A. Judd, substitute, September,  “. “
L. M. O'Neill, April, “
S. A. Clifford, August, **
C. H. Buckloy, September, .*
J. Montague, January, “
M. M. Browne, January, ** “
M.E. Keith, .- April, “
J.E.Scolley, September, ““ “
N. E. O’Gara, November, “s .*
R. P. Whitney, August, ‘*
M. A. Donoghue, April,  J. E. Healey, October, “
K. M. Hurlburt, February, Park Street.
M. A. Donoghue, (x January, “
J. R. Williston, October, ‘s
S. W. Brennan, April, “s “.
M.B. Berry, .- January, *
G. E. Spencer, May, ““ ““
L. E. Kelly, September, “
E.  Morgan, April, Sargeant Street.
C. A. King, lv. of absence, January, “* ““
E. L. Curran, substitute, August, “. “

  Report of School Committee.
| |
LG ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT Sa Mae
NAMES. SALARY. OF SERVICE. NAME OF SCHOOL,

K.T. Chapin,  September,  Sargeant Street.
K. M. Kennelly, SAM) September, Jas! ‘s
M.G. Nugent, AW) |April, Isso ‘s
K.G. Shine, OW) Aterust,  ss “
KE. M. Wing, Miy. Is] “
A. G. Collopy, January, PSN ““ ““
M. J. Brainard,  Atust, ISMG Dwight Street. |
K. A. Mahoney, “WM oT April, Iss} .. .
K.M. Holines, MM) May, ISN} “
A.M. Reardon, September, ISSG) “
EF. M. Wellington, So pA UCU, Iss) ss
S.E. Hayward, Uusust, hve ‘* .
C. G. Ramage, AW) January, ISsi “s
G. A. Bond, THM) Reptember, Iss} ‘s
FS. Smith, Iveof absence,’ WW) IA pri, ISs  .
kK. F. Toward, substitute,  M) Attrust, Ist]: ‘
K. A. O'Neil,  cn) October, TSH ws
ALM. Morawan, oO December, scl. Lvinan Street.
M.B. Hussey, October, IXSS .
M.T. OY Donnell, aw) November, IS  “
BE. F. Reilley, OW) May, Iss .. |
M.A. Healey, a) November, ISN} “s “s
F. J. Riley,  loo September, ISS] Chestnut Street.
eA. Arnold, Ow) Aust, ‘ved .* “*
B. RR. Manin, MN) Septentber, ISN} “
BE. a. Scolley.  October, I i* ‘* “
EM. Dovle, December, TNss, ‘
ki. BE. Lvons.   september, Ixss! “s ‘s
L. B. Mevrath, TW November,  “s “*
KK. E. Shea, Miay, Isso  
J. A. Callahan, {September, Issf) Nonotueck Street.
A.J. Nash, boO  August, TASH: .: ..
S.J.C. Todd, April, Issh, .* “
J. A. Reardon, January, Isvj **
LL. B. Ramage, September,  Ss ‘
KE. M.sSwind,  TMM) September, “
H. fe. Stearns,  October, Isso! “
K.A.Griflin, February, [Ss .* ‘.
M.C. Griffin, a) AUgUst, Insti “
L. F. Weinritz, October, Tso] ‘
G. H. Le Dove, tH) December,  Ehnawoed.
E. M. Bartlett, OW) Junuary,  .*
L. C. Ely, low Mav,  “s
M. BE. Ford, Aturust, ]xs  Ewingville.
Hi. A. Shine, December, Iso) “
AJP. Welly,  January, Ins Ingleside.
A. Moss, bon May,  West Street,
EK. M. Donoghue, October, Isttl! West Holyoke.
BF. ZAuchttoann, soo June, Iso! Vocal Music.
 Ferry,  September, ISS Drawing.
BE. A. Mae Donnell, Siw) September, Iss Writing, ).
F. Fyer, (HM) Novetnber, Iniw) Calisthenies,

Report of School Committee.  
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS NEEDED.
PARK STREET.

Important ventilating apparatus; more heat in the
office; extra steam pipes in north rooms; extension
iron gates at entrance of the tower vestibule; grounds
graded and seeded and good gates at the three entrances

to prevent vandalism; walls and basements should be
whitewashed the closets should be ventilated.
SARGEANT STREET.

Doors of boiler warped and should be repaired basement should be whitewashed the fire box was built
over, new grates put in, does not work well.

HAMILTON STREET.

Basement should be whitewashed new heavy doors
needed at entrance of second story stairway at this low
level, the pipes are frequently clogged, and strainer,
readily opened and cleared by the janitor, should be
placed in the basement; the grounds about the
building should be graded and seeded, or they should
be entirely covered with concrete; the beds of sand
which gather on the east side of the building
are carried up into the adjacent rooms by every
wind that blows, hindering exercises and injuring
books. The transom lifters placed in the building are
utterly useless. They are so short that they cannot be handled without step-ladder; they are placed

  Report of School Committee.
wrong side up; in short, they are so light and insecure
that the transom windows have been nailed up to prevent
their being blown in and crushed. The fixtures should
be exchanged for better ones.

DWIGHT STREET.

Grounds graded and seeded; walls and basements
should be whitewashed New floor in one part of the
attic new furniture for Miss Hayward’s room.

LYMAN STREET.

Drip- pipe of heating apparatus is too small to carry
off the condensed water; upper room whitewashed ;
paint in lower room and blinds in the upper; grounds
graded and seeded gates at entrances.

APPLETON STREET.

New ceilings; floors should be strengthened windows tightened return pipes of steam heater rusting off ;
new ventilating apparatus needed new furniture in principal’s room.

SOUTH CHESTNUT STREET.

W ood-work should be varnished to save the graining ;
window casings outside need painting; gas connections
with the buildings; grounds should be filled to shed
water (now collects in front of front door) grounds
should be seeded.

Report of School Committee. 
CHESTNUT STREET.

Wallsand basement whitewashed; fence in rear repaired storm entry on south side and new steps; all
window casings loose and admitting air and need painting basements should be sheathed to save the rising of
coal-dust into the rooms above.

HIGH SCHOOL.

A new one, newly located, wanted immediately roof
Over principal’s room still leaks; this roof should be
extended out flush with front walls of building to protect the steps beneath from accumulations of ice and
snow; the grounds should be fenced, graded, seeded,
and then securely locked against midnight or daylight
marauders.

NONOTUCK STREET.

Back gate needs new fastening, the trees new boxes ;
proper protection over front of boiler against danger
from fire when fires have to’ be drawn; radiators need
new valves, also the boiler; partition across basement to
Keep children out of store-room; the siphon in the
south closet should be enclosed secure from meddling.

  Report of School Committee.
[D]

‘ r
FIRST TERM, COMMENCING SEPTEMBER,  ,
ENDING DECEMBER,  .

| OO
' Average Average Per Cent, TardiXS AMES OF Memberahip Attendance, Attendance. nesses.
; an Schools,
TEACHERS. ei j)t FF Tis Tr Tt £
'o'lwr A: S
  SD ye FPF Se Sj;  &
|ee ee
W. OE. Juda,  OL High Sel’
J.P. Cushing, ‘
B. H. Bell, be
M.A. Allen, “
M. M.S. Moriarty, “
C. M. Deming, oe
A. Brockway, sub, “
J. Parley, *s
Hf. B. Lawrence,  BW  H,  Applet ’n st
M. BE. Lawley, ‘s
M. O'Connell,  MH BW  Ws ww  WH PTY “
Bb. M. Wing, ass't, “
ET. Fineh, ob  seo OK .*
J. LL. Somers, mw) ET Bt .*
BL. Kelt, Sb  BO, BO  ‘*
S.M. Mavo, HO DP ed {M  If) .* .
HW. P. Doty, Bo OS  OT TB! “
S.M. Masntield,  BT “.
EK. M. Wilson,  TE  s] “
M.  ... Connor, asst, .*
M. BE. Webster,  ms Ww) OF)  Os “
B.O. Goldthwait, HW bP  eR wR Ow OR OT YW So. Chest.
kK. B. Bond, “
M. BE. Curtis, WDB “
M.C. Cleveland,  KT ABW “
FE. LL. Farnina, SS  TH OB“ SC BCiéz@DZ}d
HE. E. Sinith,  BED ‘*
E. M. Curran, Os nS  o's eS OS **
E. H. Perry,ees Oe oe oe es “e
M.G. Eaton, BT BRM ok RAT BA “
A. kh. Gaynor, ass't, “
|
W. EF. Nichols, Is HR on Tamilte’n st
B.S. Sinith, "
LL.M. O'Neid,  )ooIs  TT Og RS ”
S.A. Clitford, .
M. BE. Reith, Ly  SBD BL BO “s
.  Buckley, foe MSH .
M. M. Browne, Zo  WRG TS IB) .
J. BE. Healey, Ib, ETE *
R.P. Whitney,  BMT] s
M.A. Donowhue, ce Eos So CL WS SL SO)  “*
N. BELO Gara, pa SS .
LK. Washburne, os  oS Ss SD SSS cS BS **
J.B. Seolley, Is oT)  VW lO mw OG I" ‘e
|
M.A. Donoghue ( , RB Ss ek ww Ow OTK Park st.
J. Montague, .
J. R. Williston, wm of Wy oe UR Ww Sy odd lo “
S.W. Breton, Ith S| eS SO Os Od “
M. BR. Berry, Es “.
GE. Spencer, Des Ee CO Ce UB ‘*
I. B. Wells, in| Ii  le,en) hh SKS S} ‘*

Report of School Committee.  
Average Average Per Cent. Tardi.
NAMES OF Meinl’rsivp Attendance. Attendance. NURSES,
; Schools.
TEACHERS,  DBD  FF DB ron.
» FE S&S »& bE +» TD SF TE
  eel  FD fF  FS fF A'S  S'S
ELS. Morgan, SUrceant st
kK. T. Chapin,  Td BR) NH RE  .
C. A. King,  AA ATF rari: “
K. M. Kennelly, IG Is)  RE“s
M.G. Nuvent, MT  Rs “
Cc. C. Ramage, WW Wy  MH  ss
A. G. Collopy, oT] OB] BHT “
K. G. Shine, CeCT ‘
.
M. J. Brainard,  H]  Dwirht at.
KoA. Mahoney,
K.M. Holmes, BO BOR ER eS Sol ..
ALM. Reardon, od esMm GW ww  FP  ‘*
E. M. Wellington,  oS HH “
S. E. Hay wierd, pe LS sd “
Cc. G. Ramage,  .s
(i. A. Bond,  WO BO AT  bo te
F.S.Sinith,  .
K. A. O’NGiH, ty “
I |
A.M. Morgan,  kh oO Oe Lvinan st.
R. EF. Cain, “
MT. O'Donnell, oes,  s) Ba eS “
K. F. Reiley, oH  FV Mh) QO DO “
M. A. Healey, OL OM) “
I  
F. J. Riley, io] WB BHT BChestnut st
E. A. Arnold, ry)
B.R. Mann, MIG)  TRB, TG! “s
E.G. Scolley, Fs Gs Se Ds “
BE. M. Dovle,  ti “
BE. EL Lyons, Is Wo LTB BH  “
M. EF. Hussey, BS OH Gs] FO *
LL. Bo. Meerath, sth SY oul ts
K. EF. Shea, ST  BN ONO
J. A. Callahan,  WO  Us, Nonot'ck st
A. J. Nash, J.C. Fodd.,  Te) Be HO  Bot “
J. A. Reardon,es  GD S| .
L. B. Riainage, WW IS HD .
BE. M. Swind, Eo  STS ‘
H. EE. Stearns, HOR TP ‘s
K. A. Griffin, fs oR TO ZERO TB gs ds “
M.C. Gridin,  BOB OS sw ORE -*
H. A. Shine, “
G. HW. LeDovt.  GS IT Elwood,
E. M. Bardlett, Wood SR RN AIS .*
| !
M. EB. Ford, WIS  WH oF RS  Ewingville
| ,
‘ l
A. P. Kelley, RN IW TT RR ORR RT BH BE SK Ingleside.
| '
-' oo» oe!
A. Moss, We HOD HTD TROT  West at.
S. KE. Ballou, lo To MZ West Hol.
Total, TOT) do at a
SPECIAL TEACHERS, ALL SCHOOLS.
Fo Zuchtinann, Teacher of Music. BE. A. MeDonnell, Teacher of Writing.
 HE. Ferry, Teacher of Drawing. F. Ever, Teacher ot Caliszthenics,

  Report of School Committee.
[ ]
TINE ,
SECOND TERM, COMMENCING JANUARY,  ,

ENDING MARCH,  .
| |
Average Average Per Cent. Tardi- |
XAMES OF Meinb'ship. Attendance. Attendance. hesses. |
; Schools.
TEACHERS, oe  BS BS £€]e BE Ff F
S  @
———— |
| ,
W.E. Judd,   mn  High Sent
J.P. Cushing, as
B. H. Bell, “
VM. M.S. Moriarty, ho “
M.A. Allen, tt “
BE. A. Chapin, se
C. M. Deming. “
J. Farley, “.
HW. B. Lawrence, Is  goa) gs! a) Appletn st
M. BE. Lawley, ass’t, ‘s
VM. O'Connell, wo ts) oe ats) oS “
BE. T. Finch, th edo “
J. iL. Somers, BHM BET “
BK. ok. Welt,  SE HSE BO  .
S.M. Mayo, OB   "
H. PP. Doty,  Is gel ow af “
Ss. M. Maxfield, Wo AP ke ona gk “*
K. M. Wilson, ys OS SS Cs TO
Mo oI. Connor, ass’t, “s
M. Kk. Webater, ow  gO MH, gS  “
kM. Wing, oO ‘*
B. O. Goldthwait, Wo  lo)  mya OW, laSo. Chest.
KK. B. Bond, asst, “
M. Curtis,  BY IS ods ge ooa) oog ge us
M,C. Cleveland, Mm YW  BB BT a) ae »| ss
ELL. Farniano,  OF BB Ow re) wow “
Hi. sinith, BH TR TS OS  ‘e
BE. M. Curran, le At .
EO. Perry,  Eoo BRO eT “
M.G:. Eaton,  OW  SD ONG RN OUT Of .
AE. Gaynor, its-'t, ‘se
WEF. Nichols, EY  Hamilt’n st
E.S. Smith, po ‘
IL. Moar Ned,  Is  ag yg “e
s. A. Clifford, Po  BO PE “*
M. BE. Reith, fee, Ss Cr) YO) SS LS  eB “
GC. TE. Buekley, SH  OS ORS Wg *
M. M. Browne  We Oe fcSs ss ‘
J. E, Healey,  ok og  ‘“*
R.P. Whitney. we do AP TR  ‘
M.A. Donoghue, oC Cos SoS Cs SS” ad .
NOE. O'Gara, OF ow yp ‘
LK. Washburne, IS ADO OWN *
J. EK. Scolley, Wook  oe “.
M.A. Donoghue Jig ek Sd xe {r  oi  Park st.
J. Montacue, “e
J. KR. Williston,  oH Yt Th dL ‘s
 W. Brennan,  dos oT) oS ous) aT BS “
M.  B. Berry,    Ss Os ce}  oT OS “*
G. FE. Spencer,  VW  Je Ib od sro!  WD. ‘e
L. E. Kelly, Bh OI MW wo) BOI “

Report of School Committee. oT Te.  
| Average Average PerCent. Tardi. |
NAMES OF Memb'rship Attendance, Attendance. NeSXeK, |
. Schools.
TEACHERS. tin ZB nye nile |p vile ci!
B/E FEF FEZ Elz
  B)o 
-  es  DCeeoeoeoOor O- »o E.S. Morgan, lSargeant st
K. T. Chapin,  IS! GF  BSE RE “
C. A. King, atl  MBE  “
K. M. Kennelly,  UR TS)  HO RG “
M. G. Nugent,  oR  T, e)  z
C.C. Ramage, Ig sg Oh]  OH OT} CDR "
K. G. Shine,  Is)  To  “
A. G. Collopy, Is ot  “
M,J. Brainard, )  Dwight st.
K. A. Mahoney, tof "
K. A. O'Neill, Tl ae a, “
K. M. Holines, WoT  WT  BOB  “
A. M. Reardon, Is “
E. M. Wellington,  On asl owe]  .
S.E. Hayward,  h)  “
C. G. Ramage,  x} IN)  si! sol  be “
G. A. Bond,  gO  LB ve
F.S. Smith, as) av] go RB,  “
 |
A.M. Morgan, Ioas| ae gp oh  al!  Lyman at.
R. E. Cain, an
M. O'Donnell, Is;  Mg OH  Is: .*
E. F. Reilley,  If OE OS) OT “s
M.A. Healey,  HM) TOY "
F.J. Riley,  YA MY QT vol NT, Sk]  o(Chestnut at
E. A. Arnold, “
B. R. Mann, OT] WS BT] ORR BBE  s! BO OBR “
E. G. Scolley, Ish  IT  MOT) “
E. M. Doyle, By  aa) loz} “
E. E. Lyons, M, TT Ga) MT BO BBP vs
M. E. Hussey, gel  TTS)
L. B. Megrath,  Mi oe ee) “
K. E. Shea,  a, Sl) aH  “
J. A. Callahan, ot gel ke! ony!  |Nonot’ck st
A.J. Nash, a
 S. J.C. Todd, ay aS Ww St  BE OTT oe
J.A. Reardon,  BO  asks,  BE “
L. B. Ramage, WW MW ATE ay RT, .
E. M. Swind,  AT sg ON BS “
H. EK. Stearns,eT A, rd) .
K. A. Griffin, ™), ge) IT .
M.C. Griftin,   kU OTE OB) a
H. A. Shine, ans’t, ! “
G. H. LeDost, BONAR Ww!  TE Bmwood.
E. M. Bartlett, (i Is  oud wo gt) “
M. E. Ford, BL ONT] Ewingville
A.P. Kelley, nnMo osi] sz) sil to on Ingleside.
A. Moss,  RO}  Bll  West st.
 S. E. Ballon, IS FT OM ST] OH SS ‘|  lWest Hol.
Total,  oR gra) gra] 
SPECIAL TEACHERS, ALL SCHOOLS.
F. Zuchtmann, Teacher of Musle, BE. A. McDonnell, Teacher of Writing,
I. H. Ferry, Teacher vfagDrawing, F. Eger, Teacher of Calisthenics.

  Report of School Committee.
r  rh}
THIRD TERM, COMMENCING APRIL,  ENDING JUNE,  .
- ao, 
Average Average Per Cent. TardiNAMES OF Memb’rship Attendance. Attendance., nesses.
: io.  dSehools.
TEACHERS, he )E  Rig tl eis ££ s
  
Z. sje Sjej lb  'tié
|
-c Oe Tm mn mer mem rr '
W.E. Juda, sw ney)  sa! pea! aos) og  s!  ad High Sen.
J.P. Cushing, ‘*
B. H. Bell, ‘*
M.A. Allen, .
M. M.S. Moriarty, “
C.M. Dening, “.
A.C. Brockway, sub,, ‘*
J.H. Farley, “
HW. B. Lawrence, wD xu ve  Applet’n st
M. KE. Lawley, “
M. O'Connell,  oH UU “e
BE. P. Finch, BTA *
J... Somers, Wo. “.
FE. Kelt, Fox HGS “
S. M. Mayo,  ra oh OF oS,  .
 P. Doty. dO HBT  “*
 M. Maaitield,  B. ST NT] “
IK. M. Wilson,  OT OM  ot TB] "
M.L. Connor, “*
M. E. Webster,  OF  RY iad "
B. O. Goldthwait, Ib G)  Tre Tees :Su. Chest.
K.B. Bond, asst, sol “
M.E. Curtis,  EB o-F M) yw .s
M.C. Cleveland, Ue CR LU SLL  “
BE. iL. Farniuin, bid  Cae  G(s |) LS “s
Hh. E. Sinith, RW RROD OS IS .
BE. M. Curran, RDS “
KE. H. Perry,  HE .
M.G. Raton, IY SH  YM OTT .’
A. E. Gaynor, asst, “
WF. Nichols, OBS Hamilt'n st
KE. S. Smith, “
L. M. O'Neill, IsWane ees Os ee”  O*# **
S.A. Clitford, WwW LW Is ow BY .
M. E. Keith, TE! SOT de SH BH *
C.H. Buekley, Is oH te Ss fw “
M.M. Brown,  Mools,
J, E. ileales, Wi, BST .*
R. P. Whitney, yy  OD vi Ww oy oe
M.A. Donoghue, Ip Is Oh OST .*
F. M. Sears,BT wo OY ‘IL. WK. Washburne,  AIS  ST OH TG “*
J. E. Seulley, SL  “
Kk. M. Hurlburt, Park st.
M.A. Donohue, (x Ih  "| Is ox eo loo “
J. Montague, ‘*
J. R. Williston, i)  FS ga sor kB BOE  ‘*
S.W. Brennan,  os SL SS) “*
M.B. Berry, Bs Is! ds HR RB “
G. bk. Spencer, WW Is) Bs of  G, *
lL. BE. Relly,  Bol ag ae  WW *

Report of School Committee.  
| verage Average Per Cent, Tardy.
NAMES OF Memb’rship Attendance. Attendance, NESSES,
|  Schools,
TEACHERS. fi fg’ Dt  a€/E ff ZF ws rt S
-» DB Fis  :!FT ff  FT Ss
  S&S ££ £'  FIR F&
 ke FS ie |
[ee
E.  Morgan, Surgennt st
K. T. Chapin,Vie Les YaCie eS “
Cc. A. King, woo om ow “
K. M. Kennelly,  BH AY Ho) BS “
M.G. Nugent, fa IX  BOOB “
kK. G. Shine,  Sel We  BY “
A.G.Collopy, IR “
E. M. Wing, ial  “
M..J. Brainard,  Is, Ig Wh  /Dwight st.
K. A. Mahoney, ,; “
K. M. Holmes, tl is YY) os  ‘. ;
A.M. Reardon, AG QW Bi] “
BE. M. Wellington, IW Bs)  WH HE HI] .
S.E. Hayward. Ot  
C. G. Raanage, s) GO OL BO “
(ye. A. Bond,  ROH OSS OO ve
FS. smith. BX Ba] ONY RH  “
K. A. ONeill,  oi of sm  ‘
| i
A.M. Morgan, M) Lyman st.
L. G. Heinritz, *
M.T. O’Donuell, iy Is  Is MH Oh  “
E. F. Reiley, ot) sO MRS “
M. A. Healey, ft) Se) aad BR ‘
| !
F. J. Riley,  Rw WB! OWS  IWiChestnut st
BE. A. Arnold, 
B.R. Mann, WW Hw FS  HM loo) gg Rk WwW “
E.G. Scolley,Cee eT OC  Ss ..
kK. M. Doyle, a) We Yo Ww Gu aU “
EK. E. Lyons,  Hs Se Co Oa ns S| .
M. BK. Hussey,  BRT kB) BR LT “
L. B. Megrath, ol} ol or vee Wi ‘s
Kh. FE. Shea,  SO NS OST! AS “
j {
J. A. Callahan, (WIN Bre Wl RN] gg  BH Non'tuck st
A.J. Nash, :
S.J .C. Toda, XS  OO  “.
J.A. Reardon,  le) TRS)  SHA DS .
L. B. Ramage, Is TW Se WW TD IT RR “.
E. M. Swind,  OW So Oss .*
H. E. Stearns,  TM RAW  To “.
K. A. Griflin,  YS Os BN SH ong Bo “
M.C.Griflin, Es TS Se  OT) Os SO ti ..
H. A. Shine, ase’, !
| '
Gr. H. LeDovt,  BS go Elmwood,
E. M. Bartlett, BROS) BB BT  BT OTT ”
LC. Ely, “
M. E. Ford, Is}  Mos SSS) Ewingville
|
A. P. Kelley, “| ww)  gn NY Ingleside.
A. Moss,  st  West st.
| *
S. E. Ballou, ren) |e  x! ss  Weat Hol.
Total, Lids  S) gp)  
SPECIAL TEACIIERS, ALL SCHOOLS,
F. Zuchtmann, Teacher of Music, B.A. MeDonnell, Teacher of Writing.
{.  Ferry, Teacher of Drawing, F. Eger. Teacher of Calisthenies.

  Report of School Committee.
“ake ‘sj og Roo  |
te yo qyzuey SERRLEGR SSSR SE z
ea @eueEEBeNeBeRas  
OX a! SSsSss
‘scdiecup ay SSESEESERE  |
‘sjoogos Joon TS*RSOMSFOSAAAKAK R
  -wou| “RERSESERREEROE |g
BS Sosa “ZERBEQRBSEEZOS gE
 Wee etme nna  .
| B® ‘siog| “HESSEQR BEBO? |g
— es
;  TFONMAN QO om an
ee Oe Sr
o gs “qt EASE “A a
A. ae ‘sSoq mone CS  |
  fa Slay) NN “on OOnNTT!”!”!”!”C™” “oO. |
— a
) RAOE |
; “WOM OESMOMORYODSOS |
maoty oy ESPRSRGRRRSRESe Ss
*  te  |
pied on wate mo] EEGBESRRESTSNAE |
Pas RNC Rr SHED ARNE
| won| BOSERESEESEERR™  
/hand se WoL! SSTBRSSESSSSTS !
,  ag WIN SFaFFSSSSaSaBtS SF |
QN  “wsoq! SE SES SeaReae  "ioL| RESFLRSSARSSRR ES
     |
ce  sin RASESSESERESVOHS™ |
 po} ee
mo Ae soa BRBRRESERRAET™ |g
—-S--.- ae a
Sy! AGAGERSESSESSS |
  SRERSRRSSESSO  
oS nog} SEEREERERENOT |B
TO TSO ROR SSE SRP Om: e-Ts"
is  "TWIOL HS RAS SESS TSN AS }
| sup SERBSERSSRRSESS |
| —-ee  
a -woog| SHSZERRSSERSAST |
i  oe -———- ||
| |
 |
os VP eas
' DS Bigs co |
aea& eks an
. BZ BO SEON SE Bb |
| BSS SESVMHeSeyees
| he  Sn sages us eo™  |
atSau SesZoack See |
MESH ESE SESE wSS 
; Sot agt ooOF- spe &
Ly TD he Dg THD ad ed CO ed Bd pe '

»
e
Report of School Committee.  
we oD vy ars omer) i? A)S P) "TN  
SM RSSANETASS lr GSQzSTARCASTSA a
RIOUARGY [WIOL  me eS SFR RS :
po Rte SHO MAS SHIM MAASETOANZIA a!
sOAUARY VY ino “oe OEie CAE LE |
’ t- Ay HaOUaS Sw “ho x
“AY  Uq JIUH ann |
“OPPATULM GY ot wos Rm OT a
Woody KOA |
| mene |
HOUR  Ba
“GV WAG JIRH :
| ‘ApRopsuy  
WOds BNIB Y
' ue “a  HOOUAR pion
“GV SSR JIMA  
! FOIIUIS IAAL aad roa ad
WOds, FIO OS Y
toil oa ———  +e
HOUSE  me RSctrsex  
“AV AUC JI  
' PpooMuyy  tn)  OD  eT Ss IH cS
MOLp FAD TUIAEY eye Se RP aAYrs S|  Ome Hw yy
" FIOUOS cS Za  Be eSZERAS RY
pave SARC JIU co mee ot s+ is  
, icy DS as  .
I MOY LUU TT Se SRM TF SP ERAS 
|, Woy Raa aK VY mon oN
\ es en D
| RAO z& aS ALF BR ma  ie i?
AV SSC DUH awe wae  
MONQOUON mean Nd at are |
(| Op SOO .UOREY
“wy: Doss Pe ee) Soyerti-s- -—s
ROR BZ aig SAQT' Fai x
EV BARGE JIU re onvat I
a BAKE tON Sean ww ND Bae TMHPSIS SABAH |
laa] MOD) ROO ORGY —- OM }
— ar ss.  ROU IN  ES SEF elias  
ay SNUC JRE  oe  m
UOTE RODULISGY et rg
bw ae pc SY a
RagttoR Zn Bs  F
“QYyY kA J]UH  Rooinet  
"MALNCT  Row SH "A REaR  &
UOT) BAIS YY  +
"NAILS  Poa BFSA  gts
“AVR AUCL SUH ane Sas R
“URAL os matt VEN FTSas OL, RIINUDEGY 
“wattaY SHRSENS “Sot Tez :
AV BANGLE JURE “wens
WUNDTAINS colon Mise   NSsot swAtSssz an
WOOL} RIODULING$ aM” “oottae zo GShEnn BSE SARLFRAS|  
AV SATE JIU  se eae ry
|; MOTD FPAODIUOKGEY ”
nen Joecige "— MSH Se
| Kantiag eoR HZRSES RGRSHE ASZHZ i
AV ABC JIVH “Thy AT om x
» FL ie.  oe oe we }
»  tajatdily  W“Z ESRR TMCS Bee
WOL) BADIEGC VY 
t a
,  nr a
A  be  S'S '
RG, DES -ff st on -# RB Se FZ Sh sf  .ktcat
  wey: Sy EL Pro smts
wr. em DY mM fom caSy So TN ae o@ob sEteRooe ERT ESTES FEVESE 
“  BRSe pase orem   Ef  Lor ds §
Z  Stes bueetet Ss SSSSLES SOC SatE !
  SZEET SSE SL SP LSLISz Fiza etuiz
  SSDP ss pees Bier   zi Ttleiize
(I FS RORR IT AVARS ARMS SOS OZ DATE 

@
bh e
  Report of School ,Committee.
|!
of WAL HS Ss ;
| BBE  nn
w Sn  
» waqnmag F
nN 
CO aeOe ee
 Sees
 ROTRA  RF F
N ‘
bo
  “TOL gz FS BF &F zt
(  oo
oa) |
  Ot) A, Sr cy) |Z
a  oe ie ene
a "HOLR IV  &€& F&F &
oe lena TOT Ses om OH CUS
  “RLOQOVI EB JO TOQUONYR  es 
oone—
rs mo ft Tf
+ ro to Cc  oy
 pm ey —
Zz nN fe  t
nm aay "HOPBUULD T
 wos) TT.  fel
oo ea rn
Oo t- ro  
ss bm "WOLKE al  Al ,
eeof
mw S$  Sk  ,
Mog OL |
mm  
rm  rar ‘wOLRUWDGT Dd wt tad B. ect |
Lo fx)  Ss a
’ en   ow
x aw ®@ wk f
ad  vz POL *“ x
aa  ee
SC Oo  egy uuta 
pe) Tm mp Bg al
' oy t- 
s ln  "BOLR AG  a
— eT Ss ow
m  |g WHO )
Yoer oe 
a xt  nr} be ne}  KOLWUI SF Fe NF a
Y ———    OOSS  
Sp jo.
'| ‘
, |
— ;
 |
 S
dp) TD .
'  ra .
 BF FF #
pond   |; f
Ss yi  fF FE Fle
a S$ ss 
a  EE]  
eS FE  fe
m  S$ sh |
 al  owe a
w omad ee] '

Report of School Committee.  
[J]
EVENING SCHOOLS BEGINNING OCTOBER  ,
 ENDING DECEMBER .
oo  
'  :
—  o
oz  Se Bloes
. oh ad  -OFlnwg tg &
| gs  
TEACHERS. SCHOOLS. |» baES
i ay a) |Emeer elas
a  gl )
J.J. Keane, English Departinent, Chestnut Street. gf
Katherine Griftin, “. :
Charlena Shepardson, .*  
Lila Sinclair, “s 
Emina B. Gilligan, “s  
John L. Connor,  
Carrie E. Thorpe, *' “. |
Helena A. Shine, :
Margaret A. O’Brien,  
Francis M. Broadhead, 
Jus. Menard,  French 
Mary E. Lynch, .“ .. |
Lillie Curran,  
Lizzie A. Hasxctt, |
Eva M. Doyle, “s ““  
Jennie H. Arnold, |
P. de la Neuville, “.  
Eva Gee, ‘s  
Mary Carey, |
Annie Miller, “* ’
Florence Leslie,‘ ““  
M.S. Herbert, French ‘Dwight Street.  
Dora P. Howes, .. “. “.  
Kittie M. Walker, ‘.  
Lillian M. Tuttle, ts |
Annie B. McCabe, ‘' 
Katie A. Bowler, ‘. “* |
Mamie T. Downey,‘ **  
Addie Tremblay, .“ 
Della A. Griflin, vs  ,
M. T. Kane, os  |
J.D. Goddu, French Park Street.   
Henry Goulet, ““  S
Charles Lussier, “. .*  
Maggie Walsh, ““  
Emily Naylor,  
Agnes Cadieux,  
Delia Moriarty,  
Mary Canavan, ‘* ** |
Carrie Meacham, ““ 
Winifred Farley,  
Alice Eastman,  ** us ‘. |
Emma St. Martin, ‘* ‘* “. |
Sarah Midgeley, “. |
Maud Stebbins, ‘* “.  
Katherine Dowd, ‘* “’  
M. L. Goddu,  as yy ss  
Kate E. Clark,   |
Finma B. Ingrahm. ‘s ** B. 

  Report of School Committee.
BO |
a Ss is  :
TEACHERS. SCHOOLS.  
! FR ER ESTE SS
| Qa mm &
|
ee ce eae ——
J.A.Callahan, English Dept. Haanilton Street. 
Mae C. Jones, “s .*  |
Alice S. Corner,"  !
Annie B. Connor, ‘s  |
Kate FE. Clark,  ,
Ennion B. Ingrahm,* .*  
Bessie N. Grant, U. 
Emina Brooks, vs 
Winifred Buckland,  
Nellie E. Ball, .’ 
Mayyie V. Sheehan, +s “e  
Mary L. Bowler, ..  
Marple Walsh, se  
Sarah Midgeley, ““  
KF. R. Glesmann, German se “s  TT  
Marie Golde, te,  
Total,  
|
|

e
Report of School Committee.  
wile FIV MONNISA Ste 
| BSR RSBRZSSSREGKS Sy
BEeseapeedst ncsls |
} una WoL ZZSRRPLSSTVEGoSs zs
SSUERARRAHRS SAKA |
? nal
PIS It AF ROwSaR eS Se
| RAR ISSSESTEGR |!
Maun Scaggs :
“srRiuda PHS SSAZSNFSESS  
rE ars rate
LpPUB SYoo Jo mm mas one  “
eh 
, 
RR ES ES Eac se zR!
| BGS RRSRNaR IAS |
. OUNWUIN yo onpRA ATT —s  if
| 
to
MLSE HaqT AULzUo| BPEPRUSSKHPRSSAN  S
: “OF sprdng jo “ON DFO Om Ol RR  |Z
; AMM NOMTi-n +R ys  
, ‘gs ‘ow RAR aRSN Teste a
| PHULYIS JO ON: Rese RgR Sor ran x
a b-)
. ee
‘we nN -
a trod oraned so ® |
 oot oe ae
oe Qld Ft Hes i-  ys!
fo cauer més x; Si oh
faa *RYNOCT ALBUS yo Ox ISSR Res SERA Sn) E
ee e
n   zC zz cS 
fl SERSgELesgeeaea  
; ‘sngvarnddyee mi, lx
(@) SULROPP JO aNTRA id 
!  |
mn
TN dopog jocoe Rae eg
 HLOELOGE JO TON APN GTA rere are to] }e }
) "ROAMS JOON aoa os |
— we ee
 "ROVRUIN GE JO CON ;
ec nen tine  NDSLROONNAe hl a?s
BS Bou JOroN EEVRLSXALENAIAG |g
— S,CTVTt SITU .LU
  ‘uonipuog SESSSSFESSSSSEL
I: ret CSBSo-OSSasoSctlo gs
Lo oA oll Mi doliadidadicodtod  Mital cokes tol Te |
| aor FT
eeorxzxC' 
| SIEESLETEPISFzF  |
es cRAUIPLINGE PO ONERA HPRASSRASHHO Mrs s
-) HH \é |
 
#
fr) EG@crvrovettsenctsesa i
ZS ZRZSEAS 
) REP hSs SSSCESER ;
 ‘pay jo ann b- DOH iw SAA  
‘ w
 
xX |-—--See
 mneessela
iS) "HIOTT JO AZIN SIFHSSEEZEZ EASES  
Qo VERVRSHSESSRHLASS |
| OM sory Seid bok nome d
senna y*ZRER AL eR z
oO a
{ "Sg  gig gg peg aig pg Tm
| way TELS tess tsst zt
PLELROLDELELE SSE
amaamenass sese |!
i—
oo)
-  E
  a)
z 
-— i
sv -w hod ent
| Zed S$. .et ff
| ry Seer va YY 
| SES -£  
T: W-sH 
| SEL YEE? et, Ft 
m st prt oad pom Tt  
|" PEST Leh HetTRSELTSE  lS
ir SIL eS Se afi Syste eo *
| FETEREESE  IGT OSE S|
erent tee
er ere-d  ees yas lt
| ASiaReie Stas |
Mm ety   tiy Aree mee ae Sue Deen {
e

 Report of School Committee.
Estimate of
Expenditures Expenditures
  .
Day Teachers,  
Superintendent,  
Furniture,  
Janitors,  
Evening Schools, Pay Roll,  
Truant Officers,   
County Truant School,  
Supplies,  
Books and Maps,  
Text-Book Clerk,  
Contingent,  
Total,    
Evening School Pay Roll includes pay of Draughting
School teacher, .
Contingent includes Evening School Contingent, ,
and Evening Draughting School Contingent, .

SCHOOL CALENDAR.
  |
nn Oi
: 
-| s| x/  Ss  ORS 
dalstle Bes  SF
ssi  as ésee y
—!—|--|-- rr
Jan. July,  
| se  
|  
|  
|  tae  
| Feb. al ane 
!  '
|   
| . |
  |
| Mar. Sept.  
|  s}| '] !
 ) !
   ,
  ,
April, Oct. Py
QO! ' Q] Q' !  }  
| "|  
May, l}  Now  @&   
 ),  op |
| Dec.  
June,  ji]  /]] ‘L]   ]  
| BBla egagico |
The Heavy Figures Indicate Vacations and Holidays.

Digitized by Google

Report of Superintendent of Public
Buildings and Grounds.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the City Council of
Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN:—In compliance with the ordinance requiring the Superintendent of Public Buildings and
Grounds to report annually inthe month of December,
the conditions of the buildings belonging to the city, and
the expenditures thereon, respectfully submit the following report:

| APPROPRIATIONS.
 Repairs, 
For new engine house, Elmwood, 
For new engine house, Ward  
For enlarging Nonotuck School,  
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Nonotuck Street School, 
Elmwood engine house,  
Ward Three engine house,  
Miscellaneons expenditures, 
——-—— 
$ 

  Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.
NEW BUILDINGS.

The Department of City Property has been increased
the past year by the addition of new Engine House in
the district known as Elmwood; larger and more commodious house in Ward three to take the place of the old
one that was toosmall for the increasing demand of the
fire department for better facilities for getting out in
case of an alarm, and for increased fire appliances to
meet the possible demands that may be made on them
by the large number of higher buildings that have been
erected since the old house was built. This new building think will be ample to fill all the demands that
may be made on it for number of years. The department has been further increased by the enlarging of the
Nonotuck street schoolhouse by the addition of another
story, making the building three stories in height instead of two, as originally built. The addition provides
for two school rooms about  and one large hall
about feet.

REPAIRS.

The expenditures of this department have been for the

Ordinary repairs, the principal ones being as follows:
EAST DWIGHT STREET SCHOOL.

During the year there has been an additional room
added to this building to accommodate about twenty
pupils. New stairway to attic; new urinal; new sinks
on the first and second floors. The building has been
piped for gas, and gas fixtures putin the halls, water
closets and basement. The boiler setting has been re|

Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.  
paired and each boiler provided with safety plug, as
the law requires. Water pipes have been run to the outside of the building and furnished with the necessary
shut-off and hose connections.

LYMAN STREET SCHOOL.

The grounds have been newly fenced and painted, new
sink on first floor, the waterpipe run to the outside of
building. New cleaning-out door for the smoke pipe;
the boiler setting has been repaired the roof of the
water closet has also been repaired and the cupola
painted new storm windows for the north room on the
top floor.

MT. TOM ENGINE HOUSE.

New windows in barn; new floor in stalls; the barn
has been whitewashed new set of grates for the boiler,
and the fire-box has been repaired, also door to sliding
pole.

PARK STREET SCHOOL.

Roof and ceilings repaired new smoke pipe for boiler ;
ceiling over boiler covered with sheet iron boiler setting
repaired the steam pipes removed from in front of the
fire-escape door fire-escape door repaired.

HAMILTON STREET SCHOOL.

New storm doors Extra heating surface has been
added to four of the rooms and separate main run to the
circulation in the large hall; part of the main supply in
basement has been covered with asbestos paper and hair

  Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.
felt; the boiler room has been whitewashed and the
boiler setting repaired trap door in the cupola for raising and taking down of the flag new wire cable for flagstaff the roof has been repaired and new snow-guards
to take the place of the ones carried away by the heavy
snows of last winter.
SARGEANT STREET SCHOOL.

The old water closets taken out and replaced by labrines the water closet has been ventilated the ceilings
and walls have been repaired and whitened new set of
grate bars for the boiler; the boiler setting and steam
pipes repaired the fence has been repaired and painted.

WARD THREE ENGINE HOUSE.

New floor in barn; the stalls and floors have been repaired the steam and water pipes repaired.
NORTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.

New storm porch, new door, new coal bins, new electric bell; the roof and conductors have been repaired,
and the windows in the principal’s room have been refitted the water pipes have been repaired.

EMERALD ENGINE HOUSE.

New floor in stall; the gas and water pipes have been
repaired and catch basin put in floor and connected with
the sewer.

Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.  
CITY HALL.

The lock-up and tramp room have been painted and
whitewashed, the cell locks and doors have been repaired;
new wardrobe, table and chairs for the patrolmen’s room ;
new desk and dictionary for the Clerk of Court; new
safe for the Chief of Police office; the fire-place and
grate has been repaired; the man-holes in the sewer
have been cemented and sewer repaired the settees in
the main hall repaired new locks for the tower of city
library and City Clerk’s office; new flagstaff and flag ;
the gas-pipe to tower clock has been enlarged steath
and water-pipe repaired. .

HIGH STREET ENGINE HOUSE.

New floor in barn and stalls; the barn and basement
whitewashed and painted, the floor in main building repaired; the plastering and wash bowl has also been repaired.

APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.

The building has been piped for gas and fixtures placed
in the hallways, water closets and boiler room; the roof
and gutter have been repaired and new tin roof has been
put on rear extension; fence and cupola have been
painted; the water closets and water pipes have been
repaired and new main supply run to water closets; new
book cases for the Draughting school has also been provided the ceiling has been repaired and the water
closets whitewashed new check valve on main, return
and safety plug put in boiler.

  Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.
HIGH SCHOOL. |

Partition removed making one large room where there
used to be two small ones new room builtin the attic for
drawing class the roof has been repaired and the water
closets painted and sanded.

SOUTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.

The roof and conductors have been repaired, the fence
straightened and strengthened extra steam pipes placed
in fourof the rooms; waterclosets repaired new black boards.

EWINGVILLE SCHOOL.

New fence in front and on south side, the old fence
straightened new division fence in the rear; the roof
has been repaired; new stove and sink has been furnished for the room on second floor, the wall and ceilings
have been whitened.

NONOTUCK STREET SCHOOL.

This building has been enlarged during the past year,
by the addition of one extra story making the building
three stories instead of two as originally built. In addition to the contract, the committee have furnished new
sink on top floor; new blackboard and ventilating registers; new ceilings for the four roomson second story ,
the roof and conductors have been repaired and the
building piped for gas.

Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.  
HIGHLANDS ENGINE HOUSE.

The doors and windows cased, weather strips on doors
and west windows; new floor in stalls,and water closet
ventilated water pipes repaired; new feed valve for
boiler.

NAPHTHA HOUSE.

The roof and all the wood work was destroyed by fire

and has been entirely furnished with new.
PEST HOUSE.

New set of firebrick for stove; the walls and ceiling

of the living room have been whitened.
ALMSHOUSE.

New barn has been erected; the main steam and returns have been covered with asbestos; new high pressure boiler and connections and stand pipes with hose .
connections to be used in case of fire; the water closet
pipe has been repaired, also roof and barn door.

WEST STREET SCHOOL.

New storm windows; the basement window has been
repaired.

ELMWOOD ENGINE HOUSE.

There has been erected new brick engine house in
this locality during the past year.

  Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings.
ELMWOOD SCHOOL.
New gutters and conductors.
GENERAL CONDITION.

The general condition of the buildings is fair with
the exception of Appleton, North Chestnut and Lyman
Street schools. )

The floors and ceiling of the Appleton Street School
are in rather shaky condition and need thorough overhauling and strengthening. The North Chestnut Street
building would be very much improved if all the rooms
had new floors and wainscoting and new ceiling for the
four rooms on the upper floor. The Lyman Street building should have new floors, ceiling and wainscoting.

All of the outside woodwork in all of the city’s buildings should be painted the coming year.

The floor in the large hall in the City Government
building is badly splintered and some of the windows
badly broken; the sewerage should be changed in order |
to comply with the city ordinance. The sewerage at the
Almshouse should be changed for the same cause. Owing |
to lack of sufficient appropriation the committee were —
unable to do any improvement on the grounds.

INSPECTION OF BOILERS.

I have made an examination of all the boilers in the
various buildings and find them all in good condition,
internally moreso thanexternally. think theefficiency
of some of the boilers would be increased if more atten|

Report of Superintendent of Public Buildings. 
tion was given to the cleaning out of the tubes; the
heating capacity and horse-power of boiler is largely
confined to the tubes, and the better the care the better
the results in the management of boiler for heat or
power. Great care should be used in the cleaning out
of the tubes, and as this depends largely on the kind of
scraper used and the frequency it is used, good or bad

- results follow. Boiler tubes in order to get good results
should becleaned as often as once week this, think,
insome cases has not been done, and would suggest |
that those having charge of the men who manage the
boilers would instruct them to do so in the future.

VENTILATION.

The manner in which the water closets of the various
schools are ventilated, is not satisfactory, and have
had several complaints; the present method is carried
out by cutting hole through the roof and the putting

up of about four feet of galvanized iron pipe with hood
or some other ornamental device on top; this, think,
is just better than nothing. All the water closets should
be connected with main chimney, through galvanized
iron ducts; this could be done in all of the buildings at
a moderate cost, and am sure it would give satisfaction,
and would recommend that this method be carried out
the coming year.

INSURANCE.

As the city carries no insurance upon any of its buildings, and has provided its buildings with no means of


