  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
to section Officer of definite responsibility. Each student knows
where he belongs and what is expected of him. The school has
come to order. The building has been renovated, the markings of
years have disappeared and the books placed under perfect control.
Capable teachers have been directed along lines of advanced policy
and encouraged to original procedure. line of conferences
between teachers and pupils and between teachers and parents is
in successful operation. Seven courses of study, with almost unlimited opportunity for variation and accommodation, have been
presented. The old stratification of the school into the aristocracy
who go on to college, and the plebeians who cannot, has disappeared. All courses of study lead to college, and all courses prepare for life. Class methods are giving way to unlimited opportunity fur individual advancement. The school is commanding the
respect of the educational world, as evidenced by the rapidly increasing number of visitors. For transition year in the reconstruction and development of the High School this year has been
an unqualified success.
But the opening of the new building next year will give oppor. tunity for the development toward which all the plans of this year
have been tending. The great auditorium with its opportunity for
the organization of the school, its chorus drills and lecture enjoyment; the grouping of rooms for the classics, mathematics, modern
languages, literature, history, science, art, industry, and physical
training the laboratories, libraries, lecture halls and study rooms ;
—these and more will give noble temple for the education of the
masses. Accredited and honored by the colleges, this school will
stand for all that is best in the typical school, but beyond that it
proposes to carry educational opportunity to young men and young
women of every walk in life. Under single roof will be grouped
and correlated the classical school, the English school, the scientific
school, the fine art school, the mechanics art school, the domestic
science school, the business college, and the gymnasium. As a
place for study and work the doors will be open greater number
of hours, with little demand for preparation under more unfavorable
circumstances at home. ‘The Evening High School will here have
its home. Popular courses of instruction for the masses will be proREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
vided, following the lines of policy of the New York and Manchester, England, courses. Festivals of music and exhibitions of
school work and art will here be encouraged. Special afternoon
classes for ladies will be presented as at Brookline. An educational
society for community improvement will have its favorable place for
work. ‘Through all these avenues the schools will seek the advancement, the culture, and the enjoyment of the masses. The people of
Holyoke have been generous in providing magnificent High
School the High School must be generous to the people of Holyoke.

COURSES OF STUDY AND TEXT BOOKS.
Considerable latitude had been given the various schools in
courses of study. The great objective has been the education of
the child. Instead of fitting the child to scheme in education,
the attempt is made to fit the scheme to the child. This plan does
not work equally well with all teachers, for many need the guidance
of mechanical standard with the steps very definitely marked out ;
but, on the other hand, it is the only plan that encourages original
procedure and rapid improvement. The majority of the teachers
are working well under it, and marked advance has been made in
many buildings. Considerable enrichment has been made in the
courses of study. The children are gradually being accustomed to
stronger exercises and it is hoped the average age of pupils in the
upper grades will be lessened.

In the text books there is need of very decided improvement.
A comparison of our authorized list with that of other schools cannot be made in our favor. Many of our books are lacking in
modern material, are ill-arranged and poorly adapted for the
economy of time. The Superintendent, with the co-operation of
the principals, expects to soon submit for approval revised list of
books, which books, without material expense, can gradually take

the place of obsolete ones as orders are being made.

ENGLISH.

During the past year the main energy and thought of the
schools have been directed to the improvement of the work in

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

English, comprehending the child’s oral expression and written

language, his ability to read intelligently, the development of his

literary taste and acquaintance with the best things in literature.

Much indeed has been accomplished, but much yet remains to be

done. All attempt in oral and written expression has been centred

in first being sure that the child has something to say. The dismal

failures in composition work in years gone by arose from the fact

that the child was expected to make something out of nothing, to

express himself on matters concerning which his mind was an

absolute blank. The aim now is to begin with living theme,

based on the child’s own experiences and conclusions. To this

end, the story of everyday life, of science, art, history and literature

is made the fruitful basis of original expression. That which is the

child’s own becomes to him living fountain of interest; that

which is of interest expresses itself in graphic, original language,

which under the teacher’s example, direction and presentation of

literary ideals, finds its way naturally to enrichment and power.

With this thought in view, the main stress of the year has been |
placed on the work in English expression. Both teachers and

pupils deserve much credit for the marked improvement characterizing this endeavor. ‘The Christmas Annual, published by our
school children, is perhaps the best exposition of the results of
this work.

But while the language itself has been showing healthy
improvement, our schools are weak indeed in reading books.
Nearly all of our books in supplementary reading are books of
information cram, with little presentation of great classic thoughts
and the beauties of immortal language. Considering that the rich
treasures of the world’s best literature are appealing for use in the
schools, this policy is inexcusable. We must give the children great
literary ideals. We must seek the development of better literary
taste. We must accustom them to the companionship of good

 books.

Endeavoring to concentrate all available resources on this cone
matter of enrichment of the children’s reading and literature, the
scattering requisitions of individual schools have been materially
held in check during the past year. request has been made, in

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
the coming estimates, for  for this work of improvement,
which is not all cost as it will take the place of other less effective
expenditure. Asa basis for conference with principals and teachers,
Miss Lillian W. Fay, head of the department of English in the
High School, has, at the request of the Superintendent, presented
the following
RECOMMENDED OUTLINE OF LITERARY STUDY FOR
THE LOWER GRADES.
GRADES anp II.
Story of Red Riding Hood.
Story of Jack and the Bean Stalk.
Story of Cinderella. ,
Myth of Apollo.
Myth of Phebon. (Compare story of Prodigal Son.) .
Scudder’s Folk Stories.
Scudder’s Book of Fables.
Edith Thomas’ Sunshine Land.
Stevenson’s Child’s Garden of Verse.
Mrs. Ewing’s Poems of Child Life.
GRADES anpD [I—SuPpLEMENTARY.
Ehiot’s Poetry for Children.
Hans Andersen’s Fairy Tales.
Howell’s Christmas All the Year Round.
Mrs. Ewing’s Jackanapes.
Mrs. Ewing’s Daddy Darwin’s Dovecote.
/i‘sop's Fables.
Mother Goose. (Strong Edition, Lippincott, cts.)
GRADE III.
Story of Samson.
Story of Hercules.
Story of King Midas.
Hanson’s Stories of King Arthur.
Hawthorne’s Daffy-down-dilly.

?
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Hawthorne’s Snow Image. ,
| Longfellow’s Stories from Hiawatha.
GRADES III anp IV—SuprLEMENTARY.
Eugene Field’s Little Book of Profitable Tales.
Kate Douglas Wiggin’s Story of Patsey.
Guerber’s Mythology (for simple myths to be told class).
Little Lord Fauntleroy.
GRADE IV.
Hawthorne’s Wonder Book.
Hawthorne’s Tangle Wood Tales.
Stories from the Iliad and Odyssey.
Eugene Field’s Little Book of Poems.
Whittier’s Snow-bound.
GRADE V.
Stories of the Founding of Rome.
Some of Macauley’s Lays of Ancient Rome.
Bryant’s Selections.
Bryant’s Little People of the Snow.
Bryant’s The Gentian.
Bryant's Yellow Violet.
Bryant’s Robert of Lincoln.
Kate Douglas Wiggin’s The Bird’s Christmas Carol.
GRADE V—SUPPLEMENTARY.
Aldrich’s Story of Bad Boy.
Cox’s Tales of Ancient Gre.
Swiss Family Robinson.
Robinson Crusoe.
The Pied Piper of Hamlin. (To be used with Nature Study.)
GRADE VI.
Irving’s Sketch Book.
Irving’s Six Selections (Ginn Co.)
Irving’s Rip Van Winkle.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
{rving’s Legend of Sleepy Hollow.
Irving’s Christmas.
Longfellow’s Evangeline.
Longfellow’s Selected Short Poems.
Black Beauty.
GRADE VI—SuUPPLEMENTARY.
Andrews’ Ten Boys on the Road. (Pub. by Lee Shepard.)
Warner’s Being Boy. (Houghton, Mifflin Co.)
Alcott’s Little Women.
Alcott’s Little Men.
Alcott's Jo’s Boys.
Grape VII.
Holmes’ Selected Poems. ;
Holmes’ Grandmother's Story of Bunker Hill.
Holmes’ ‘The Chambered Nautilus.
Holmes’ The Last Leaf.
Holmes’ Old Ironsides.
Whittier’s The Witch’s Daughter.
Whittier’s other longer poems. ;
Burrough’s Birds and Bees.
Thoreau’s Wild Apples, and The Succession of Forest I*ires.
Grave VIJ—SupPLEMENTARY.
Pilgrim’s Progress.
Dodge’s Hans Brinker. (Scribner’s.)
Charles Colton Coffin’s Boys of .
Charles Colton Coffin’s Boys of .
Aldrich’s Story ofa Bad Boy.
Eliot’s Six Tales from Arabian Knights.
Kingsley’s Greek Heroes.
GRADE VIII.
Mark Twain's Prince and Pauper.
Hawthorne's Legends of New England.
Hawthorne's Tales of the White Hills.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Bryant’s Lella.

Longfellow’s Tales of Wayside Inn, or

Whittier’s Tent on the Beach.

GrRabDE IX.

Webster’s Bunker Hill Oration.

Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal.

Lowell’s Commemoration Ode.

Hawthorne’s House of Seven Gables.

Poems of Revolution:

Emerson’s Concord Hymn.
 Whittier’s Lexington.
Patriotic Sphes :
Patrick Henry.
Warren’s Address.
Washington’s Farewell Address.
Lincoln’s Gettysburg Sph.

Howe’s Battle Hymn of the Republic.

 Graves VIII anp  X—SuppLeMENTARY. !

Tom Brown’s School Days.

Church’s Stories from Iliad.

Church’s Stories from Odyssey.

Church’s Stories from Herodotus.

Howard Pyle’s Robin Hood’s Merry Adventures.

Warner's My Summer in Garden.

Guerber’s Mythology.

This list is submitted for the discussion of our teachers.  
series of meetings, beginning with one to be held at the High
School at three o’clock on the afternoon of April  th, will be
arranged for this important matter. Teachers are requested to make
improvements on this list wherever possible. The conference will
be by grade sections, with the following appointment of leaders :—

Grade One. J.eader, Miss Teresa L. Coffee associates, Miss ,
Hattie Smith, Miss Mary L. Cavanaugh, Miss Mary A. Healy, Miss
Sarah H. Rogers, Principal Belle O. Goldthwaite.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

Grade Two. Leader, Miss Mary E. Ford; associates, Miss
Mary J. Linehan, Mrs. H. B. Metcalf, Miss Agnes C. Kelley,
Miss Mary P. O'Flaherty and Principal W. F. Nichols.

Grade Three. Leader, Teresa M. Reardon; associates, Miss
Dora P. Howes, Miss Elsie M. Wing, Prof. J. T. Draper and
Principal H. W. Kirmayer.

Grade Four. Leader, Mrs. Joanna R. MacMahon; associates,
Miss Ella G. Curran, Prof. M. S. Brooks, Principal Jennie E.
Scolley and Principal Mary J. Brainard.

Grade Five. leader, Miss Alice E. McCarthy; associates,
Miss Esther M. Greeley, Miss Jennie S. Wendell and Principal
F. J. Riley.

Grade Six. Leader, Miss Sara A. Clifford; associates, Miss
Emma S. Brooks, Prof. Edmund D. Scott and Principal G. H. D.
L’Amoureaux.

Grade Seven. Leader, Miss Elizabeth A. Arnold associates,
Miss Luella I. Thayer, Miss Rose M. Barton and Principal John
J. Lynch.

Grade Eight. Leader, Miss J.illa A. Judd; associates, Miss
Katherine A. Holmes, Prof. M. M. S. Moriarty and Principal
H. B. Lawrence.

Grade Nine. leader, High School Principal Charles H.
Keyes associates, Miss Mary E. Lawley, Miss Lillian W. Fay and
Principal J. R. Callahan.

These leaderships are appointed so as to have representation
from the next higher grade, the grade itself, the High School, and
the principalships. Each leader is expected to call an advisory
meeting in advance. All the teachers will co-operate in the conferences and are urgently requested to make suggestions and to
participate in the discussions. .

In addition to the work outlined above, the Superintendent
wishes the active participation of the teachers in preparation of a

list of recommended books for pupils’ general reading, for the

effective operation of which the co-operation of the public library
will be requested. Each teacher is requested to come to the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
second conference, prepared to recommend five best books and
two best papers or magazines for boys, and five best books and two
best papers or magazines for girls of the grade represented. A
general box will be in readiness for suggestion of best things for
other grades. For effective investigation as to what is being done
in other states and cities, meeting of the Principals’ Club on April
 th is requested. This work of preparation of recommended
general reading will include the High School, excepting that the
lists should be larger and by departments. The Superintendent
has prepared form of pupil’s digest which will be presented at
the proper time.

It is proposed to take up each department of study in this
same thorough manner; but this will take time, for it is best to
centre all energies on one thing at time.

MATHEMATICS.

As tool to the applications of science and the conveniences
of life, it is important that the pupils should early come to a
knowledge of the fundamental principles of mathematics. Added
to this are the benefits arising from the grasping of details, the
analysis of conditions, the concise and logical thinking and
arrival at definite conclusion that are incident to work in the
development of mathematical consciousness. For these reasons,
this department of work will be taken up in conferences with the
teachers soon after the heavy work involved in the consideration
of English is over.

Some very good arithmetical work is being done in the
schools; but the results, in general, are not proportionate to the
time spent on the study. This obtains partly from the fact that
so much of the work lacks the abundance of material and the
guidance that come from the use of good books. The branches of
study taught in schools are now so many, the blackboard space
so inadequate and the teachers’ omnipotence so limited, that the
pupils in many schools are not given one-half enough to do in
mathematics, and that half is too often of desultory character.
Next to the teacher of special mathematical aptitude and adequate

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
time, well-prepared, well-graded and well-filled book is indispensible. This is as true in the second grade as in the ninth, perhaps
more so. ‘Therefore, the growing inclination of the schools is
toward the greater use of good books. We must give the children
of the lower grades more definite and systematic work in form
that they can be trained to follow.

SCIENCK.

Marked improvement has been made in the work in science )
from the first grade through the High School. ‘The children are
being trained to observe the birth, growth and beauty of plant life ;
the coming of the birds, their characteristics and habits; the varied
forms of animal life; and the wonderful structure and phenomena
of mineral life. The fact that drawing is now based so much on
nature forms, and that language arises in the interpretation of
Natural phenomena are very helpful in this leading the children
back to the best media of all education.

The year has been particularly fortunate in the universal
interest in the science work of the High School, which, now given
Opportunity to assume its proper place, will need the doubling of
the teaching force next year, which in this department was doubled

early this year. Almost the entire year has been spent on the
accust@ming of pupils to methods of scientific thought and to the
exact, discriminating calculations and niceties in manipulation that
must precede the entering on the higher realms of science study.
That this policy is the true one is abundantly shown by the deep
interest and growing results attendant on the pupils’ work. The
high delights of science come only to those who are trained aright
from the start, and no information cram or watching the teacher’s
procedure can take the place of the student’s own original investigations.

During the year the opportunities for insight into laboratory
work, under the direction of Prof. Draper, have been descending
into the grammar schools, working on the time assigned to applied
mathematics. Suggestions have also been placed before the teachers

of other grades and much good work has followed. The schools

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

greatly need the greater freedom of the time of the head of the
science department from the burden of work at the High School, so
he may be more available for helpfulness along this great line of
work. It is hoped that the extensions of science work this year so
happily made will be carried forward into all the schools at an early
date. It is proposed to make science the subject of special conference meetings at the beginning of the next school year.

GEOGRAPHY.

Perhaps no study of the schoolroom has so expanded itself in
recent years. Formerly the pupil’s time was spent on mathematical definitions in the memorizing of names, the locating of unimportant places, the bounding of states, and other matters that are
now quite secondary. The earth is now studied as the home of
man. Its physiographic side is presented as the explanation and
prophecy of material wealth. This fundamental knowledge gives
the key to the probable resources of the future, just as much as in
the present. Cities and towns are regarded as the consequence of
Nature’s endowments; and these, in turn, are dependent on
the sun’s angle, the form of continents, distribution of reliefs, the
distribution of rainfall, and the storage of wealth in ages long antidating the coming of man. MHence, geography to be properly
studied must place under tribute all of meteorology, physiography,
geology, botany, natural history, and is closely related to the language, history, literature, politics, sciences, inventions and economies of the earth’s inhabitant, Man. It is the most comprehensive
of all of the studies of the curriculum and requires wealth of preparation not dreamed of in the school of twenty years ago. Hence,
it is more than possible that geography will gradually work its way
to higher place in grades than it is occupying in schools to-day.
It is indeed the universal seminary ground of allof the other departments of study.

HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY.

History is only of great interest and value as it brings the
student in contact with great personalities. Biography is the soul
of history. The good impulses that come from heart contact with

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
such men as Leonidas, Hannibal, Alexander, Alfred, Frederick,
Richard, Napoleon, Washington, Lincoln, Garfield and Gladstone
are worth thousand times the value of all the study of battles, the
enumeration of carnage and the doubtful successes of temporary
victory that characterized the study of history short time ago.
Along this line great improvement has been made in our schools.
History is finding its way into every grade; and, doubtless, the
pupils’ lives are all the better for it.

ART AND DRAWING.

In this department the transformation of plans is very decided.
Conventional forms are giving way more and more to natural forms.
The schools have very properly cut away from books, because in
this study there is such wealth of material before the eye of every
child. Children now are trained to see Nature face to face, and the
representations of her visible forms is the highest aim of art education. The use of color is largely employed, particularly in the
primary schools, and some conventionalization is made from natural
forms in designing things of decorative life.

In all this we are following closely the suggestions of Mr. Henry

T. Bailey, State Supervisor of Drawing. We hail with delight the
freedom of art education from the narrow confines of conventional
form. Art can never be as great as Nature, but it should be her
faithful reproducer.

MUSIC.

Music has also shown great advancement. Our pupils are
being given the best thoughts of the great masters. Under the influence of noble song, the best heart resolves of boys and girls are
being attuned, and the deep interest of faces and the harmony of
voices are well worth seeing and hearing. No particular system is
being followed the instructor is given liberty to place under tribute

the best things he can find without respect to source or print. The
teachers and pupils are responding nobly to the high ideals placed
before them, and there is every promise that Holyoke will attract
much attention by the superior music of her schools. It would be |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

well, indeed, if the supervisor could have more generous supply

of books and leaflets for carrying forward his purposes.
WRITING.

The high results following the introduction of vertical writing
are well worth examination. Every month specimens of the pupils’
work are sent to the office, which are ever delight to examine.
The improvement has been very marked from the first grade
through the ninth. The manuscript, of which such large quantities
must be looked over, is now readable, beautiful and restful to the
eye. One earnestly wishes the good day here when the same
beauty and legibility will carry itself forward into the High School.

INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION.
A good beginning has been made in Industrial Education,
although the work is yet very meagre. Our kindergartens are now
successfully inaugurated and only wait the availability of buildings
and means for extension into more general usefulness. Instruction
in sloyd is given in the Hamilton Street and Elmwood schools ;
sewing, in the Hamilton Street, the West Street, the Nonotuck, the
Elmwood, the Park Street, the Chestnut Street, the South Chestnut
and the Dwight Street buildings. This work in sloyd and sewing
is being done by the regular teachers and is accomplishing much
desired results. No doubt it will speedily extend itself throughout
all the schools.

We are still waiting for the completion of the new High School
building before beginning the work in manual training and domestic
science. Funds have been provided for the first year’s equipment ;
and, doubtless by the time another annual report is written, Holyoke
will have taken her proper place among Massachusetts cities in
meeting this demand of modern times.

PHYSICAL ‘TRAINING.

In this work twenty minutes per day should be given. The

heridity of the past, the sicknesses of the present and the unfortuREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
nate results to many from close confinement in the schoolroom
makes this subject appealing for fundamental consideration.
There can be no safe mental training without the sub-stratum of
proper physiological condition. It is very much hoped that teachers
will carefully enter into the execution of the supervisor’s plans, and
that the exercises under no circumstances of crowding from other
work, be permitted to lose their proper allotted time.

! CLASSICAL STUDIES.

During the year the instruction in Latin and Greek has been
greatly strengthened under the guidance of master thoroughly
trained to classical study. Many things in literature, history, geography and art have been brought to contribute to the interest of
this department. The classes have been large, and the number of
pupils all the teachers could properly instruct. The high delights
of classical study are very much appreciated by the students of
these courses.

FRENCH AND GERMAN.

These modern language studies have fully kept pace with
the advancement in other departments. The instructors are both
highly competent and the classes very large. ‘The methods of
instruction are conversational, both instructors having had the |
advantage of careful study abroad. It would be well if these
branches could descend for the enrichment of work in the lower
grades. There is culture influence which comes from the study
of foreign tongue, valuable training exercise in the interpretation of thought, the choice of idiom, and translation into another
language that should be the privilege of the child at that age
when language study ts the easiest. Not for commercial purposes,
but as means to the best culture in English expression, and in
looking at great thoughts from many sides, the modern languages
should be commenced earlier. Perhaps the time for this action
is not at hand, but the conviction of its great desirability is nevertheless expressed.
On the whole the progress made in nearly all the studies of the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
schools and the improvement in method of instruction have been of
character to command earnest commendation, but much yet remains
to be done. The advancement of another year will better show its
fruits.

METHODS OF INSTRUCTION.

The schools of Holyoke are characterized by the utmost
liberty given teachers in the choice of methods of instruction.
The need of uniformity in procedure is always the index of
weakness, while versability in methods and adaptability to needs
are always the evidences of originality and strength. To the
principals and teachers the Superintendent brings his main plans
and suggestions, with encouragement for utilization according to
the teacher’s judgment; but the details of execution are in no
way directed by the office. This is the fundamental policy of
the schools.

Still through lectures, literature, seminary, private conferences
and experience, the active working force is being brought face to
face with the great educational problem of the times—the need of
greater conservation of individuality and individual interests. But
the approach to this question has been by no revolution of methods,
but by bringing the teachers to think of it as scientific problem,
expecting that deep thought, observation and investigation along
this line will bring their own revelation of the immense differentiation in children and thus lead to an adaptation of methods and
means to protect and conserve the priceless elements of innate
strength too often sacrificed at the demands of mass education.
The fundamental principles of this desired consideration have been
presented, in printed form, to the teachers in little monograph
entitled ‘The Ethics of the Public Schools,” issued December  ,
 and in pamphlet, entitled ‘The Problem Stated,’’ published at the beginning of this school year. There is the evidence
of great deal of careful thought being placed on this important
subject and, in many schools, there has been the gradual breaking
away from the Procrustean methods of the formal school. This,
then, is the Superintendent’s hope, not for revolution in existing
school plans and methods, but for natural, progressive and

)

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
gradual evolution, proding from the recognition of needs,
through the adaptation of means to ends, to whatever development
may be best for the interests of the schools. This is scientific
education. How soon we may reach that happy condition when
our practices may more fully represent our intentions and purposes is purely question of time, which certainly must be
longer in large system of schools like this than in model school
all under one roof. But with the healthy beginnings of this year it
will come. The greatest embarrassment the Superintendent
experiences at the present time is from the enormous inquiry
and the visitations of educators and school officials who rush in
expecting to see representative school established in few
months of time. We are very glad tosee these interested visitors
for whatever they can get from the present beginnings in this
particular, but we must remind all that scientific treatment
of this problem requires years, and that we ask for no magazine presentation of results until fuller development has been
reached.

The purposes of the administration may be expressed in the
following statement of creed :— |

 The school is for the child and not the child for the
school.

 Inthe culture of children and of men the individual must
be the unit of consideration. To that end school practices and school
methods must unbend themselves in order that his interests may
be conserved. The school must meet him at the door of personal
needs. There must be the adaptation of exercises to make strong
wherever is weakness; this is scientific training. ‘There must be
opportunity for development along the lines of nature’s trend; this
is God’s plan. There must be the opportunity for advancement,
under intelligent direction, according to individual strength and
necessities; this is the pupil's divine right. There must be the
discovery of future for each and every child; this is the teacher's
mission.

 Every complete education must comprehend man’s relations and obligations to his fellows, but this is in perfect accord

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

with the doctrine of individualism. Church, national and community strength is ever dependent fundamentally on the perfection
of the individual. These two great principles, the sociologistic and
individualistic, are complementary parts of symmetrical whole and
must stand forever together. This obtains now in the kindergarten
and it should extend itself into every school department, including
the college and university.

 The pupil is entitled to all that is best in individuation, in
the group for presentation, and in the class by interchange. ‘This
is the application of school endeavor to the highest protection of
individual interests. It is individualism, and marks its superiority
over individuation, which is only part of the greater whole. The
individual as the unit, with opportunity for the correction of weakness, for trend and for advancement; the group as the flexible
convenience of the day; the class as the opportunity for the
presentation of broad basic principles and for the interchange and
discussion of findings ;—these three constitute the trinity of elements
which must forever determine all schoolroom policies. ‘There are
schools where this is the privilege of decrepits and defectives; but
every principle of justice demands it should be the right also of
the strong and vigorous, who never arise so high in life as when
given opportunity to specialize and to achieve along the lines of
nature’s strength.

 All safe work in this high plan of education must
originate in an intimate knowledge of the child, must prod
from recognition of self-evident nts, and reach realization through scientific adaptation of definite means to definite
ends.

 This calls for the teacher of love for the work, of broad
training, of original methods, and of intelligent devotion to child
study. No school plan can ever rise higher than the teacher. It
must operate with the teacher as director, experimentor, as discoverer and as judge; and, therefore, as the outworking of a
scientific problem must have time for its realization, which can
never be the same in all schools.

It is sometimes argued against the applications of individual

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
conservation that it would lessen the number of pupils to the teacher
and therefore increase the expenses of schools. Well, what if it
did? This has been the cry of necessity under any plan. If results
are better, the gains will compensate the costs. The people do
not object to more money for their schools, but to poor returns
for their money. But the statement that such instruction would
increase the costs is not true. An examination of Table IV
(see Report of the Committee on Attendance) will reveal the fact
that our schools do not average much over thirty pupils to the
teacher. ;

We have number of buildings where certain rooms are badly
overcrowded, while other rooms have very light attendance. ‘This
arises because it has been customary here, as in other schools of the
land, to assign pupils to rooms strictly according to grades. These
rooms of light attendance cannot, of themselves, be used to relieve
the overcrowded rooms, because the grades are not adjacent; that
is, asecond grade room cannot be used to relieve sixth or ninth
grade, or vice versa. Now, when the flexible group works its way
more and more into the schools, by which the pupils will be working in several classes with easy transfer from group to group, this
close preservation of grade classification will not be necessity nor
even desideratum. ‘There can be adjustment and equalization of

pupils all along the line from grade one to grade nine, and even
higher. The pupils can be distributed throughout the working rooms
to better advantage, and overcrowded rooms can be easily relieved,
the rooms of small attendance filled up, and the burdens of work
on teachers equalized. If this were in force at the present time, the
call for the next ten teachers would probably be unnecessary, owing:
to the greater possibility of fully utilizing the present force. An.
examination of Table IV will plainly illustrate this and may raise
argument for its immediate operation. On the other hand, it must
be remembered, our schools are not prepared for so decided a:
change an abrupt reconstruction would bring no permanent results.
We must approach such readjustment gradually, and this will take
fully five years. ‘This question can be safely left to the Superintendent, the principals and the teachers.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
NOTABLE THINGS OF THE YEAR.
While the whole year has been characterized by an even tenor
of general interest, certain special experiments have been made of
more decided character. As matter of history perhaps it would
be well that these should be recorded.

AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING PATRIOTISM.

It is always more or less difficult to bring boys and girls close
to the altar of patriotism. Patriotism seems very abstract quality,
and personal relation to it very remote. To them the Fourth of
July is time for fire crackers and sky rockets; Washington's
Birthday, day of freedom from school duty. Hoping to find
something that would more intimately relate the children to the
soul of patriotism itself, the  th day of May (Memorial Day) was
taken as the occasion for somewhat unique lesson. The pupils
were requested, through the teachers, to each write and address a
letter to some old veteran of the National Soldiers’ Home at
Chelsea. The little people entered heartily into the exercise and
opened their hearts in earnest appreciation of the noble services
these men had rendered their country. ‘These letters reached the
veterans addressed in all kinds of ways, like these: ‘Toa Brave
Soldier,’’ “To Hero,” “To the Defender of His Country,” “To
the Lover of His Flag,” “To the One who Suffered that His
‘Country Might be Saved.” Think what stir these letters, almost
a thousand strong, must have made when they reached the Soldiers’
Home on that Memorial Day. ‘These men had been accustomed
to the storm of battle and the charging of opposing forces, but no
charge ever moved them as did that unexpected phalanx on

| Memorial Day. Many hundreds of these letters were answered in
language that told of hearts deeply touched by the children’s
remembrances. communication from the commander to the
Superintendent gave history of the reception of the letters and
expressed deep appreciation of the children’s efforts. Doubtless
this little experiment carried great good to the soldiers who in
their loneliness unexpectedly found their virtues remembered but
what of the reflex good to the children? One only needed to see

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
their happy faces and much-treasured letters to know that patriotism to them shone with new light.

THE LAWRENCE ART COLLECTION.

The day and evening of June  th were memorable by being
chosen for the celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of Principal
H. B. Lawrence’s connection with the schools. Just think of the
good done by this one man in these years of time. ‘Thousands of
boys and girls, toddling in their infancy to the door of the Appleton
Street School, had there passed their schcolroom days, been taught
the lessons of rectitude and learning, and blessed by contact with
a strong, vigorous and noble personality, had gone out into life men
and women, their characters largely moulded after noble ideal,
H. B. Lawrence. In tribute to the schoolmaster, who, first of all,
has been Christian and man, three thousand people, largely the
grown-up boys and girls of other years, came back to honor this
anniversary day. On this day was unveiled noble monument—

a magnificent collection of art pictures given to the Appleton Street
School by many patrons, in honor of Principal Lawrence. ‘There
in the kindergarten among others hung Ruben’s Children, Raphael’s
Sistine Madonna, Landseer’s Shoeing Horse, Landseer’s Pointer,
Raphael’s Angel Heads, Bodenhausen’s Madonna, Millet’s Shepherd
and Sheep, Noble’s There’s Many Slip, Dean’s Safety of the
Public, Caldwell’s Affection, Landon’s Raiders Caught. In the first
grade, Landseer’s Favorites, Bonheur’s Lion at Home, Bateman’s
First Lesson, Tracy’s English Setter, Holmes’ “Which Do You
Like?” Troyon’s Return from the Farm, Dupré’s Escaped Cow,
Brun’s Portraits, Greuze’s Broken Pitcher, Millet’s Shepherdess and
Sheep, Murillo’s Holy Family and Thayer's Enthroned Virgin. In
the second grade, Mengs’ Cupid, Murillo’s Infant Jesus, Bodenhausen’s Madonna, Bodenhausen’s Listening to the Fairies,
Correggio’s Holy Night, Bonheur’s Brittany Cattle, Landseer’s
Spaniel and Pheasant, Lerolle’s Shepherdess, Jacque’s Feeding the
Chickens, Debat-Ponsan’s Motherhood, Fra Angelico’s Angel
Trumpeters, Reynolds’ Age of Innocence, Dupr’s White Cow,
Millet’s the First Step and Douglas’ No Thoroughfare. In the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

third grade, Landseer’s Pony and Spaniels, Landseer’s Dignity and
Impudence, Bonheur’s Brittany Sheep, Landseer’s King Charles's
Spaniels, Potter’s Head of Young Bull, Dupré’s Cows and Sheep,
Millet’s The Sower, Van Dyck’s Child of Charles I, Landon’s
Their Serene Highness, Murillo’s Holy Family, Grousedale’s Ruffed
Grouse Shooting. In the fourth grade, Raphael’s Portrait of Raphael,
Raphael’s Sistine Madonna, Thayer’s Brother and Sister, Landseer’s The Connoisseurs, Dupré’s Haying Time, Van Dyck’s Children of Charles I, Cleminson’s I’m Lord of all Survey, Dupré’s
Milking Time, Reynolds’ Angel Heads, Millet’s Peasant Mother
Feeding her Chickens on the Doorstep, Eldred’s Crossing the
Desert, Landseer’s Shepherd’s Bible or Colly Dogs. In grade five,
Enneking’s Venice by Moonlight, Bonheur’s Ploughing, Landseer's
A Distinguished Member of the Humane Society, Landseer’s The
Monarch of the Glen, Corot’s Man With Fishing Rod, Millet’s
The Angelus, Blachfield’s Christmas Bells, Dupré’s Cows Resting in
the Pasture, Sargent's Frieze of the Prophets, Raphael's Madonna
of the Chair, Raphael’s St. Cecilia. In the sixth grade, Bonheur's
The Horse Fair, Hovenden’s Breaking the Home Ties, Bonheur’s
Haymaking, Richter’s Building the Pyramids, Landseer’s Odin,
Troyon’s Oxen Going to Labor, Corot’s Morning Landscape,
Leaning Tower of Pisa, Turner’s Fighting Temeraire, Titian’s
Flora and Queen Louise. In the seventh grade, Reni’s Aurora,
Turner's Town and Castle of Heidelberg, Rambrandt’s Portrait of
Rambrandt, DeHaas’s: Moonlight at Sea, Troyon’s The Shepherd
Dog, Cathedral of Cologne, ‘Turner’s Approach to Venice, Joan of
Arc, Niagara, Rambrandt’s Night Watch, Corot’s Morning, Millet’s
The Gleaners, Cathedral of Litchfield and Bas-reliefs by Robbia.
In the eighth grade (Italian room), Moran’s Venice, Castle of San
Angelo and the Tiber, Becker’s Othello, Riva Schiavonia and Statue
of Emanuel, St. Marks, Court Yard of the Doge’s Palace, The
Doge’s Palace, Grand Canal and the Browning Palace, Panorama
from the Clock Tower, St. Mark’s Square, The Bridge of the Rialto,
Grand Canal and Balbi’s Palace, Cathedral of Milan, Bridge of
Sighs, Doge’s Palace and St. Mark’s Column, and Church .of St.
Maria della Salute. In the ninth grade (Greek and Roman
room), Parthenon, Frieze of the Parthenon, Appian Way, St.

|
|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Peter's (Rome), The Vintage Festival, Colosseum, Golden Age of
Gre, Temple of Theseus, Roman Forum and Casts (Busts
of Hermes and Venus de Milo and statue of Minerva). In
the assembly hall (American room), Vanderlyn’s Landing of |
Columbus, Rothermel’s Landing of the Pilgrims, Boughton’s Puritan’s Going to Church, Brown’s Sunday Morning, Turner’s The
Courtship of Miles Standish, Rothermel’s Drafting of the Declaration of Independence, Faneuil Hall, Independence Hall, Bunker
Hill Monument, Monument of Washington, Washington Crossing the Delaware, Portrait of Hamilton, Portrait of Washington,
Portrait of Franklin, Portrait of Jefferson, Portrait of Lincoln,
Clay Addressing the U. S. Senate, Irving and His Literary
Friends: at Sunnyside, Portrait of Hawthorne, Longfellow in
his library, Liberty Enlightening the World, The Capitol of
Washington, Lincoln and His Cabinet, The Three Generals,
The Three Admirals, The Battle of Gettysburg. In the office,
the portraits of all the artists represented in the collection, while
the corridors and stairways carried eighty-three pictures of varied
character. Not the least of these, by the entrance of the principal’s
room hangs the picture of Mr. Lawrence himself, the gift of his )
teachers. This collection, the finest of its kind among the grammar schools in the United States, is magnificent monument to the
faithful work of worthy educator, and as future years roll on, will
teach many lesson of soul-up-lift to the pupils of Principal
Lawrence and to the generations who come after him. Over this
memorial, great and beautiful as it is, there might well be inscribed
the words of Hippocrates: ‘This monument does not make thee
famous, Euripides, but thou makest this monument famous.”
THE TEACHERS’ INSTITUTE.
The beginning of the year was marked by teachers’ institute of unusual value. Usually institutes are of general value to
the schools of many cities. Here was one intended for the
specified needs of the Holyoke schools. The first week of the
school year was taken for this purpose. The teachers returned in
good time and the rooms were crowded to their utmost by the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
regular workers, by visiting teachers from other schools, and by
many patrons from the city. The institute was intended as a
direct means to more effective preparation for the year’s work.
The mornings were devoted to the presentation of larger plans
with all meetings held in the assembly hall; in the afternoon, the
teachers met in grade sections for crill in drawing, penmanship,
calisthenics, science, kindergarten work, and high school conferences. ‘The program included the following lectures :—
Monpbay MorNING, AUGUST  .
Superintendent P. W. Search,
(z) Outline plans for the year’s work.
( The Physiological Basis in Education. )
Principal Charles H. Keyes, The Purpose of History.
Principal R. K. Row, of the Dominion Normal School, Kingston, Ontario, Vertical Writing.
Prof. J. T. Draper, Suggestions for Science work in the lower
grades.
Afternoon, Sectional drill and instruction by Supervisors.
TuEsDAY MORNING, AUGUST  .
Superintendent Search, The Psychological Basis in Education.
Principal Keyes, History.
Miss Lillian Fay, The Teaching of English.
Dr. A. E. Winship, Editor of Journal of Education, The
Mission of the Modern School.
Afternoon, Sectional meetings of the teachers for instruction by
Supervisors.

WEDNESDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER I.
Superintendent Search, The Ethical Basis in Education.
Principal H. B. Lawrence, The Teacher’s Profession.

Henry ‘Tl. Bailey, State Supervisor of Drawing, Individuality.

Principal Keyes, Elementary History.

Afternoon, Sectional meetings for instruction by Supervisors.

Evening, lecture by Principal Charcles H. Keyes on The
Function of the High School.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
THURSDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER  .

Superintendent Search, Directions to teachers and suggestions
pertaining to the year’s work.

Principal J. A. Callahan, Some Phases of Nature Study.

Miss Esther A. MacDonnell, Supervisor, The relations existing
between Hygiene and Writing.

Prof. Frantz Eger, Calisthenics.

Afternoon, Sectional meetings for instruction by Supervisors.

FRIDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER  .

Superintendent Search, Suggestions for the year’s work.

Principal W. F. Nichols, Arithmetic.

Principal Keyes, History.

Building meetings of principals and teachers.

Afternoon, Sectional meetings for Institute by Supervisors.

’ Evening, Lecture by President G. Stanley Hall of Clark
University, on Exceptional Children.”
SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER  .

Superintendent’s reception to the Teachers and School Committee.

This institute, furnishing to teachers as it did the plans for
the year’s work, with suggestions for their execution, has been
of incalculable benefit to the schools. It is recommended that it
be repeated in subsequent years, with the first week of teacher's
time devoted to this purpose.

THE CHILDREN’S HARVEST FESTIVAL.

Once again, repeating the good work done year before, the
day before Thanksgiving was chosen for the celebration of the
children’s Harvest Festival. The autumnal study of the year led up
to this culminating event. The nature work, drawing, science, literature, and music of the fall had been largely colored by this
theme—not the dirge of the melancholy days and the wail of
Nature’s death, but autumn as the season of beauty, of plenty, of
storage for coming necessities and of the promise of the resurrection

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

unto life. On this spécial day of festivity the children read beautiful
literature and sang songs appropriate to the season, had their attention directed to the bounty of the year, the abundance of the harvest
and the necessity of remembering those in distress.

Through language lessons they expressed themselves in philanthropic thoughts which impressed their own hearts as well as the
paper. And then each child, as his accorded privilege not duty,
brought his little offering to the Thanksgiving dinner of the worthy
poor which offerings made an aggregate of meats, turkeys, chickens,
breads, cakes, pies, groceries, provisions, fruits, vegetables and
clothing, which required thirty large wagons to cart away and a
hundred persons to distribute. ‘These children were prepared for
realization of the meaning of Thanksgiving Day. The great baskets
and boxes, labeled “A Thanksgiving dinner from the school children
of Holyoke,” did great deal of good to the more than four hundred families so generously fed; but the greatest good was to the
children who were the givers, and this was the purpose of the lessons
of the Harvest Festival.

THE EVENING GRAMMAR SCHOOL.

This school may be well mentioned as one of the notable experiments of the year. The elementary evening schools, planned
primarily, as they necessarily are, for those who are compelled by
state law to attend, were not reaching the older and more advanced
persons who desired an education through the evening schools.

It was therefore thought best to open this school under better
conditions. beginning was made with fair results, in the early
part of the year, at the Lyman Street building but in October the
yearly session began in the West Street building. Young men and
women, qualified for sixth grade work and above, were admitted.
Classes were formed with teacher for every fifteen pupils, each
class occupying different room. Instruction has been given in
vertical writing, business forms, arithmetic, grammar, geography,
history, algebra, bookkeeping and mechanical drawing. Originally
planned for roo students, the school has enrolled very earnest
and improving-seeking young men and young women, many of them

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
representing responsible positions of trust in the large industrial
institutions of the city.

The membership has averaged considerable over one hundred
and the attendance has exded all the expectations of the Superintendent. The school is continuing for sixty-six nights, through
a period of six months, with requests for its longer session. Over
thirty of these students will be recommended for graduation at the
close of the year.

Originally intended as an experiment to find out what might
be best for grammar grade instruction, the school has demonstrated
very much more. Many of these pupils even at this school have
been pursuing high school studies, but the school has not been in
position this year to grant their requests for higher branches beyond
algebra and bookkeeping. These thirty graduates are now hungry
for continued work next year, and, with the good record of the
school, many others will come in for advanced work. For these
students provisions must be made. As the evening grammar school
grew naturally out of the elementary school, so now the time has
come when an evening high school must be formed. It will cost no
more to maintain such school separate than to continue high
school classes at the grammar school and the draughting school,
which really is part of high school work. Plans for such school,
with courses of study and provisions for graduation, will be presented through the Evening School Committee at the proper time.

THE CHRISTMAS ANNUAL.

The publication of the Holyoke School Children’s Christmas
Annual, the first af its kind in the world, and perhaps the best collection of Christmas stories ever published, has attracted much attention all over the land. This publication was intended purely as an
exercise in English, hoping, by introducing the children into realms
of personal creation, to lead them into keener appreciation of
literary ideals.

The exercise was sprung almost as surprise on the children
and therefore represents the spontaneous efforts of the schools in
literary authorship. The stories were written in the schoolroom,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

and almost without exception at one sitting. About five thousand
stories, in all, were written, and from these,  besides some
beautiful greetings, were selected to represent the schools’ best
effort in the production and publication of Christmas stories. The
result has been surprise and revelation. The originality of the
stories, their noble sentiment and pure English have been the
remark of the educators of many schools.

A publication of this kind could scarcely have been undertaken
if it had not been for the reliance that could be placed on Christmas interest for the sale of books. It was thought best to make
the book one of beauty and attractiveness. ‘Through the kindness
of book, magazine and art publishers hundred beautiful plates
were obtained, many by loan and some by purchase. It was also
thought best, under the advice of the committee, to permit no advertisements in the book, but to put it forth as means to the improvement of English in the schools, with any deficit incurred to be
met from the appropriation for that department of school work.
The report of its success is as follows :—

Cost AND SALES OF THE CHRISTMAS ANNUAL.
Number copies in edition,  
Number copies sold,  
Number of copies distributed among educators,
art, book and magazine publishers, the
School Committee and others,  
—-  
Received trom sales by the children, .co
Commissions paid children, five cents per
subscription, 
Losses through carelessness of teachers, etc.,  
——II 
Net receipts, $ 
Paid Griffith, Axtell Cady Co. for printing, illustrating,
etc, . 
Prods of children’s sales, 
Contributed by School Committee,  
——— 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. |
The only mistake made in the publication of the Christmas
Annual was in its limited edition. An experiment this first year
with nothing similar in the world as guide, it was thought best not
to make the risk too great, preferring rather to run the risk of a
legitimate cost to the schools than to carry the experiment tco far.
The publication was remarkably successful. The entire edition was
exhausted within twenty-four hours of publication. The advertising
posters and the hangers for the newstands, although printed, were
never displayed. Organization of hundred newsboys had to be
disbanded. There was the immediate call for fully thousand
copies by parents and children who desired them for Christmas
presents. Another thousand copies could have been exhausted in
meeting the calls from other schools, libraries and the general
market. The edition should have been copies, and this
should be the recommendation of another year.
The Christmas Annual has abundantly proven thing of beauty
and of interest to the children; but its worth has been far greater
in happy influence over the English in our schools.
As this publication represents the children’s work, it is proper
that the children should know something of how their work is
esteemed by the educators of other schools. quote from few of
the many commendations that have appeared. Wherever they are
addressed to the Superintendent it is because he is merely representation of the children in this matter.
Miss Lillian W. Fay, head of department of English in the
High School: “I cannot let the day go by without writing you my
appreciation of the Christmas stories which we have received.
They are really beautiful in every way—paper, print, illustrations
and all.”
Hon. Fred Gowing, State Superintendent of Instruction, New
Hampshire: ‘Iam delighted with the whole conception. Kindly
send me with bill one-half dozen copies. People here desire copies.”’
Superintendent O. B. Bruce, Lynn, Mass.: “I gratefully
acknowledge the receipt of your unique and beautiful Christmas
Annual of the girls and toys of the Holyoke schools. What could
appeal more strongly to the interests and imagination of youth!
The work of the pupils is excellent and merits high commendation.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
I congratulate you, and, through you, the teachers and pupils of
the Holyoke schools for this specimen of ability in English.”

Superintendent C. F. Carroll, Worcester, Mass.: ‘Your
beautiful souvenir is received. hasten to thank you and the

children for the copy which you have sent me. The whole idea is
happily conceived. predict very great usefulness for the little
book. believe it will find its way in the world.”

Superintendent William C. Bates, Fall River, Mass. (Telegram)
‘‘Hearty congratulations on the Christmas Annual. Send me
seventy-five copies. Must have them to do good work in Fall
River.”

Superintendent H. W. Whittemore, Waltham, Mass.: ‘‘It’s
fine.”

Will S. Monroe, professor of Pedagogy, Westfield Normal: ‘I
can only take the time just now to send you line and tell you how
much am pleased with the budget of Christmas stories. The idea
is novel and the execution excellent. It isa valuable contribution to
two great educational movements—child study and the study of
English in elementary and secondary schools. The matter will be
taken up in my child’s study classes later on, and shall hope to
get few copies for class use. wish you might send few copies
to some of the European educators who are interested in American
education in general and child study in particular.”

Edwin D. Mead, editor ‘’ New England Magazine”’: ‘Itis unique
and really very remarkable.”

President L. C. Seelye, Smith College: ‘A very attractive
holiday book.”

Miss Alice Shepard, Springfield Library: ‘*We should be very
glad to place copy of the Christmas Annual, containing the stories
by the pupils of the Holyoke schools, in our library. Kindly send
with bill.”

Louis M. Wilson, secretary Clark University: ‘A delightful
Christmas book. It is beautiful in every way and credit to your
schools. have entered it among the titles in my bibliography of
child study.”

William H. Burnham, professor of Pedagogy, Clark University :
“A capital idea.”

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. |

George H. Martin, supervisor Boston schools. ‘It represents
a happily conceived idea and is most interesting and instructive.”

John S. Hayes, Somerville Public Library: ‘Our superintendent of schools has showed me the wonderful book you have published of the work done in your schools. want two copies, which
I will get rebound for circulation in our library, believing our
teachers would get inspiration from them.”

Wallace E. Mason, principal High School, Leominster, Mass. :
‘sA new idea, and new ideas in these modern times are worth much.
It was an excellent conception and finely executed. Congratulations
to you and your teachers, and as well to the boys and girls who
did the work.” .

Miss Emma G. Olmstead, principal Training School, Bridgeport, Conn.: “A great idea. Congratulations on success. It is not
only very artistic, but will be of value to every teacher.”

E. C. Sanford, professor of Psychology, Clark University: ‘A
great idea.”’

Superintendent William FE. Bates, Fall River, Mass., in
answer to aletter stating orders could not be filled: wish could
have had great lot of copies of your Christmas Annual. It was
the sweetest thing have seen from schools for many aday. congratulate you again most heartily upon the success of your work and
trust that the next time you get out some good missionary pamphlet
like that, shall be fortunate enough to get at least hundred
copies.”

Superintendent H.S. Tarbell, Providence, R.I.: ‘It indicates
remarkable success in instruction ‘in English in your schools.”

Professor F. B. Dresslar, department of Pedagogy, University
of California: ‘‘Your very interesting and beautitul Christmas
Annual reached me this week. Accept my sincere thanks. have
read large number of the stories and they seem so fresh and
natural that am constrained to put high estimate on the educational value of such work to your children. Besides, believe that
a careful study of all the stories, those not printed as well as those
found in the Annual, would reveal much of child character as to
thought material and ability to use it. ‘The whole plan was happy
conception and worthily carried out.”

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Tessa L. Kelso, literary critic, New York: ‘I desire to say

how interested we are in the Christmas story book. It is new

. idea and the result has much significance educationally. We have
had several discussions over it with number of people. If you
have spare copies, would like to send you few names of persons
to whom would like to have it mailed.”

Principal C. T. Whitcomb, English High School, Somerville,
Mass.: ‘‘I am delighted with the idea of the Christmas Annual and
am surprised as well as pleased in noting the splendid results obtained. No holiday book has been welcomed more heartily by the
little ones in my home than this artistically arranged and wellwritten collection of Christmas stories, therefore desire to congratulate you upon the splendid success of this first number. In an
educational way it is welcome visitor in these days when so much
is being said and presented in the line of poor English.”’ ;

Samuel T. Black, State Superintendent of California: ‘The
Christmas stories by the boys and girls of the Holyoke schools are
a delight as well as study. wish that every teacher, parent and
child in California might have acopy. My little girl is delighted,
and so are all the children that have seen the book so kindly
sent me.”’ )

State Agent G. F. Fletcher: ‘The result is quite remarkable.”

Albert Leonard, Dean of College of Liberal Arts, Syracuse
University: ‘*I am delighted. It is happy thought to gather in
this volume the thoughts of so many bright boys and girls of the
Holyoke schools. ‘The work is surprisingly well done. Nothing
has come to me this Christmas that has given me as keen delight as
this volume. The publication will do good in other places as well
as in Holyoke.”

Superintendent W. F. Bliss, Colton, Cal.: “It is unique,
interesting and certainly will be an inspiration for better composition work, not only in Holyoke, but in many other places where
your idea may be imitated. Many of the stories are remarkable for
their intrinsic merit as literary productions.”’

Professor S. J. Kirkwood, University of Wooster: ‘It is
both original and beautiful, and is great credit to the Holyoke
schools.”’

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

Superintendent S. T. Dutton, Brookline, Mass.:  want to
tell you how much was pleased with your experiment in having
children’s stories published in attractive pamphlet. shall want
my teachers to see the same, and it may prove to be suggestion
to us for use at some future time.”

Frank G. Carpenter (the man who writes for more newspaper
readers than any other person in the world), Washington, D. C.:
“T am delighted with your Christmas book. It is wonderful
thing. Some of the stories make me think of Hans Christian
Andersen, and both Mrs. Carpenter and myself as well as our chil- |
dren are delighted with it.”

In view of this wide-spread demand for copies it is unfortunate
that the edition was not double its size. .

EDUCATION SOCIETY.

The immense amount of work which has devolved on the
Superintendent and the tardy completion of our new High School
have delayed the execution of plans prepared more than year
ago for the correlation of the community into an education society.
With the reopening of the schools the coming September it is
hoped that circumstances will be favorable to the inauguration of
this and other plans for the advancement of Holyoke’s culture
interests.

THE STORM SIGNAL.

The Superintendent is inclined to think that the ringing of
the storm signal is often much abused privilege. Our school
buildings, with few exceptions, are close tothe homes. The bells
are not always heard and sometimes many children come to school
any way. In many sections of the city the children are more
comfortable in the schools than in their homes and on the streets.
During very stormy days the attendance is little affected in parts of
the city where the poor and moderately well-to-do people live ;
while in the wealthier section many are absent. Our schools cost
$  per day, and every dismissal means that much of expended
revenues virtually thrown away. Sometimes it is very difficult to

;

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
prognosticate one hour ahead just what the weather will be. Ip
view of these statements the Superintendent is reluctant to make
any great use of the storm signal, preferring that parents should
use their privilege of keeping special cases at home on such days.
Doubtless, there are days when the storm signal should be rung,
but they are not frequent. During the year now closing the schools
were dismissed because of storms four half days.
EXECUTIVE ENVIRONMENTS.

Most deeply do appreciate the high courtesy and noble
opportunity granted by those associated with me in the administration of school affairs. The centralization of responsibility has
freed the schools from political obligations, enabled the Superintendent to husband resources, to choose capable assistants, and to
immediately act in all matters of quick necessity. The Superintendent has had the prompt, effective council of the members of the
School Committee, while they in turn have been able to immediately
trace responsibility for everything that has gone wrong in the
schools. ‘This generous policy explains the rapid growth and

development of school plans during the past year.

But there are certain environments to the wide usefulness to
which the community is entitled from the Superintendent. A
single man, no matter how strong, has enough to do in the conduct of affairs strictly educational. In these days of educational
advancement, to be student of the progress of school reform
in many cities, to keep up with the times in psychological study,
to be an educator of original work and to select teachers for
its execution, to prepare the plans for large system of schools,
to supervise the general execution by teachers, and to know
parents and pupils as he should, is enough to ask of the Superintendent of ten times the energy any one man can expend; but
when such an official’s time is diverted to the thousand and one
things which must be attended to in all the small details of
office, itis wonder that even the progress of the past year has
been possible. The Superintendent’s time should be spent partly in his
office as library and psychological laboratory, but principally in
his schools.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

Now what is the case in Holyoke? The Superintendent, by

provisions of the charter, is secretary of the Board and all its
committees. He must attend all meetings; but, more than that,
he must prepare all details for the consideration of such committees
and then execute their decisions. This is not very much perhaps
from one committee but when such work is multiplied by fifteen,
or more as the case is, the work at times is simply gigantic, as will
be shown by an examination of the many reports in this volume.
The Superintendent is also the sole purchasing agent of the schools
and, as such, must carefully consider all requisitions of principals and
teachers, study the merits of books and the kinds of supplies as
published by hundred firms, make all contracts and place alk
orders. It is true that he has the advice of authorizing committees,
but on the other hand, details are only multiplied by the number
of hands through which considerations must very properly pass.
He must supervise janitors and recommend building improvements, purchase and move furniture and personally make measurements, prepare diagrams and supervise the placing of such furniture on the floors. The Superintendent is also the bookkeeper of
the Finance Committee. He must check, audit and verify all bills ;
prepare them for the committee’s action, and keep the accounts of
the department. As the municipal head of the department he
must prepare estimates, meet with and advise all associate departments, prepare building specifications, help secure proper appropriations, and sometimes do over and over dozen times work
that should have been transacted in single day, as illustrated by
the immense demands on time for the proper preparation of laboratories at the new High School. The Superintendent must also.
attend educational gatherings in many parts of the state and
nation, prepare and deliver lectures, and render important service
in many matters pertaining to the developments of his community’s
interests.

Now the unfortunate part of this matter is, that these many things
which are secondary in education must be primarily done. The
result is the Superintendent’s time is absorbed on business details to
such an extent that he has no opportunity to be of broad service to
his schools and to his community. This has obtained during the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMIITEE.

past year in the Superintendent working from sixteen to eighteen
hours per day, with the only vacation taken in his entire administration immediately interrupted by telegraphic call for return to
attend to duties not at all educiutional. The service rendered
committees, while it has been large, has not been well done. The
time available for the selection and purchase of supplies has been
insufficient. The Superintendent has not been able to be of that
broad service to his community which is due in the management of
large community interests. He has not even been able to meet the
people socialy. As representative of his city, the Superintendent —
should make himself heard before the educational gatherings of the
land. Indeed, he owes something to the nation as well as to his
city but during the past year this has not been possible. Summoned
to appear before and advise in national councils, he has been compelled to decline. Our own State meetings have seldom had his
presence. Nine out of every ten invitations to lecture have been
declined. dozen requests for magazine articles in publications
like “The Forum,” ‘The Atlantic Monthly,” “The Educational
Journal,” and others, have grown moss-covered. Professional
obligations in answer to letters of inquiry and for advice from all
over the land have been disregarded. But, above all, the time of
the Superintendent has been so consumed by the necessities of office
detail, that he has had very little time indeed to be in his schools.
This has not been satisfactory to the Superintendent.

The Superintendent asks time for personal culture, for acquaintance with the educational world, for professional obligations, for the
preparation of plans, for original investigations, for presence in his
schools, for larger community purposes, for sociability and for rest.
There is such thing as an educator having his nose so close to
the grind of unlimited details as to become mentally near-sighted.
In order to develop the comprehensive plans to which the schools
are entitled he must get away at times from its grind. Improvement in this particular is due to the man who consecrates himself
entirely to his community’s interests; but beyond that, it is due the
schools. It is safe to say that there  no business concern in the
land which would intrust the direction of workers, the
supervision of employees, the preparation of plans and

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
specifications, and the expenditure of  plus  to as
limited an office force as is the case in the Holyoke schools.

CONCLUDING RECOMMENDATIONS.

I recommend that the teachers’ preparatory institute be absorbed the coming fallin larger Educational Congress for the formal
opening and dedication of our new High School. This should comprehend week of time and the engagement of some of the leading
educators of the country. An educational congress of this kind
would establish Holyoke before the eyes of the country as city
of great educational enterprise, would be source of pride and

: satisfaction to our community and would be fitting opening for
our new High School. It should come in the week beginning
August  th. It is greatly to be hoped that the laboratory |
finishings and equipment will be completed in time for such
presentation to and review of the country. To prepare for such
, an opening, steps should be taken immediately. ‘The Superintendent stands ready, if necessary, to raise the funds for such
necessary expenses.

I recommend the yearly presentation of Children’s Jubilee or
Festival of Music. Our High School has its great graduating occasion, but there is no opportunity for gathering together the many |
schools for matters of general interest and value. festival of this
character, representing voices, would be pleasure and delight
to our patrons, and worthy incentive to the schools. It would
need no special preparation whatever. ‘The daily work of our
schools will be worthy of such usage at any time.

I also recommend yearly exhibition of school work to he
displayed in our new High School, and beginning with the spring of
 great deal of our school work Is very meritorious; but,
in other places it is inferior. Such an exhibition would not only
honor the superior work, but it would also focus attention on such
things as need improvement. ‘The regular work of the year would
present all the material needed. Nothing would do more to equalize the merits of our work than an exhibit of this character.

I repeat my recommendation of one year ago, that the many

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

changes of pupils from classroom to classroom incident to the
work of high school, together with the enormous size of our
building, with its many stairs and half mile of corridors, will positively demand an elevator in the new High School.

In conclusion, desire to thank the honorable members of the
School Committee and my associate officers in the city government,
for pleasant relations and valuable assistance during the year; the
press, for faithful presentation of the purposes and intentions of
the department; the supervisors, principals, teachers and janitors,

 for earnest participation in the execution of plans; the community
for its helpfulness and all the girls and boys who have so well
responded to the ideals and work placed before them.

Very respectfully submitted,
| P. W. SEARCH,
Superintendent.
 

REPORT XIX.
SPECIAL REPORTS.
REPORT OF THE PRINCIPAL OF THE HIGH
SCHOOL. |

Preston W. Search, Superintendent of City Schools, Holyoke, Mass.

Dear Sir :—I beg to submit for your consideration and that of
the Appropriation Committee, brief but somewhat detailed report
of the work of the High School for the first half of the present year,
and its plans for the remainder of the year, and at the same time to
say something of the additional requirements for the coming year.

 At the opening of the fall term the Board of Public Works
renovated some of the worst parts of the Elm Street building, put
in partition walls so as to make four small rooms of the old hall on
the second floor, and two small rooms out of one of the large classrooms on the lower floor. These changes with the hiring of a
store at the corner of Elm and Dwight streets, for commercial
classroom, and Temperance Hall for the music and opening exercises of the school, enabled us to inaugurate the work of the year.

 new course of study was prepared on the basis of the
following principles: I. Itis the business of the High School to
render highest services and most valuable and practical training to
all its students—the large majority who do of go to higher institutions, as well as the important minority who @o go to college, normal
school or technical school. II. The High School to do this must
emphasize some of the relations of the great mass of pupils. It

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

must give place to business training and manual training. It must
do more and better work in English and in History. It must put
its science work in more practical form. III. It must enable the
pupil to make such approved modifications of any course as wilh
enable him to fit thoroughly for any college or any university. IV.
It must keep in mind the large individual differences of pupils in
capacity, power, working rate, taste, aptitude, proposed life work,
etc. V. It must give opportunity for any pupil to come in contact
with any of its teachers, or any subject of its curriculum, and not
confine the attention of the strongest and most skilful teachers to
the minority who are preparing for college. ;

 With the foregoing in mind, the course of study appearing
in Bulletin No. was prepared, approved by the Superintendent and
High School Committee, and adopted by the Board of Education,
The program appearing therewith was so framed as to permit the

largest range of approved choice of subjects by pupils, to call for
preparation in only two subjects per day, giving time for individual
advancement of every pupil, while preserving all that is valuable in
class instruction.

 Inauguration of the new course and schedule of study was
simplified by giving every pupil credit for all work completed under
the old course and requiring, for example, of all who had finished
three years’ work, to complete but one full year of the new course
for graduation, although this might involve giving credit for work
not to be accepted in the future.

:  To train to ready power in English, to help pupils to make
progress at such rate as individual ability warranted, and to have
means whereby pupil and teacher could at any time fairly review the
work passed over, the systematic keeping of note-book in every
subject was introduced. In this way all teachers are training regularly tocommand of the English language, and are helping to make
the pen or pencil an instrument as ready to the hand of the high
school graduate, as the hammer or saw is to the hand of the carpenter.”” To put the English language on the plane of prime importance to which it is entitled, it is prescribed in the first two
years of every course, and offered in every year. Library and
note-book methods were put in partial operation, but cannot be

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
further extended until we can have not only needed books, but
place in which to use them.

 In History, too, similar strengthening has been attempted.
History is prescribed for at least one year of every course, advised
for two years in many, and offered in every year for some. Practical library work, with sources and authorities, is under way with a
small collection of books, which has already been purchased as a
nucleus to the historical library, which should be available as soon
as we move into the new High School building.

 In Science, inadequate headquarters, lack of apparatus,
and limited teaching force, compelled us to choose between abandonment of half of the work, so long as we were obliged to remain
in the old building, or doing mere text book study. The former
course was naturally pursued. Laboratories in physics and physiography are being equipped to do high grade work. Only such
appliances, apparatus, maps, etc., have been put in as can be
handled here and moved to the new building without injury. Much
time and thought has been put upon the development of this work
by the head of the science department and myself. We have studied
the ends to be accomplished, the quarters assigned to the work in
the new building, and the most economical equipment of the same
for good work. In this work we have had the active assistance and
valuable counsel of Prof. Davis of Harvard. ‘The speedy completion
of the laboratories is imperative for the continuance of this work.

g. In the Classical Department we have undertaken to introduce library methods and illustrative materials to add to the interest
in the work. Through the industrious efforts of the teachers and
head of the department, we have accomplished much in this direction, but can not hope for best results until our supply of books,
maps, charts, photographs and slides is extended.

 In Modern Languages and Mathematics, the work has
been so heavy, the teaching force so limited, the rooms so small,

that we have been compelled to give all our attention to the best
handling of the present pressing problem and less to the development of the departments. Individual advancement of pupils has
been attended with special success when we take into account the
number in each section. Plans for equipment and improvement are

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
now under consideration with the heads of the departments, so that
we shall be ready to report upon them soon.

 The Drawing has been put upon new basis through
giving the same proportional credit in this branch as in any other,
and giving commensurate time to the work. Improved results of a
high character are already apparent; but the time has come when
the High School needs the full time and strength of an art teacher.
It can no more take the remnant of attention and strength from the
supervisor, than can the supervision be adequately done with the
time and energy remaining, after the art work of the High School
has been done.

 In the Commercial Course, we organized classes in
bookkeeping, stenography and typewriting. The classes were accommodated in the store above referred to, and limited number of
Remington and Smith Premier typewriters were purchased for use
of these classes. The equipment will have to be materially extended before the beginning of another year.

 Prior to the opening of the schools in September of  ,
no provision was made for any record of the work of the High
School. form of book was carefully prepared for the purpose
and manufactured by the Holyoke Blank Book Co. The task of
arranging for comprehensive and compact history of each pupil’s
High School effort and entering the facts of at least three years, in
order to bring the book up to date, has been large one. Half of
it has been done, and we hope to have the work completed before
the end of the present term. Once this is done, the entire
record of any pupil for the whole time of his membership in the
High School will be accessible on single page of the record
ledger.

 The school has no record of its graduates, but have secured lists of the members of all graduating classes. These with
some detached and fragmentary records, and the rich recollections
and personal knowledge of two of the teachers who have been long
time in the High School service, will enable us to make up Graduate Record, in which we can keep such minutes of the subsequent
careers of the alumni of the school as will aid in determining the
value of its instruction. hope soon to prepare forms for this work,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
‘sO that when we go into the new building it may be with full but
‘Simple set of records opened.

 beg also to suggest that new requisition books and forms
be provided so that no educational or other supplies may be ordered
without the approval of the principal. This will not only insure

- More certain economy, but will also prevent the disproportionate
‘distribution of the supplies. trust that the new forms may also
provide for report back to the principal as soon as the order has |
been placed, that its prompt delivery may be looked after. We
have been much hampered through the fall by meagre supplies,
and great delay in securing even the limited amount we have
received.

 Reports of the work and conduct of all students were sent
to the homes twice during the fall term, and will be sent every six
weeks or oftener during the year. submit herewith copy of the
form used. The facts for this report are collected by section officers
from the various teachers. Each teacher makes record once each
week of the character and quality of work done by each pupil, basing
the estimate on written review, oral examination, daily recitation,
note-book or other evidence of equal value. The form devised for
this record is one that shows the parent or pupil in very graphic
way, the improvement or lack of improvement in each study. The
returns from the homes have been very helpful to all the High
School faculty. Each section officer, to whom the special charge of
from twenty to forty pupils (varing on account of size of room) is
assigned, is fast coming to appreciate how important home cooperation is.

 Every teacher keeps at least one afternoon of each week
for conference with parents and pupils. Students who are finding
special difficulties in their work, others whoare pushing ahead more
rapidly than the mass of their classmates, and all needing special
help can be taken care of at such times. Parents, too, are invited
to take advantage of these afternoons for conferences concerning
the work, health or progress of their children.

 number of the boys and girls of the two upper classes
have organized literary society for drill in reading, speaking, debate
and paliamentary practice, which meets every Tuesday night. In the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
reading they are having special instruction by Mr. Brooks, and the
principal regularly conducts the class in parliamentary practice. ;

 The music of the High School has consisted of daily
chorus practice for thirty minutes of high grade. Our experience
clearly shows the wisdom of undertaking more and more classic music.
The boys and girls, after four months’ drill, are able to acquit themselves with difficult choruses in manner that would do credit toa
musical organization of much more maturity and much longer
standing.

 In carrying out the work outlined above, the principal has
had theassistance of fifteen regular teachers, all of whom have carried
heavy assignments of work, as will be seen from examination of the
program which is herewith submitted (see Bulletin No.  ). The figures under each class title indicate the number of pupils it contains.
It will thereby appear that in thirty-three classes, or about one-third
of the whole number of classes appearing upon the program, we are
compelled to run over the number prescribed by the rules of this
board as the limit for class. This has been made necessary
simply because we had neither room nor teaching force for further
service. Of the pupils now on our rolls, take work in classics,
  work in modern languages, work in English, work
in mathematics, work in natural science, work in history,
  work in commercial lines. In natural science, history, modern
languages and commercial lines, we have been compelled to deny
many applicants admission to the classes for the present year.

 Assuming that the class to enter in June is no larger than
that of last year, viz., members, there will be full time work,
with sections larger than twenty-five each, for Aree teachers in
English, aree in Mathematics, ‘Avee in Latin, “Aree in Modern
Languages, iree in Natural Science, /xo in History, one in Greek,
one in Commercial Department, ove in Manual Training for boys,
one in Manual Training for girls, ome in Art. This leaves the
physical culture for both boys and girls, as well as the music, out of
account. It programs full work for every member of the force.

 assume that the director of music can still continue to
give us all the needed attention in this subject, and that the
director of physical culture may be able to give our boys at least

|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
half of his time. feel that for this work with the girls, we ought
to have woman who is not only mistress of the subject of physical
culture, but thoroughly grounded in physiology and hygiene as well ;
some one who will help us realize our hope that added strength and
health as well as increased intelligence may be part of the result
of each year’s work.

 Much time and thought has been given to careful study
of the arrangement of the new building, consideration of the most
desirable and economic furnishing, as well as to the best distribution
of students and teachers. At the proper time shall be glad to
submit for your consideration outlines and plans for furnishing the
commercial, art, manual training and science departments. These
are practically complete, others will be ready soon, and trust that
all may be ordered at an early date to prevent adding an hour to
the already needless delay in getting to work in the new house.

Very respectfully,
CHARLES H. KEYES, 
Principal.
REPORT OF THE SUPERVISOR OF MUSIC.
To the Superintendent and Members of the School Board.

GENTLEMEN :-—I herewith submit my report on music for the
year ending November with some suggestions for the come
ing year of  ;

The results of the work during the few months of my first
year’s work have thus far been gratifying in every particular. One
of the strongest and most noticeable features of the music has been
the great amount of increased interest shown by both teacher and
pupils in all grades, which means more and better work on the part
of all. There is no study that requires closer and more concerted
attention on the part of the teacher, than does the study of music;
and, at this point, wish to heartily thank all the teachers for the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
painstaking and manifested interest they have taken in this the
greatest of all arts.

The past term has been one of considerable change, both in
the “course of study” and in the requirements of both teacher and
scholar. Every class is alotted so much time per day; and that
time is given, unless excused for special reason. The schools are
equipped with the “Educational Music Course” from the Ninth
grade down to the Sixth, inclusive and in grades One and Two the
First Book of the Cicilian Series,’’ leaving grades Three and Four
and Five to be supplied.

It is my aim, as far as possible, to place before the classes
music that they can understand and render, and, at the same time,
music that is of high standard. The mind of the child can certainly be taught to love and appreciate the good in music, the same
as in all other studies; and the future standard of music in our
country depends as much on the grade of music taught, as does the
future of our country upon the way our young men shall be taught
to think. The best is none too good for the child, for in music is
combined the highest thoughts of mankind, and pleasure that is
both refreshing and refining.

Much care and time is devoted to the tone production of our
boys and girls, which is one (and perhaps might say the most)
essential feature in the teaching of music in the public schools.

Our High School meets for chorus drill every morning for
twenty minutes, and, during that time, the study on selections from
our greatest masters is taken up. At present we are working on
selections from Mozart, Mendelssohn, Costa, Brahms, Schubert,
Gounod and others, with selections like ‘‘ The Gloria,” Triumphal
March,” ‘* Lovely Heaven,” ‘‘ Nazareth,”’ and others of like standard. After February  th we shall begin work on the oratorio of
“ Emanuel—God with Us,” by Trowbridge which will be given the
latter part of the year, rendering it complete by pupils of our High
School.

For the coming year would recommend the purchase of a
piano for the West Street School, and that provision be made for
instruments in some of the upper grades, and as far as possible in

: the First grades. also further recommend that each building be

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
furnished metronome, for the purpose of aiding the teachers to a
more perfect idea of time, in both exercise and song work, matter
that is of vital impotance to thorough rendering of music in any
form. Also, that teachers should be provided with chromatic
pitch pipes, to enable them to give correct pitch in all their work,
which very few teachers are capable of doing. And, lastly, that
the Board grant me the privilege of giving three concerts, two with
my High School, and one with twelve hundred pupils taken from
the lower grades, the prods of which shall go towards the purchasing of fine Musical Library for the new High School
music rooms, where every pupil can have access to learn about
all the works and lives of our great masters. This library will beequipped with all our best music reading matter, which should comprise all our great oratorios, symphonies, cantatas, operas, sonatas,
concertos; the lives of the great masters and all their letters; and
a full gallery of all the portraits of our old masters. Nothing more
could be done to interest and educate our boys and girls in this
great art than this one thing, which would do honor both to the
schools and to the city of Holyoke. These concerts are not to disturb or depart from the regular study of music in our schools, but
would tend to help it. The aim is simply to place before the public
the work that is being done every day, which will help to broaden
and swell the interest of the pupil to better and higher appreciation of this most divine art.

I wish to express to the teachers, Superintendent and to the
Honorable Board who have helped me in so many ways, my sincere
thanks; and hope that our mutual work in the future may be as
pleasant as it has been during my first term’s work in your beautiful city.

Asking your kind consideration to these few suggestions, I
respectfully submit this report.
C. S. CORNELL,
Supervisor of Music.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
REPORT OF SUPERVISOR OF DRAWING.
Mr. P. W. Search, Superintendent of Schools,

DEAR SiR :—Several important changes were made in the
department of drawing at the opening of the present school year.
It had been evident for some time that many important branches
of art education must be neglected, unless more time could be
devoted to the subject.

Art education in the public schools demands and receives
more and more attention as its possibilities and results are better
understood. Its introduction into the schools was regarded, at
first, by many as doubtful experiment, but time has demonstrated
that no study is richer in results that tend toward broad and general
culture. Although it was regarded in the beginning merely from a
a utilitarian point of view, the advantages and pleasure to be derived
from study of its more esthetic phases have gradually gained
appreciation and recognition until at the present time not only
free-hand pictorial and mechanical drawing receive attention, but,
in the more progressive schools, cofor, design, architecture, famous
pictures and statuary, with more or less of the history of art and
artists, are all included in art education.

So many and varied are the topics comprised in this subject,
that more time than had been allowed for their consideration
seemed absolutely necessary. ‘The assignment, therefore, at the
beginning of the present school year of an additional hour each
week to this department was gladly received and has made it
possible to do more thorough work than ever before, and to add
several interesting features to the course.

Some water color work had been done in Grades VIII and IX
for several years, but at the beginning of the fall term it was made
a partof the regular course for all grades above the second. This
was no small undertaking, for materials and methods were new to
the pupils and to many of the teachers; but the interest and
earnest efforts of the pupils, together with the hearty co-operation
of the teachers, have resulted in better work than could have been
expected in so short time, and good foundation has been laid

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
for future work in this line. pencil drawing is, at best, but a
poor representation of nature’s beautifully colored. forms as seen in
flowers and the like, while the designs made by the pupils for
fabrics and other articles if left uncolored give little idea of their
appearance when applied to actual use; the introduction of water
colors into the schools, therefore, provides new medium, and that
of the most interesting and fascinating kind, for more accurate
and truthful expression of ideas and thoughts than could be secured
in any other way.

Another important change was made at the beginning of the
year by discontinuing the use of drawing books. It was thought
best to adopt the course recommended by the State Board of
Education. ‘The drawings at present are made on separate sheets
which are preserved in portfolios; this may seem an unimportant
matter, but by the use of separate sheets greater freedom is secured,
with the possibility of better adaptation to local conditions, so that
the character of the work is materially affected for the better.

Besides this, provision has been made for the study of some
of the masterpieces of painting and statuary, so that altogether the
art course in the primary and grammar schools has been, during
the present year, considerably modified, extended and enriched.

Drawing in the High School also occupies more prominent
place than ever before. It is now regarded as one of the regular
studies, and proficiency in this department is considered equivalent
to corresponding merit in any other study.

A special course in art has been planned which will provide
opportunities for study along several different lines. The work at
present is hampered by serious inconviences, and it is impossible
to carry out all the plans that have been formed; but with the
improved facilities that will be afforded by the new High School
building, and the additional time now devoted to the subject, the
High School art department should rank second to none.

In order that it may exert the greatest possible influence and
attain the highest degree of efficiency, it is not only desirable, but
absolutely necessary that the new building should be equipped with
a good collection of casts, pictures, and art objects. Such collection is record of what has already been accomplished in art, and

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

only by the study of good examples can advantage be taken of the
achievements of the past. Then, too, the familiarity that comes.
only from constant contact with beautiful pictures and statuary, is a
potent factor in the development of love and appreciation of the
best in nature and art.

In view of these facts, would strongly urge that special.
effort be made to supply our new High School building with collection of art objects of permanent value. This collection would
benefit not only the High School, but all the other schools in the
city, because many attractive and valuable objects could be gathered.
there and arranged in cabinets which could not be exhibited in any
ordinary schoolroom, but which by special arrangement the pupils
from other schools might be allowed to visit, and in this way much
larger number would enjoy the advantages of the collection. Many
Holyoke homes are adorned with choice pictures and artistic
objects, but while some cities are favored with museums and picture
galleries, Holyoke has no public place where art treasures can be
exhibited. Could more fitting place be chosen to receive such
treasures than our beautiful new High School building?

A collection of books also at the High School, relating to art
matters, would be great addition to our resources for arousing and
maintaining an interest in these subjects.

Text books and books of reference are supplied for other
studies they are no less necessary in the art department. Without
books concerning the history of art and architecture, historic ornament, the principles of design, the history of the masters of painting and subjects akin to these, much that should be included ina
broad and thorough art training must be neglected. It seems highly
desirable, then, that at least beginning should be made in the
formation of an art library. If even few books can be purchased
each year, in time valuable collection may be secured.

The subject of schoolroom decoration has received much
attention in the city during the past year. The Appleton Street
School in particular is to be congratulated upon the splendid collection of casts and pictures which now ornament its walls. The
untiring efforts of its principal, together with the generosity of
its friends, have resulted in collection of which the whole city

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
may justly feel proud, and of which, as grammar school building,
it may truly be said it is rivalled by few and excelled by none in
the country.

Several valuable pictures have also been placed in the Hamil- ton Street School, while plans have already been formed for the
decoration of other school buildings, which if successfully carried
out will add greatly to their value and attractiveness.

It is with great pleasure that note this general advance all
along the line in the art department. The subject has not been an
easy one to deal with; its comparatively recent introduction into
the public schools and the consequent uncertainty in regard to the
best methods to be employed, and even of the subject matter to be
taught, have rendered it exdingly difficult at times to decide

upon the best course to follow; but the steady improvement of the
pupils from year to year, and the ever increasing interest in this and
kindred subjects, are very encouraging indications, while the
advance already made promises much for the time to come. Our
work is carried on under more favorable conditions than ever before,
and with the cordial support of my co-laborers, which has never
been lacking, we may hope for even better results in the future
than have ever been secured in the past.
Very truly yours,
ISABELLE H. FERRY,
Supervisor of Drawing.
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PENMANSHIP.
Mr. P. W. Search, Superintendent of Schools.
Dear Sir :—A beautiful thought, harmoniously expressed but
. written in script unworthy of it, loses half its charm; whereas a
good thought, well expressed and artistically written, makes a
perfect whole, which not only elevates the mind, but also delights
the eye.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

The study of penmanship, then, is an elevating one; bringing
us as it does in contact with the beautiful. Above all it is useful
one; being the basis, as it is, for the life-work of many and absolutely necessary for all. In treating the subject this year, we have
given attention not only to the technical part of this branch, but
have been most careful as to the hygienic part. It has been our
aim to have all written board work of the teacher of so clear and
plain type that no strain to the eye might be effected. The copy
books used in our schools are entirely free from space lines, and
the copy as legible as it is possible to obtain.

, At the beginning of the school year, it was decided to introduce the Natural System of Vertical Writing into our schools, and
during the Teachers’ Institute, held the first week of September,
the teachers were instructed by me in that system so as to be able
to use it in presenting the daily work. The results obtained have |
been most gratifying. Each month samples of the pupils’ work are
taken, and carefully reviewed by the Superintendent and myself,
thereby noting the progression of each pupil individually. This has
proved very helpful.

Owing to the rapidly growing condition of our schools, an
assistant in this department was thought necessary, and in October,
Miss Katherine MacDonnell was elected to the position. This
makes it possible for the lower grades to receive the required
attention.

Altogether the department of penmanship has passed through
one of its most successful years, if diligence on the part of both
teacher and pupil, painstaking efforts and almost perfect results,
can be taken as criterion thereof.

In conclusion, wish to extend my thanks to the Superintendent, principals and teachers, for their hearty interest and
effective co-operation.

: Respectfully yours,
ESTHER A. MacDONNELL,
Supervisor of Penmanship.

|
|
.
. |
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
REPORT OF SUPERVISOR OF PHYSICAL
TRAINING.
To the Superintendent and Members of the School Board of the
City of Holyoke.
GENTLEMEN: —I herewith submit my report on Physical Training in the schools of Holyoke for the year ending November  ,
 .
The principles underlying the system which teach, have
already made clear in my last year's report.
As concerns the result of my work, it is not quite what expected and hoped to accomplish.
It seems that the teachers, under the given circumstances and
in spite of all the good will, are not capable of carrying out my program, and that here and there many lessons are neglected,
which is very deplorable. Under these circumstances it is only
wonderful that the execution of the exercises in itself is so good
that cannot but give the praise which is due to the scholars and
the teachers. It is not alone so much the fine rendering of the
exercises, the good position, etc., that seek, but an equality must
be brought about between mental and physical work. And likewise the mind must not be strained at the cost of the body, and
vice versa.
In looking over two reports of the School Committee (of the
city of Holyoke), one of June the other of April ,
in which the regulations and courses of study were given, there also
appeared few regulations of physical culture, of which two points
shone out prominently: ‘Physical culture is before mental, and
physical culture takes precedence of mental culture,” two very true
points. But to-day it is just the opposite, ‘“ Mental culture is
before physical,”’ which, during the past, have found to be the
case (here and there), for if was not wholly satisfied with the way
in which the given work was executed, it was said that under the
circumstances they could not always find time to do the required
work.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
The result is, that if the exercises are not executed regularly
and are only taken now and then, the pupils become tired and have
slight pains in the muscles, which is especially the case in the
harder exercises of the body. That is the reason why parents
believe that calisthenics are injurious to children, because they
cause little soreness and the children become tired. If calisthenics are to show their worth, they must be taken daily, and then,
and only then, will they do good to the body, and all signs of being
tired will disappear, and the slight soreness will leave, and the
body will take more comfortable feeling. It would be good idea
to have all the schools take their daily gymnastic lesson at the same
time, and for this purpose the last fifteen minutes before the morning recess would be the best. ‘This is without doubt the best time,
for the free and easy movements which gymnastics give are invaluable during recess. The children run about, play and jump, which
is very good change. Gymnastics and play should go hand in
hand, and should so be arranged as to benefit the body. If in all the
' schools at given signal gymnastics were to be taken, it would give
the principals the best control, and without inconvenience they
could oversee all, and where it was necessary, lend helping hand.
But as has often been told me, if there really was not enough time,
I believe that we could easily furnish time; for if it could be so
arranged, the school could open fifteen minutes earlier and the
School Committee could set this time for gymnastics only. am
fully assured that where it concerns the health of our youth, and
how to make it more robust, that nota single teacher would hesitate
to give the required fifteen minutes for this work. It would be very
little work for the teachers, but it would be vast amont of good
work for the benefit of the children, and the time will come when
one -will thank them for it. For believe that the time has come
when such an important point in the education of our youth can no
longer be neglected. So would kindly ask the Committee on Gymnastics to take this matter into consideration with the Superintendent of Schools, and adopt such measures as would put my plan into
operation, namely ‘‘ Physical culture is before mental or, physical
culture precedes mental culture.”
As you know, have also taught dumb-bell, wand and club

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
exercises, which were very well liked by the children. Unfortunately these exercises had to be put aside, as the vacant rooms and
halls of the several schools were’ in use for school purposes, and
there was insufficient space between the seats to execute the
exercises. Only in the High School would said exercises be
executed till the close of the school year. At present there are
only two school halls at my disposal, that of the West Street and
Hamilton Street Grammar Schools. After New Year’s will begin
light gymnastics in the Hamilton Street School. would like to
begin light gymnastics in the West Street Grammar School, where
there is such beautiful hall; nevertheless, have not the necessary
apparatus at my disposal. As this apparatus will cost but small
sum, would kindly entreat the Committee on Gymnastics to provide
said school with them. Then it would be possible to take up the
light gymnastics in two schools.

I furthermore believe that it is now time to arrange definite
plan concerning gymnastics in the new High School, how and in what
manner the gymnastics can be executed for the good of the pupils.
It is absolutely necessary that we have calisthentics, both light and
heavy gymnastics in the new High School. For the last mentioned
we should have suitable apparatus, such as horizontal and parallel
bars, horse, buck, rings, giant swing, ladders, climbing-poles and
ropes and jumping apparatus. Here the cost of good outfit ought
not to be considered, and everything possible should be done

‘towards good gymnasium, so that the best possible bodily training
can be given to the pupils. shall not fail at the given time to lay .
before the Honorable School Committee definite plan concerning
gymnastics.
Yours respectfully,
F. EGER,
Physical Director.

REPORT XX.
ESTIMATES OF THE SCHOOL
DEPARTMENT
FoR THE YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
SALARIES.
, Cost of
Last Year. Katimate. Increase. Decrease.
A—Superintendentof Schools,  ......
(See Explanation X).
B—Day school teachers,  .  .......
(See Illustration B).
C—Evening Elementary School,  ... .(See Illustration C).
. D—Evening Grammar School,     ee
(See Illustration C).
E—Evening Draughting School, eo   
(See Illustration C).
F—Truant officers,   se    
(See Illustration F).
G—Janitors,  .  .....(See Illustration G).
H—Text book clerk,  teens
(See Explanation X).
I—Supcrintendent’s deputy, sec  sw  s
(See Illustration I).
J—County Truant School, ow  
(See Illustration F). ————  ——— —————-——
Total salaries,  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
SCHOOL SUPPLIES. .
Cost of |
Last Year. Estimate. Increase. Decrease.
K—Text books, 
(See Illustration K).
L—Educational supplies,   wo   
(See Illustration L).
M—Printing and advertising, ss   
(See Explanation X).
N—Typewriting, se   
(See Explanation X).
BUILDING SUPPLIES.
O—Furniture,   ......
(See Illustration O).
P—Building supplies,     
(See Explanation X),
Q—Telephone, wee   oceans
(See Explanation X).
R—Power, light and water,   os .  
S— Livery, wees 
(See Explanation X).
T—Transportation of children, ce   
(See Explanation X).
U—Freights and drayage, —.  
(See Explanation X).
V—Rents,    .....(See Illustration V).
W—Miscellaneous and Cont’g’t,        
(See Illustration W). —— —— OC
Totals,  
Net increase, . 
Approved by the School Committee, January .
(The illustrations, explanations and detail specifications above referred to can be seen at any time at the Superintendent’s office. )

|
|

TWENTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
OF
HOLYOKE, MASS.

FOR THE ;
YEAR  .
Ss  D
oe BEA pl
De ey
ie  
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
Grivritu, Axteii. Cavy Co.
 .

OFFICERS FOR  .
WATER COMMISSIONERS,
MARTIN P. CONWAY, CHAS. D. COLSON,
JOHN J. SULLIVAN.
WATER REGISTRAR.
J. C. SULLIVAN.
SUPERINTENDENT.
JOHN D. HARDY.
 INSPECTORS.
JAMES F. CLEARY, THOMAS E. SULLIVAN.
FOREMAN OF PIPE WORKS.
JOHN O'BRIEN.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

Zo the Honorable, the City Council of the City of Holvoke:
The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present the
following as their report for the year ending December  :—

RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES. :

RECEIPTS.
Balance from  $ 
Sale of  water bonds and premiums,  ,Q I. 
Water rents, .  
Interest on meters,  
Service pipe,  
Interest on deposits,  
Sundries, ol  
Total, $ 
EXPENDIIURES. *

Main pipe extensions, , 
Service pipe extensions,  
Main pipe repairs,  
Service pipe repairs,  
Hydrants, .  
Reservoirs, ,  
Interest on water bonds,  
Supervison and inspection,  
Meters, .  

  REPORT OF WATER KOARD.
Barn, , 
Shop, ,  
Office, ,  
Southampton supply,  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works (shop and yard),  
George Bray (land),  
Mary A. and Absalom W. Drew (land),  
Jules Jacques (land),  
Dwight H. Ives (land),  
Michael Tatro (land),  
Robert Brown (land),  
Sinking fund (premium on bonds),  
For all other purposes,  
Cash on hand,  
Total, $ 
HOLyoKE, December .

[ hereby certify that have examined the cash book of the
Board of Water Commissioners for the year ending December  ,
 and find it correctly footed, and the disbursements sustained

. by approved vouchers, and the balance of cash in hand to be
eighty-eight thousand, two hundred and seventy-six sixty-eight
one-hundredths dollars, which is made up as follows :—

Holyoke National bank, -. 

Home, . .

Park, ‘“ “e  

City, co,  

Bank bills, . 

Currency,   
$ 

[Signed CHARLES T. PLIMPTON,

Auditor and Accountant.

The year has been, for this department, one of thrift

and prosperity. In the amount of money passed through our

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
hands, in the number of men employed, and in the vastness of
work undertaken, there is no single year in our history that compares with it.

Within the city, we have not done much for the conducting
portion of our water system. This is so simply because we have
planned, before extending and enlarging the main pipes, to place
the reservoirs in as good condition as our means will allow before
the waters of the Manhan river are allowed to flow into them.

There are, however, few things of more than ordinary
moment which we have done in the city to which we would invite
your attention. We have fitted up, in one of the buildings on our
grounds on Commercial street, machine shop for the sake of
convenience and economy in our business. At present this is, of
course, an expensive item; but it will amply repay our department by the readiness and carefulness with which our tools and
implements may hereafter be made and repaired it will thus be a
source of savings as the years go by.

An investigation of the need of better fire protection, suggested
at conference with the Board of Fire Commissioners, convinced
us of the necessity of placing large number of hydrants during
the coming year, in the newly developed and thickly settled sections
of the city. The improvements recently made in the manufacture
of hydrants caused us to have made public test of fourteen or
fifteen different makes, under the immediate supervision of Fire
Commissioner Newcomb. The test was thorough and was witnessed
by many representatives of the New England town and city
water boards. It was our purpose herein to ascertain which
hydrant in the market had the best waterway and mechanical
construction. The experiment has been decided very satisfactory
and it will be of much benefit to us and also to our successors

. when about to make purchases of hydrants. For reference and use,
we will keep faithfully tabulated account of the result of the examination.

We made our reservoirs, too, the objects of our solicitude
and care. Around the Whiting Street reservoir we built a
splendid gravel road, encircling it entirely; its banks and edges
were cleaned and so thoroughly renovated that for some time

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

at least we will not be bothered by vegetable and other organic
matter which has, until now, been the source of much annoyance
to us.

On account of the aptitude of Whiting Street reservoir to the
trial of any plan of filtration that we may have in mind, we had
plans drawn showing the feasibility of locating filter beds between
the upper and lower reservoirs. Our purpose was to locate these
beds that the water when passing from the upper basin to the intake below would go through process of sand filtration, which
would make it almost pure before it enters the main that conducts
it to the city. Experiments were temporarily abandoned, awaiting
the experience of other cities in this direction. The building of
the filter beds would also prevent us from increasing the pressure
on the Highlands, which we believe should be an immediate
consideration.

In the vicinity of Ashley and Wright ponds we have bought
the Bray, Drew, Jacques, Ives and Brown farms. Our owning
these contiguous tracts of land will enable us to fully protect our
water shed from further pollution. Most of the houses and sheds
on these premises were sold at public auction and the remaining
ones we have concluded to retain and use for the storage of the
hay, which will year by year be gathered from the fields.

The roadway on the westerly side of Ashley pond, south of
the Tatro farm, has been widened and graveled, and thus been made
more suitable to foot and team travel. On each side of the road
on the westerly side of Wright pond we have put an iron fence in
lieu of the well-nigh useless wooden one; and on the easterly side
of each of these ponds there has been raised dike which makes
the water coming from the mucky sections of the ponds, percolate
through the dikes, rendering it pure and wholesome before entering
the mains.

On the southwest corner of Ashley pond, we built an additional overflow so much needed during the rainy days of each year
when the water from the surrounding lands and hillsides flows so
plentifully into the ponds. In consequence of these improvements
made around and about our water basins, we take just pride in
saying that the water flowing from them and through our mains to

) REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
all parts of our city is much more healthful than heretofore, and that
the surroundings are much more accessible and beautiful.

And while we were thus preparing our distributing reservoirs
at home for the reception of the waters to come from our new
source of supply, we were at the same time developing this latter in
the best possible way and we have fallen short only one month of
realizing the hope that we entertained year ago, that is, ‘‘ of having, before the close of  the pure and wholesome water of the
Manhan river running into our healthy and beautiful Ashley and
Wright ponds.”

‘The intake reservoir and dam, begun the year before by Concontractors Fred T. Ley Co. of Springfield, were finished last
June, and immediately accepted by the Board of County Commissioners of Hampshire County. The beauty, strength and excellence
of this section of our new supply may be appreciated by reading a
brief description of it, which we here give. :

Under this contract was included cleaning and grubbing the
reservoir and dam site, and removing from the same whatever might
endanger the permanency of the work or the purity and wholesomeness of the water, building the gate-house, dam, and constructing the overflow and an overflow canal, thereby making provision
for the safety of the dam during seasons of high floods so common
om both the Manhan and Tucker brooks.

To make an ideal reservoir basin all the muck, loam and
vegetable matter were removed. Larger quantities were taken
from the reservoir than was first estimated, owing to the quantity of
vegetable matter which lay hidden beneath the surface covered by
from one to two feet of silt and gravel deposited by streams in
times of high water.

The total length of the dam from its extreme end to the overflow is goo feet. During the construction of the work it was
thought wiser to raise the height of both overflow and dam one
foot more than called for by the original plans, thereby securing an
additional storage capacity of gallons. The width of the
dam on top is fifteen feet, with slight crown in the middle;
from the top the slope both ways is two to one.

The inside slope is riprapped with field stones to within two

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

feet of the top of the dam, no stone laying less than twelve inches
being used. This riprap is secured against settling by foundation
of larger stones, many of them half cubic yard in size, being put
in at the toe of the dam and sunken to depth of at least one
foot below the natural surface of the ground.

The concrete core which runs through the dam longitudinally
is eighteen inches in width on top, and batters on the down stream
side two inches to one foot until it reaches the original surface of
the ground then it tapers slightly on both sides into the ground a
distance of from five to seven feet. This core is built to within two
feet of the top of the dam its greatest height in any place is twentyfive feet and its greatest width is five feet. An equal mixture of
Alpha-Portland and Rosendale cement in the proportion of one of
cement, two of sand and four of stone is used in its construction.
Great care was taken in the construction of the whole dam so as
to have as water-tight an embankment as possible.

The embankments on both sides of the concrete wall were
built of selected gravel; the top of the dam and down stream slope
were covered with loam, and seeded to grass. :

The gate-house is set in the middle of the dam, and is built of
brick, laid in Portland cement; the foundation is solid bed of
concrete eight inches thick, which extends one foot each way beyond
the outside walls. Extending entirely through the dam at the gatéhouse is twenty-four-inch cast-iron pipe set on an elevation
whereby the reservoir can be entirely emptied and cleaned.

Adjacent and parallel to this drain pipe, but at higher elevation, is another cast-iron pipe which is thirty inches in diameter,
and serves as the intake pipe for the new supply. It extends to the
thirty-inch valve in the gate-house, where it ends. In this space
three sets of screens are located for straining the water before entering another thirty-inch pipe, which extends fifty feet beyond the
outer toe of the dam, and where the twenty-inch main is connected.
The reason pipe thirty inches in diameter was needed, while the
pipe for the new main is only twenty inches, is to make allowance
for an additional supply should one be necessary in the future, thus
doing away with the tearing down or opening the dam to lay a
new pipe.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  

The overflow of the reservoir consists of granite rollway,  
feet long, two feet six inches wide, and twelve inches thick, set in
Portland cement, upon concrete foundation three feet thick and
sunk six feet in the ground. Both sides of this rollway are riprapped similiar to that on the inside slope of the dam; the inside
approach being paved length of ten feet, and the outside twentyfive feet. It was computed that, even from the mountainous
nature of the water-shed, the highest rainfall in this section of the
country would not raise the height of the water on the overflow to |
a depth of three feet. Therefore it is very plain that there is large
factor of safety between the height of the greatest flood of which
we have any record, and the height to which the water can safely
rise without injury to the dam.

The overflow canal begins at the rollway and runs southerly
away from the dam, until it reaches the bed of the Manhan river,
a distance of feet. The material excavated from the canal
has been put on the side next to the dam, and with the waste
material taken from the reservoir, has been filled in against the
dam, forming solid bank, sloping from the edge of the canal to
the inside edge of the dam proper. This insures absolute protection to the dam, rendering it secure against any possible encroachment of high water.

Our next step was to connect this intake reservoir and dam
at Southampton, Mass., with Ashley and Wright ponds.

After plans of the pipe line were submitted by Engineer Tighe
and thoroughly examined by this board, they were referred to Consulting Engineer McClintock for his approval.

On May  of last year contract was signed with Daniel
O’Connell Sons to make all excavations and lay approximately
  lineal feet of twenty-inch pipe. Work was commenced on
May  th and has since been carried on with ability and expedition.
An idea of the amount of work contained in the contract may be
had by reading the following: In selecting the course of the pipe
line great care was exercised in all features relating to its ultimate
success, not only from an engineering standpoint, but from that of
economy, before the final alignment was decided upon. From the
undulating nature of the country many difficulties presented them  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

selves, some of which seemed to be unsurmountable to pipe line
construction unless at fabulous outlay. However, by the careful
study of our engineers all these difficulties were reduced to a
minimum, thereby bringing the cost of construction within a
reasonable limit, and this was not accomplished either at the expense
of the pipe line itself by making it too tortuous with bends and
curves, thus lessening its discharging capacity; instead, so much
attention had been paid to this important feature of construction
that all bends and curves, either horizontal or vertical, were laid with
radii not less than feet. So thoroughly were these details
worked out that the whole pipe line when finished will be constructed of straight pipe twelve feet in length without single
special casting, thus saving considerable extra expense which otherwise would have to be met. Our pipe line is unique in this respect.
In so far as our knowledge goes, it is the first cast-iron pipe line of
its length and size in this country, having all bends and curves laid
in radii of such lenghts. The pipe line is approximately feet
in length. The thirty-inch supply pipe leading from the intake
reservoir through the dam and gate-house at Southampton branches
out at point fifty feet below the toe of the dam into two pipes
twenty and twenty-four inches in diameter. Here the twenty-inch
pipe line begins and it terminates in canal built upon the banks
of Ashley pond, into which it will discharge over weir fashioned
in the canal wall adjoining the pond,

The difference of elevation between the crest of the overtlow
of the intake reservoir and the crest of the weir already mentioned
is feet, and that between the axis of the pipe leading from the
intake reservoir and crest of same weir is  feet. In other words,
the maximum discharge head” is feet, while the minimum ts
  feet.

The first two miles of the pipe line, from the intake, runs in a
southerly direction, adjacent to the southwest branch of the Manhan
river, as far as the hamlet of Russellville, thence slightly winds
eastward through Middle Farms and the plains of Westfield, to the
notch in the Holyoke mountain range, where it turns northerly
toward Ashley pond. Its course is through farming districts and
intercepts public thoroughfares, streams, rights of ways, easements

|
|
REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
and two railroads, the Northampton branch of the N. Y.,N. H. &
H. R. R. and the Holyoke and Westfield branch of the same
railroad.

At all the lowest points of the pipe line where its elevation
ascends on either side, ‘‘ blow-offs’’ are placed; while at all summits between these blow-offs,” air valves, one inch in diameter,
are set. Since it is that in times of very low rainfall there may not
be sufficient water in the intake reservoir, or coming down the
streams, to keep the pipe discharging at its full capacity, air will
enter the pipe, matter which should be guarded against as far as
possible.

The pipe line is an inverted syphon, having one leg about
four times as long as the other; it is evident therefore that, though
the quantity of water entering the pipe be ten gallons per day or
  gallons per day, the pipe will always remain full between
its discharge end at Ashley pond, and that point on the pipe line
at higher elevation than Ashley pond. This point will be somewhere in the first two miles, and shall move up and down this distance according as the quantity entering the pipe increases or decreases. Should summit occur in these two miles, its presence,
if below hydraulic gradient, would nowise effect the flow in the
pipe, until the time of low water, when the quantity would not be
sufficient to fill the pipe, thus allowing air to enter. Some of this
air, as the pipe would begin to fill again with water, would get
blocked in the summit and retard the flow or stop it altogether,
unless there was some means for the air to escape. For this purpose many automatic contrivances are made, yet none have given
entire satisfaction. Moreover, an automatic contrivance twelve
miles away from daily superintendence would hardly suggest itself as
worthy of much trust or reliability. Therefore the only solution of
this important problem would be to have no summits in the first two
miles of pipe line, even though the cost would be considerably increased on account of the extra excavation.

Consequently we decided to have no summits in the first two
miles of pipe line, and as it is now constructed there will be no
anxiety from air entering it when partially filled, as it will escape
again through the gate-house, on the pipe becoming full.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

Five different thicknesses of pipes, having the same internal
diameter, constitute the pipe line. The pipes are so proportioned
in strength as to resist equally the pressure of the water, which will
vary from nothing to pounds. The object of doing this was
from the point of economy, saving over eleven thousand ($ )
dollars on the cost of the pipe.

In the rock excavation, the ditch was six feet wide in which
the pipe was laid, hugging closely one side, thus allowing second
pipe to be placed in the same ditch without further blasting. The
average depth of the pipe below the natural surface of the ground
is five feet, while the deepest cuts or excavations are not greater
than eighteen feet.

On the southwest bank of Ashley ponds is constructed the
terminal canal; it is rectangular in shape, measuring forty-three
feet in length, fifteen feet in width and seven feet in depth; the
walls are two feet in thickness and built of quarried stone laid in
Portland cement; the floor is Portland concrete, eight inches in
thickness. All walls and the floor are plastered to thickness of
one-quarter of an inch, with neat Alpha-Portland, the idea being to
get structure as impermeable as possible to water.

In the wall adjoining Ashley pond the weir above referred
to is set; it is four feet in length and fashioned permanently in
the masonry. The bottom of the canal below the crest of the weir
is five feet in depth. All the water from Southampton discharged
by the twenty-inch pipe will pass over the weir for measurement.
The object of this is not only to know the discharging capacity of
the pipe now almost laid, but also to know from year to year what
this discharging capacity is lessened by tubercules or barnacles
growing on the inside of the pipe—a data invaluable when the size
of second pipe line is being designed.

Over the end of the pipe leading into the terminal canal is a
gate-house now in the course of construction. In this gate-house is
placed twenty-inch gate that shall control the discharge of the pipe.

The contract for building this terminal canal and gate-house
was awarded to George L. Bosworth Co.

We regret very much that the laying of the pipe line remains
unfinished at this writing; but it is not our fault, nor that of the

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
contractors. It is rather due to the heavy rains of last August,
which necessitated the cessation of work for many days. Even now
there remains only one mile of pipe to be laid, and this can easily
be done within the space of month.

The cost of the work to this hour, including all money paid for
preliminary engineering, land purchases, damages and rights of way
is two hundred and six thousand ($ dollars, and including
interest on this account we have on hand an unexpended balance of |
forty eight thousand ($ dollars.

We are indeed pleased to be able to acquaint you with the fact
that we have sucded in making settlement in nearly all cases
where lands were damaged and rights of way were taken and where
we were unable to mike settlement we have had, in compliance with
our Water Act, filed with the proper authorities the descriptions of
the properties in dispute. ‘These settlements will be made later,
according to law.

It is with pleasure, too, that we here make mention of the kindness and consideration with which the selectmen of Southampton
treated us in our business relations with them. It was under their
direction that their highways were dug up by our men. We therefore take this occasion to publicly extend to them our kindliest feelings of gratitude.

Before closing our report we desire to bring to your notice a
matter of some importance to this department. We have closed
our old place of business on Elm street. We have outgrown its
capacity, and hence it is useless to us. It may, however, be very
useful to the city, inasmuch as it is adjoining the school property
on the same street. Therefore we hold ourselves ready to hand
over this piece of property toyou. We suggest, however, that you in
return for it make some remuneration to our department, otherwise
our construction account will be deficient to the amount paid for
it some twenty years ago.

We would not that you pay us the market value of the place,
since it has in the meantime increased threefold. We think this
suggestion only just, since the money paid therefor came from the
earnings of this department.

And now we will here draw our report to aclose. We cannot,

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
however, do so without thanking your honorable body for your
assistance given us during the past year, and without congratulating
the city on the splendid condition of its water system and department. We are in splendid financial condition and the water with
which the city will in future be served will be supplied in abundance
and purity.
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
Cost reported December . 
Increase during the year:
Main pipe extensions, 
Hydrants,.  
Meters,  
Reservoirs,  
Southampton supply,  
Holyoke Hydrant and Iron Works
(shop),  
George Bray (land),  
Mary A. and Absalom W. Drew (land),  
Jules Jacques (land),  
Dwight H. Ives (land),  
Robert Brown (land),  
Michael ‘Tatro (land),  
——-——  
$ 
The cast-iron mains were extended feet. For location,
size and length of extensions see ‘l'able A. The length of cast-iron
mains, fifty-seven miles, feet, and of temporary wrought-iron,
five miles, feet. For location, sizes and lengths of mains see
Tables and C.
Fifteen gates of various sizes were set in new locations. ‘The
total number to date is  Jor size and location see tables D
and E.
Five hydrants were set in new locations. ‘The total number of
public fire hydrants is  For location, etc., see Tables and G.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Following Table is summary of fire service in the various mills
in the city, which is additional to the above.

Four meters were set in new locations and three disconnected,
making the total now in use to date  For make, size and location see Table H.

Ninety-five service pipe connections were added during the
year, making the total number in use to date  .

Four additional stand-pipes for the use of watering carts were
put in, making the total number now in use fifty.

Seventeen leaks in service pipes, and four leaks in main pipes
have been repaired.

Water has been turned off from thirteen services for non-payment of rent, and turned on again upon payment of rent and 
fine.

The average depth of water in the gate-house at Wright pond
for the year was eleven feet nine inches, and at Whiting Street reservoir eighteen feet eleven inches.

. SINKING FUND.
(Bonds Due Igoo.) .
Amount reported December ..  |

Increase during the year:
Accrued interest on investments,  
Interest on balance in Holyoke National Bank,  
Interest on balance in Park National Bank,  
Interest on balance in City National Bank,  

‘Total, . 

INVESTMENTS.

Holyoke city bonds, 
Holyoke National Bank (temporary),  
City National Bank (temporary),  
Park National Bank (temporary),  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Holyoke Savings Bank, 
People’s Savings Bank,  
Mechanics’ Savings Bank, oo.  
Loans on real estate (first mortgage),  
Total, . 
HotyokE, Mass., Iecember .

I hereby certify that have this day examined the bonds,
notes, bank books and other securities held by the Board of Water
Commissioners as sinking fund for the payment of Holyoke water
bonds, and find the amount two hundred and fifty-five thousand
two hundred and eleven dollars and two cents ($ as
above stated.

[Signed CHARLES T. PLIMPTON,

Auditor and Accountant.
SINKING FUND.
(Bonds Due )
Amount set apart from sale of bonds (premium), 

Increase during the year:

Interest on deposit in Home National Bank,  

Total, . 

INVESTMENTS.
Home National Bank (temporary), 
HoLyokE, December .

I hereby certify that have this day seen certificate signed by
the cashier of the Home National Bank of Holyoke, certifying that
twenty-one thousand five hundred sixty-eight dollars and

|
REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
sixty-three cents is deposited in that bank, belonging to special
account of the Holyoke Water Commissioners.
[Signed CHARLES T. PLIMPTON, :
Auditor and Accountant.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
MARTIN P. CONWAY,
CHARLES D. COLSON,
JOHN J. SULLIVAN,
Water Commissioners.
Holyoke, December .
TABLE A.

STATEMENT OF LOCATION, SIZE AND LENGTH OF EXTENSIONS MADE IN
 .
OE ot Op

. 
LOCATION. FE)
pom lo we
 Cv
| |
| |
Almshouse, from upper Springfield Road...........'  
Almshouse Road (Griftin’s hill) ...-.--..-      !  
Arthur Street from Vincent St., south ............. |
Ashley Pond, at overflow, southwest Coruer.........;  
Cabot Street, from Park to Canal Streets .....-.....  
Clinton Ave., from Dwight Street to Miller Ave.....'  
Hampshire Street, from Commercial Street, east...  
Oscar Street, from Peltiah Street, south.............,  
Peltiah Street, from lower Springtield Road, east...  
Spring Street, from Park Street, east, feet, Linch.
Springfield Road, south from end of pipe, feet.!
WA imch.... ..   wc cc   ce tee rece ones os ;
Total, feet... ..e      cree, LIA 
"

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE B.
LOCATION AND SIZE OF CAST-IRON PIPE NOW LAID.
| P| ;
log cle yp ;
LOCATION.  ‘S S| 
S| gi 
| rn  n
fe |
| |
Adams street,  |
Allen street, |
Allyn street, e
Appleton street, |
Arlington !
Avon place,  !
Almshouse,  ;
Arthur street, ;
Ashley Pond, an  
Berkshire street,  |
Bristol place,  )
Blow- off,  
Bigelow street,  |
Bridge street, 
Bowers street,  |
Beacon street,  )
Brown avenue,  |
Bond street,  :
Bh street,  
Brooks avenue, y
, Clark street,  
Cottage avenue,|  
Commercial st.,  
ed dd dt

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
;  
d| elale |
els jele;e]elais

yp —-|—|— ,

| |

Canal street,  sl |

Cabot street, |

Chapin street,  |

Clinton avenue, |

Chestnut street,  |

Center street,  |

Carlton street, !

Canby street, |

Conduit, Bray: |
brook, |

Charles street,  |

Columbus ave., |

Columbus ave. |
Springdale, |

Deep Cut, 

Dwight street, |

Dwight street |

alley,  !

Fast street,  |

Elm street, |

Essex street,  |

Ely street, !

Deep Cut to, |
High and, |
Appleton sts., |

Deep Cut to |
Merrick’s farm |
house, |

Front street, mon |

Fairfieldavenue,; '! |

Franklin street, }

Glen street,  |

Gates street,  |

Gilman street, |

Grant street, |

i |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
nn a
LOCATION. A. ;} 
e+) Se }e)elele]ei 
[SO (| OS a
Griffin’s Hill,
leading to |
Almshouse, ,
Harrison ave., !
Highland Ter., ‘
Hitchcock lane, |
High street, |
High street, |
south end of |
pipe,  |
, Hydrants,  :
ave. feet, |
Hampden st., |
Hamilton street,! |
H’ps’re  |
street, r-in. ct |
Hampshire Ter., |
Highland street,) |
Highland ave., !
Howard street,  |
Ingleside Ter., |
Jackson street, .
James street, |
John street,  :
Linden street,  !
Lyman street, |
Lincoln street, |
Lynwood ave., |
Locust street, |
Lawler street,  !
Laurel street,  |
Main street, ,
Maple street,  bo
Meadow street, |
Morgan street, rors. :

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. ,
a  |
LOCATION.  a|/ #|] 
+)  e}ele]s
Mosher street,  
Miller avenue, .
Magnolia street,  
Northampton st.| 
Newton street, ,
Nonotuck street,  
N street,  
Oak street, .
O'Connor ave.,  
Oscar street,  
Ol; ft.
ive st |
of  -in .
Plymouth place,| .
Papineau street,!  
Park street, 
Pleasant street, 
Prospect street, 
Pine street, 
Pequot street,  
Pear] street, 
Parker street,  
Peltiah street, |
Railroad street,  
Race street, 
Riverside Ter.,  
Springdale ave., |
Samoset street, |
Springfield road,  
South street,  
Summer street, 
Sargeant street, 
School street,  
St. James ave.,  
St. Jerome ave.,  
Shawmut ave.,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

a re] re

LOCATION. FE gig

of |o] ]af|Ss  '

|  
—
Suffolk street,  |
Sycamore street, |
Tannery Brook, |
Taylor street, |
Thorpe street, !
Temple street, |
Union street, |
Vernon street,  !
View street, |
Waldo street, |
Winter street,  
Walnut street, |
Worcester place,; |
West street, |
Whiting Street |
dam for waste,  |
Willow street,  |
Water street, |
William street, |
Washington av.,;  |

Total, oss coal oh

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Total number of feet, or miles and feet.
 -inch, .  -inch, .  -inch, -inch, .  -inch, .  -inch, .  -inch, ,  -inch, ,  
Total, ,  
Pipe laid per report of   
Amount laid in   
Total, ,  
TABLE C.
Summary of small pipe now laid for temporary mains divided
as follows :— }
\-inch, , feet
-inch, , “
I -inch, , *
 -inch, JF, “
 -inch,   ‘
  -inch, . ‘
 -inch, , ‘€
Total number of feet, ‘*
Five miles and feet.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE D.
SUMMARY OF GATES SET IN  .
: a|az
(S) oO
LOCATION. |s 
Hb
Almshouse, feet south of south line of Almshouse and in line
of land west line of building. .........  ce wane ]
Arthur street, at Vincent, feet east of west line of Arthur and
in line of land on Vincent, south side.........   waee |
Bh street at Hampden, feet east of west line of Bh,  
feet north of north line of Hampden........  ...     
Cabot street, feet north of south line of Cabot and feet
east of east line of second level canal. ....  ... woes ]
Cabot street, feet north of south line of Cabot and in line of
land east side of Race street. ........ ce weeweetweens  
Cabot street, feet north of south line of Cabot street and  
- rgefeet east of west line of Main street...... cc   ees ]
Cabot street, at Main street, feet north of south line of Cabot
and in line of land on Main street, east side.............-.  
Cabot street at Park, feet north of south line of Cabot and  
feet west of west line of Park. .......... nes  l
Clinton avenue, feet east of west line of Clinton avenue,  
feet north of north line of Dwight...........  ...    
Clinton avenue, feet south of north line of Clinton avenue
and in line of land on Miller avenue........-...    ]
Hampshire street at Commercial, feet north of south line of
Hampshire, feet east of west line of Commercial.......  
Oscar strect, feet west of east line of Oscar and in line of
land on Peltiah street, south side.........  cence cn ]
Peltiah street at Springfield road, feet south of north line
of Peltiah and in line of land on Springfield road, east side  
Race street, feet west of east line of Race, and foot south
of north line of Cabot. ......    ce   esc   
Race street at Cabot, feet west of east line of Race, and  
feet south of south line of Cabot........     eens  
Total oc...      ce   weeene twee     oT

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
TABLE E.
LOCATION AND SIZE OF GATES.
LOCATION. |] |.  /.  ).  |. /) 
+) /e/e}spiels
Appleton and Water, r
“ and Mill, I
‘ near Merrick Lumber Co., I
“ ft. east  level canal, I
“  ft. west I
‘* for hyd. W. R. R. crossing, I
“  ft. east of Bond,  
Adams and Canal, |
Appleton and Canal, |
At Almshouse, |
 main line, I
ss ft. south, |
Allen and Elm, I
‘and Chapin, I
Allyn and Nonotuck, |
‘ and Arlington, I
* and Howard, I
“and Waldo, I
‘* and Northampton, I
and Williams, I
Arlington and Lincoln, |
‘* and Hampden, I
Arthur and Vincent, I
Bray Brook, at reservoir, :
Brown avenue and South, I
Brooks avenue and Hampden, I
Bh and Dwight, é
‘ at City Hospital, I
‘ and Appleton, ‘
 and Jackson, blow-off, ||
‘* and Hampden, |
|

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
ya lelel alee.
Gi ec |. |. |-c |
SS bre as
eeee |
Bh, ft. in. E. of North’n.  |
‘and North’ton, blow-off, |
“  “e Suffolk, |
Bond and Appleton, Li |
co  Essex, |
 Cabot, |
Bowers and Lyman,  
“  Mosher,  
rT, ‘“* Dwight, |
“ “Pequot, |
Berkshire and Main, I
Bigelow and Dwight, I
“ for Beebe Holb’k P. Co.|  
and Appleton, |
‘for Alpaca Co. mill, |
‘“ and Cabot, |
Beacon avenue and Pleasant, |
“é Northtampon, |
“ “cat Franklin, |
“ at Thorpe, |
Bridge and Lyman, :
  Cabot, |
 Hamilton, L
“ Sergeant, |
“c Adams, |
  Mosher, po
“ Canal, So. Holyoke, [| |
Brown avenue and Laurel, || |
Chestnut and Prospect, i
“  ‘; Hampden, |
“  Lyman, |
“ Appleton, |
“ “Cabot, tf] |
‘. ‘‘ Sargeant |
‘  “Suffolk, |
a tt

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. ad Pear: Jid|.
o oO  lolol
LOCATION. §& .€& |. ). /.
aE
a QD
an
Crescent and Appleton, ri
Cabot and Canal, ri |
  Park, |
“  Main,  
o Race, I
“  ft. east  nd level canal, |
‘  ft. east rst level canal, |
“ ft. in. west first level |
canal, an |
‘* and High, |
Maple, |
  Pine, |
  Bh, |
 Locust, ry
Clinton avenue and Dwight,
“ Miller avenue, ri
Canby and Hampden, |
“ Beacon avenue, I
Commercial and Cabot, I
“  Sargeant,  |
“ Jackson,  
Center and Lyman, |
“  Mosher, Ho .
Canal, N. of Lyman, in walk, |
‘ for line of pipe for mills, |r .
 and Bridge, I
‘* near Val. P. Co’s block, |
‘ and Lyman, I
Lyman, blow-off, I
  Mosher, I
‘ ft. north from Applet’n, I
* and Appleton, ot I
 Cabot, I
 Cabot, ft. south
of Cabot, I

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
LOCATION. |/. ).  ]
Ce s/ /g|s
|
Canal and Jackson,  
sc Hamilton, blow-off, |
  Summer, |
Park, blow-off, !
 Main, So. Holyoke, |
Chapin and South, |
“ Carlton, |
 Allen,  |
“s “e Gates, |
‘ Walnut, |
 at Welch house, blow-off, |
Carlton and Northampton, Poof |
Clark and Northampton, |
Cottage and Beacon street, |
Cherry and Northampton, I
Charles and Washington, bo |
“c  South, rot.
Columbus ave and Northampton, 
Division and High, J
Dwight and Bridge, ||
: “e “Center, :
“West, P| !
‘ at Wauregan Paper Co., |
“and Front, |
Railroad, |
  Maple, |
‘ for cistern at Park, |
‘ and Chestnut, |
 Elm, |
  Walnut, rj) |
School, |
Pleasant, |
Northampton, |
Essex and Bh, ,
:  High, |
een
|

TO
| REPORT OF WATER ROARD.  
| ae ae lh ean aa dd he bas
 s) }]o)/ lo
LOCATION.    legless
SS  eel ae —|—}| —.
! oy |
| Essex and Maple, |
“ ft. south of north line |
| of Essex, ft. E. of E. line! |
) East and Jackson, |
rT rT) Lyman, |
“ Dwight, ian |
& Ely, |
‘ ‘é Cabot, |
‘ Mosher, |
| Ely and Bowers, oa |
i“ Gk Bridge, |
| Elm and Prospect, il
a  Byman, |
 Hampden, i) oe
‘* for stand-pipe at No.  ,| |
“ and Suffolk, Pt |
: Appleton, Pott tT bab.
se Cabot, |
‘é “ce Sargeant, |
eS" Gates, oT |
| ‘ce South, me aa
| Front and Lyman, Parsons in, co
| sé “é Lyman, eI |
! ie Dwight street alley, |
| ef “‘ Dwight, eT ae |
‘é ‘ec Appleton, BN |
Front of House of Providence, |
Franklin and Commercial, |
a Sycamore, yea |
ae Locust, |} |
Fairfield ave., front of White’s, |
house, |
Fairfield ave. and Pearl, |
  Northampton, ;
Gate-house at Ponds,  }
|
Digitized by Google

i
  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
re eres
ofS [S/S  iclele
[S/F i
Ce ——, —— ee
Gate-house at Tannery brook, |
és at Whiting Street
brook, otal,
Gate-house blow-off Whiting Street |
brook, oy |
Gates and Elm, |
Glen and orthampton, |
‘ Brown avenue, I
Grant and eadow, |
“ Brooks, |
Gilman and Northampton, |
Highland Terrace and orthampt’n |
Highland Terrace and Riverside ,
Terrace, ,
Hampshire Terrace and North’ton |
Hitchcock lane, at Merrick’s farm- |
house, |
Highland and Elm, I
High and Prospect, I
‘“  Hampden, po
  Lyman, I
“ Dwight,  
“for City Hall, |
“and Appleton, !
‘ec Cabot, |
“Sargeant,  !
“Jackson, |
Howard and Hampden, oI |
 “Lincoln, |
Harrison and South, |
“ “Washington, re |
Hampden and Pine, }
“ Prospect,  oI |
  ‘é High, |
‘  ** School, |
| ;
ee

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. !
|
ats |.  |. |. |
 S)   :
LOCATION, a) lg
|S je  )

|  Hampden and Brooks avenue, I
m Nonotuck, |
Hampden and Canby, |
as  Northampton, |
Hamilton and Canal, |
‘ ‘sé East, |
Hampshire and High, AY |
ns “Oak, les |
se Locust, y, |
ts ‘“ Commercial, |
Highland avenue and Pleasant, |
K Nonotuck, |
John and Front, [) |
  High, |
James, Springdale, me. |
Jackson and Maple, ze. |
sé  Main, Oo i
  Linden, oy |
  Summer, |
‘  ‘é Race, |
“é “ec High, |
Linden and Suffolk, a: |
“  Hampden, |
x Dwight, er |
i Sargeant |
 Hampshire, |
“  Essex, |
Lyman,r  ft.e. of w. line of Summer, |
* and Race, |
 ft. west of west line  |
level canal, |
“ ft. east of east line rst |
level canal, |
“and Front, ‘a |
‘“ High, |
a
Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
ia |g |eleleleldle .
LOCATION. s|/elele/eleieie
lath feiel 
$e —|— ,--|-- —|—
| Lyman and Pine,  
Ts Elm, I
Locust and Sargeant, |
  Franklin, rif !
$  Hainpshire, |
  Essex, )
Lawler and Northampton, |
Laurel and Brown avenue, |
  Northampton, ri |
Lynwood ave. and St. James ave., i; |! |
‘ Dwight, |
Lincoln and Taylor, |
‘“ ‘‘ Pleasant, iy ae .
  “Pearl, I! |
 Northampton, |
Main pipe, east end Rock cut,  
“  ‘* at sta.  Bray’s lot, ,
  Merrick's farmhouse, |
  blow-off. at Tannery |
brook, |
Merrick’s farmhouse, on  -inch |
Pipe, |
‘ farmhouse, intersection |
and  -inch pipe, |
Main and Race, |
  ft. n. of driveway, Hotel |
Hamilton, ri |
 and Appleton, :
‘  Sargeant, an |
“ ft. in. n. of n. line of |
 level canal, |
  ft. ro in. s. of s. line of  d. |
 level canal, Lo |
‘ and South,  !
“at Ferry road, |
! a

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
pepe aac caaei spent oe
S| me |g |e le
| lo}olalslels
 le win
; Main at Springdale br’k for b. o. I
| i“ ‘é I
| and Jackson, st “Cabot, I
Meadow and Main, I
| Morgan and Franklin, I
| te Northampton, I
“ ft. east of W. O. White’s|
| driveway ft. s. of n.
* line of Morgan, I
Maple and Prospect, [
o Lyman, |
“ ‘“ Hampden, I
“ for stand-pipe,) |
* and Suffolk, |
$  ‘* Appleton, |
“ for Congregational church,|) |
“ and Cabot, |
- Sargeant, |
bo‘Franklin, |
* Jackson, |
s South, |
Mosher and Center, |
; ‘“c ‘sé West, |
| “| Main, |
| Magnolia and Sargeant,  |
.  Locust, r| |
Miller avenue and Hampden, |
Newton and Appleton, rj} |
“e ‘é Cabot, oY |
Northampton b. o. at J. Thorpe’s,| I
“Asa Pray’s, El el
es  C. H. Hey-| ——
wood, :
 and Lincoln, I
| |
Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD. )
LOCATION. |. /)/  /. 
+ Oo; ajolole
om ve mm NTN
Northampton and Hampden, I
“ Dwight, |
at G. P. Ellison's, I
 and Bh, |
‘ at Ball’s corner, b. o., |
“and Hitchcock Lane, ,
 South, |
“at H. Brown’s, I
‘; and Lawlor, I
 near Glen, for b. o., :
 and Clark, I
at entrance Cemetery, I
‘ at Whiting’s farm, |
 at R. R. dry bridge, !
N and Northampton, |
N and Washington streets, |
Nonotuck and Lincoln, |
  Hampden, |
“ Dwight, |
 “Highland avenue, |
Olive and Dwight, in. .
Oak and Dwight, t
  Suffolk, |
  Appleton, }
Essex,  Cabot, Sargeant, |
‘O'Connor avenue and Dwight, |
Oscar and Peltiah, I
Peltiah and Springfield road, |
Pine and Lyman, I
  Hampden, Dwight, Suffolk,  
, Appleton, |
a

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
—-—See ae eT ie F
| }/oOlol]yV /Yelylye
LOCATION. SS ie LS LSS
| $/ [ed] 
| |
Pine and Cabot, I
| Hampshire, |
a  Sargeant, |
| Pequot and West, I
Park and Sargeant, I
“  Canal |
|  Jackson,  Cabot, eo &
Prospect and High, I
, ss Chestnut, blow-off, I
as Hampden, I
Pearl and Lincoln, |
  Hampden, ey |
  Fairfield avenue, PL
  Highland avenue, rf |
Papineau and Main, |
Pleasant and Fairfield avenue, |
fe Hampden, rie |
 Beacon avenue, ei] id |
 Dwight,  |
Parker and Hampden,  |
“  Beacon avenue, |
Race, for Hotel Hamilton, oe |
 and Dwight, wy |
| Main, io ae |
|  Appleton, |
  Cabot, |
! Sargeant, a) ae |
:  Jackson, ie on South; ry} |
  South, mp hn al br
 rear of Merrick ‘Thread oh  
mill, |
Railroad and Dwight, ea: || |
 Appleton, |
| |
Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
aDa j.dicaia
LOCATION.  \) |\ \g
+ |e ola lolole
-  eialna
Riverside Terrace and Highland
Terrace, I
Sargeant, at Parsons No. mill, I
Sargeant and Summer, I
es Park; I
Sargeant at H. and W. Bridge, I
and Maple,  Chestnut, I
 Walnut, I
o .Bh, Ne ae a
i Se Locust, I
  St. Jerome ave., I
Northampton, I
Sycamore and Sargeant, I
Summer and Lyman, I
a  Cabot, I
is Adams, I
vs “Canal, So. Holyoke,|  !
St. Jerome ave. and Dwight, I
St. James and St. Jerome aves., |
  Northampton, |
Shawmut ave. and Northampton, I
"  Lynwood ave. |
School and Hampden, I
éé Dwight, I
“ for stand-pipe, |
South and Race, r
‘ iT Maple, |
‘é és Chapin, |
ne blow-off, I
* east of Baptist church, a
“and Brown avenue, cs
Suffolk and Linden, |
es “School; |
“é “ec High, |
Digitized by Google

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
a SSS SS
aio |s |icic F
 S)  S) O, /' 
LOCATION. a] |. /.  |s) 
+|olo;/ojalsloie
ot  oe  Oe |
Suffolk and Maple, I
“  Chestnut, I
‘“c Elm, I
“ Walnut, I
“ “Pine, I
“  Bh, I
“ Oak, |
Springfield road, near Brigham's
house, I
“ road at intersection of North |
Street, at R. R. bridge, I
“ road at R. R. bridge, |
near Griffin’s house, |
 on pipe leading from |
upper Springfield road to |
No. street under bridge, |
““ road on pipe leading to |
H. F. Institute, !
“road at Brightside, ft. .
south of hydrant, Ti |
‘‘ road, ft. north of div. line, |
St.Martin’s, Brightside, I; oi |
*“ road at watering tank, rij |
 at Ferry road, rj, |
‘ and River Terrace, ie on |
  rT Ts és up- |
per road, }
Springdale ave., ft. east of Tem- |
ple street, |
Temple and James, fo
“ ‘Papineau, |
Tannery Brook line, n’r  -in. pipe, Py
Taylor, near  |
Taylor and Hampden, |
‘“* for blow-off at Prentiss house]  |
|

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
| i|e lacie “le
LOCATION.  
et} jololaloldole
 oa |
|
Union and Lyman, I
Vernon, Springdale, I
View and Brown avenue, I
 Northampton, ;
West and Dwight,  
West and Mosher, I
  Samosett, I
Washington and Harrison,  “Northampton, I
Waldo and Hampden, I
“ “Lincoln,  
Walnut and Lyman, :
“  ‘“ Dwight, I
“ “Suffolk,  
“ ‘‘ Appleton, 
‘  Cabot,  
“ Hampshire, I
“ “Essex, I
‘e ‘‘ Hampden, I
“  ‘‘ Sargeant, I
Water and Appleton, I
Willow and Brown avenue, I
“ce  Laurel, I
Whiting Street reservoir, I
Winter and Appleton, I
Williams and Lincoln, I
Total -in,J  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
SUMMARY.
 -inch gates, I
 -inch gates,  -inch gates,  -inch gates,  -inch gates,  -inch gates,  -inch gates,  
-  -inch gates, I
e .
 -inch gates, I
Total,  
TABLE F.
| SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS SET IN  .
| s
Cor. Ss
LOCATION. or Make. a
Side. .
&

At Almshouse .........  ... weenteens Hol. F. H.  
Dwight and Clinton Avenue...........--   
Hampshire and Commercial streets...........| S.E. Chapman.  
Oscar and Peltiah streets ........ sess  Hol. F. H.  
Thorpe street, near Hampden street, (steamer
COmNEction) .......     | WS.  
Total  ... ce        een  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE G.
LOCATION OF HYDRANTS.
 Z] |
S /s/e/s
Location. os Make. zl/s/Sit @/és
 islsle}e}e
 S/S /S 
oo of |
Adams and Park, SW /Hol. F, H.  
Adams and Mechanic,  
Appleton and Mechanic, South “s  
Appleton Street, ft. w.C. |
R. R. track, South Mathews, |
Appleton Street, ft. w. H.
and W. track. SE /Hol. F. H. |
Appleton and Bigelow, SE |
At Almshouse, ro |
Allen, corner Elm,  |]
Allen, haif way between |
Chapin and Elm, |
Allyn and Arlington, Pratt Cady  .
Allyn and Howard, rt  
Allyn and Williams, se |
Allyn and Nonotuck, os Poly |
Allyn and Waldo, Cor /Hol. F, y. Pf,
Arlington and Lincoln, “s oy
Bh and Dwight, SW ]
Bh and Suffolk, NE mo |
Bh and Appleton, IN .
Bh at hospital, |
Bigelow and Cabot, IN |
Bigelow, feet south of |; :
northeast corner Connor’s |
mill, West |
Bigelow, feet south of S|
northeast corner Of Alpaca
mill, West |
Bigelow, southeast corner of |
Skinner’s mill, West rs I

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
be lelstio!l®@|o
ae eleis/a/ PP)

 gy ome be
LOCATION. es Make. )/O|SB|s]}/ ule
 S\/s|sis/s\s
| wl {oS (d/ es] a
Bigelow, feet south of
Massasoit Paper Co., West |Mathews, |
Bigelow, feet south of
Dwight, West jHol. F. H.  
Bond and Essex streets, Cor  
Bond street, front of Skinner’s mill, Ws ss I
Bowers and Dwight, NE “s  
Bowers and Mosher, SE ar)  
Bowers and Ely, SE  
Beacon ave., east of No.  North  
Beacon ave. and Nonotuck,  
Beacon ave. and Canby, NE “s  
Beacon avenue and North- |
ampton, “s  
Beacon avenue and Parker, (|N |
Brown avenue and South, SE |
Brown ave., between Laurel |
and South streets, Ws ss |
Bh, front of city hospital, |W  |
Brooks ave., south of No.  |East se |
Brown avenue and Laurel, SE  |
Bridge and Jackson, SE Mathews, |
Bridge and Adams, SE jHol. F.H. |
Bridge and Sargeant, NE |
Bridge and Cabot, SE |
Bridge and Dwight, NE |
Bridge and Lyman, NW poi td
Bridge and Canal, SW |
Bridge, feet from Cabot, West  aly
Canal and Summer, South {|
Holyoke, |Mathews, |
Canal and Jackson, SW |Hol. F. H. |
Canal and Adams, |
Canal and Appleton, iN |
Canal and Appleton, end of |
Deane Steam Pump Co.’s |
lot. NE |Pratt Cady|  |
Canal, feet north of bridge |
to Excelsior Paper Co., |Fast |Hol. F. H. |
Canal and Lyman, NE  ]
Canal and Hamilton, /|Mathews, |
Canal and Cabot, iN |
Canal and Cabot, lol. F. H.  
Canal and Lyman, N. Flat, |
ne

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
VG/LiLliolL lo
  a
oe Elole Eleiz
LOocaTION. av Make. Cc, oye iefie
 alg gisls
i Fi+)s/ je  
| yp —o—
Canal, at St. Rail. Station, Hol. F. H. |
Canal and Summer, SW |
Canal and West, SE (|Mathews,  |
Canal, corner Mosher, Hol. F. H. |
Canby and Hampden po
(steamer), SE  ro |
Cabot, at H. W. P. Co’s mill, |S oe |
Cabot, at Valley, east of |
Summer street, NS |
Cabot and Bh, NE aloha,
Cabot and Oak, NE oe  Po
Cabot, west side of first (oF
level canal, North |
Cabot and Bond, NE  |
Cabot and East, SW |
Cabot, near Forestdale Ceme- dl |
tery, NS “s Loy
Carlton street, South  |
Carlton and Chapin, Cor P|
Crescent st., feet south |
of Appleton street, East |§Mathews, |
Center and Canal, SW Hol. FH.  |
Center and Mosher, Sw ve |
Chestnut and Prospect, SE /Mathews, by
Chestnut and Fountain, SW ol. F. H. |
Chestnut and Lyman, NE ,
Chestnut and Hampden, SW Pf
Chestnut and Snffolk, NW os  oF, |
Chestnut and Appleton, NE ss  |
Chestnut and Essex, oe |
Chestnut and Cabot, NW |
Chestnut and Franklin, NE ee
Chestnut and Hampshire,  ‘| |
Commercial and Franklin, NW |
Commercial and Jackson,  |
Chapin street, feet north |
of Allyn, West |Mathews, |
Chapin and South, NW Hol. F. H. :
Chapin and Washington, NW Yi .
Clark and Northampton, Pratt Cady |
Clark and Ball streets,  !
Columbus avenue and North- |
ampton street, |
Columbus avenue, ft. w. |
from Northampton street, ,
| CF

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
o|/ islo|l le
 ulSisia|mia
eo Sle |SiBiels
LOCATION. nd Make, wd ph Heel eet Tall Te
Ss” Sis|£\s/is/s
 +i/+ |S |o|o/o
Columbus ave. (Springdale),
at end of street, Hol. F. H. ]
Cottage ave., at end of pipe,  ]
Dwight and East, NW  
Dwight and Center, IN |
Dwight and West, NW |
Dwight street, at Beebe &
Holbrook Paper Co., South  l
Dwight street, at Wauregan
Paper Co., South |
Dwight street, at No.  South |
Dwight street, at Hampden
park, geval ss |
Dwight and Elm, NE |Mathews, |
Dwight and Elm, SW j|Hol. F. H. |
Dwight and Pine, Ww ue |
Dwight and Linden, NE  /|Mathews, .
Dwight street, opp. Whiting |
avenue, North |
Dwight and School, NW ae |
Dwight and Clinton avenue, Hol. F. H. ]
Dwight street, w. of No.  ‘South as |
Dwight and Pleasant, Sw |
Dwight and Nonotuck, Zz |
Dwight and Parker, Pratt Cady |
Division, corner High, Hol. F. H. |
Ely and Bridge, Mathews, |
Ely and Center, sa ]
Ely and West, North Hol. F. H. |
East and Ely, IN ‘Mathews, |
East and Mosher, SW \Hol. F. H. |
East street, near Munn |
Baush, East i.
East and Hamilton, SE Mathews, ni
East street, front of  East /Hol. F.H. |
Elm and Fountain, SE |
Elm street, feet south of |
Lyman. ‘West ue |
Elm and Hampden, /Mathews, L) ,
Elm and Snffolk, |Hol.F.H.  |
Elm and Appleton, NE  |
Elm and Essex, IN |
Elm and Cabot, INE rr |
Elm and Hampshire, IN ss |
Elm and Sargeant, Pratt Cad) |

Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
| vi vi
is lsl 
bo  slaleic
LOCATION.  Make. |\oji ",;?;e
  lg gisla|gis
oO  'S S/d 
  |
| || |
Elm and Highland, Pratt Cady an  
Elm and Gates, NW ol. F.H. [|  ); |, |
Elm street, feet north of Pi !
South street, West ne |
Essex and Linden, NW  |
Essex and Maple, IN Lio |
Essex and Poplar, ‘Pratt Cady fy oy
Fountain and Front, 'N .Hol. F. H. |
Front and Hampden, IN WwW lL) |
Front and John, IN |Mathews,  |
Front and Dwight, IN |
Fairfield avenue, opposite the |
Green, North Hol. F.H.  |
Fairfield avenue, at Dean’s |
house, North  |
Franklin, corner Magnolia, il,
Gates, corner Chapin, bY  
Gates, half way between lo,
Chapin and Elm streets, poo |
Grant, corner Meadow, i
Grant and Brooks, Cor ‘s |
Gilman and Ball. Cor ol  
Gilman and Northampton, i‘Cor “. pot] !
Glen street and Brown ave., [IN |
Glen street, feet east of  pot
Northampton street, ‘North “* |
Hampshire and Sycamore, NE )
Hampshire and Commercial, ‘Chapman,   
Hampshire and Commercial, ‘N iHol. F. H. |
High and Fountain, NWRoo: UF,
High street, frontof No.  ‘East ve |
High street, front of No.  East  Pot |
High and Hampden, SW Mathews, |
High street, frontof No. East Hol. F.H. a
High and Dwight, SE  Pp |
High street. front of No.  IWest se |
High and Suffolk, NE  
High and Appleton, NE ve |
High street, front of No. West oe |
High and Essex, SE  |
High and Cabot. SE os Po
High and Hampshire, SE .. |
High and Oliver, West !
High and Hampden, SE we fj
High and Hampden, NW J
|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
he ei  loe a)
es \s/  
LocaTIOn. Make. alolol/sizls
ae Sl\flsisisi\s
o Slt ld/s Siw
High and John, NE |Hol. F. H.  
High and Franklin, ve  
High and Jackson, NW  |
Highland avenue and Pearl, |N oe  
Hampden street, at alley of
High and Maple, South |
Hampden and Maple,  |
Hampden street, at alley between Chestnut and Maple, |South “* |
Hampden and Chestnut, vs |
Hampden and Chestnut,  |
Hampden street, at alley be- |
tween Chestnut and Elm, j|South vs ]
Hampden and Elm, SW |
Hampden and Walnut, NE Bl |
Hampden and Pine, INE |
Hampden street, at alley be- |
tween Elm and Walnut, South os pot
Hampden and Elm, SE  |
Hampden street, feet east po
of High, ‘Alley os |
Hampden street, at intersec- eo |
tion of Prospect street, ly
Hampden st., opp. No.  (North  oe |
Hampden and School, Sw |
Hampden and Taylor, ‘South |
Hampden and Franklin,  
Hampden and Howard, NW er
Hamilton and Bridge, SW “s i] |
Hamilton and Park, NE  lt |
Hitchcock Lane, North ws|
Hitchcock Lane, in front of ge |
Merrick’s, NS xz |
Highland, frontof Hallisey’s, NS |
Highland and Walnut, ‘Cor )} wl atty
Harrison, ft. s. of No.  ‘East “s |
House of Providence, \North ia |
House of Providence, ‘South  |
John street, High alley, |N |
Jobn st., at BowKer’s stable, South |
Jackson and Race, INE |Mathews, |
Jackson street, feet west ae |
of  level canal, North|Hol. F.H.  |
Jackson, bet. Main and Race, North |
James and Main, NE vs |
. |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
 Lio
es g' 
LOCATION. ac Make. Cles|aie
(Ee gig gjalgle
od wit O'S  .)
a
James and Temple, Pratt Cady  
Linden and Hampden, SE dol. F. H. |
Linden street, south of Sar- |
geant, |
Linden and Hampshire, SE cs  
Linden aud Cabot, NE |} |
Locust and Sargeant, SE |
Locust and Franklin, NE  li !
Locust and Essex, Pratt Cady  
Locust and Cabot, vs ]
Lynwood. avenue and St. |
James avenue,l
Lynwood avenue and Shaw- !
mut avenue, Cor Hol. F. H. i]
Lynwood ave. and Dwight. Cor |
Lincoln and Howard, West oe
Lincoln and Pleasant, NW. os !
Lawler street, front of G. |
W. Hill's, \North Pp
Lawler st., at end of pipe, West te  
Laurel street, feet west of |
No.  ‘North :
Laurel and Willow, ss |
Lyman street, feet west a
of Summer, North 'Mathews, |
Lyman and East, SW oe |
Lyman st., front of No.  South sé |
Lyman st., front of No. South: es |
Lyman street, feet east of |
 st level canal, South dol. F. H. |
Lyman street, feet east |
of High, Alley  ,
Lyman and High, SW |
Lyman and Front. NW |
Lyman and Bh, iS en ee
Mosher and Bridge, NW Mathews, Poo
Mosher and West, SE fol. F. H. LU
Mill street, near Appleton, 'East 
Main st at Carter's stable, |West !
Main street, feet south of |
Dwight. ‘West Mathews, |
Main street, feet south of Do
Cross, West Hol, F. H. |
Main and Appleton, ss |
Main and Spring, SE Mathews, i
| Loy

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
| pO i)  v
S welS(S\ziwis
be Flololzif iz
LOCATION. ih) Make. alololielnieoe
 Si\sisisieis
an w[+]o]/o/o]o
a)  |
Maio and Cabot, Ww ol. F. H. |
Main and Hamilton, swift |
Main and Sargeant, SW  |
Main st., northeast corner of |
Warp mill, ‘West oe |
Main and Adams, ISE|
Main and Jackson, SE |
Main street, opp. Holyoke |
Paper Co., West Mathews, |
Main street, feet south of |
Beebe Webber, West “s |
Main and South, ““ |
Main street, feet from |
South street, West Hol. F. H. |
Main street, feet from |
South street, West fl
Main street, at Ferry road, $e |
Main street, at J. J. Prew’s, |West l
Maple and Prospect, SE  
Maple and Fountain, NE l
Maple aud Lyman, NE |
Maple street, at No.  East |Mathews, |
Maple and Hampden, SE /Hol. F. H. |
Maple and Dwight, iN |
Maple and Suffolk, SE ri ol |
Maple and Appleton, 'S ‘Mathews, I
Maple and Cabot, IN |lHol. F. H. |
Maple and Sargeant, ‘SW |
Meadow, corner Main, ]
Maple and Jackson, |
Maple st., ft. s. Franklin, East |
Miller ave.. ft. south of |
Hampden, West |
Miller ave., at end of pipe,  
Morgan st., feet from |
Northampton, Pratt Cady ;
Newton st., feet south of
Appleton, SE (Hol. F. H. |
Newton and Essex, NE l
Newton st., feet north of
Cabot, West  
N and Charles streets, SE l
Nonotuck and Hampden, 
Nonotuck and Fairtleld ave., |N  
Nonotuck and Lincoln, 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
oj; o
S  Slole|ztlElz
LocaTION. es) Make. alelol/Slels
o” siclele ej
O rein nerves Gare Gare nie ae Mery
: onican] fe  ]
Nonotuck and Highland ave.,  
Nonotuck, north end of pipe
line, Pratt Cady ]
Northampton street, at John
Thorpe’s, West |Hol. F. H.  
Northampton and Highland
Terrace,  l
at C. A. Corser’s, West vs  
at C. Hastings’, West 
at C. H. Hey wood’s, Fast “s ]
at A. D. Street’s, West  l
at W. S. Loomis’, West. 
at R. M. Fairfield’s, East  
Northampton and Lincoln, West 
at Mrs. H. S. Dickerman’s, |Eaat |
Northampton and Hamp.
den, West  |
Northampton and Morgan, Pratt Cady  
Northampton and Dwight, West |/Hol. F. H.  
Northampton and St. James
avenue, Pratt  Cady |
at J. L. Cochran’s, West jHol. F. H. ft. northof J.Cleary’s, |East ve |
Northampton street, at G. P. ]
Ellison’s, East ve |
  feet north of Ball's
Corner, Fast 
at Ball’s Corner, ES  
at Dexter hose house, East “s feet north of Carlton |
street, West l
Northampton and South, SE Mathews, |
at C. E. Torrance’s, West |Hol. F. H.  
at Horace Brown's, West |
at Oscar Ely’s, West |
at Whiting’s farmhonse, East l
Northampton and streets, |Cor 
Northampton and  Hamp- |
shire Terrace,  
O’Connor ave.. opp. No.  West  
Oak and Dwight, SW  |
Oak and Suatlolk, “* |
Oak and Appleton, ss |
Oak and Essex, IN Ww os |
Oak and Hampshire, IN |
| XY :

" REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
ae ae 
S wlSl\Sl\elale
. mM oS LOCATION. is Make. [@i/ojo}/sS|a/s
  slels|s|s|s
ad wleld/s/dloa
Oak street, feet north of |
Sargeant, West Hol. F. H. I
Oliver street, feet east
of High, Alley 
Oscar and Peltiah, Cor. as l
Park and Cabot, Mathews,  
Park and Sargeant, NW se  
Park and Jackson, NW 'Hol. F. H. l
Park street, opp. No.  East Mathews, l
Park and Canal, NW as l
Pine and Prospect,  l
Pine and Lyman, SW |
Pine and Hampden, IN ]
Pine and Appleton, INE |Hol.F.H. |
Pine and Suffolk, iS Ww |
Pine and Essex, IN Mathews, |
Pine and Cabot, SW |Hol. F. H. |
Pine and Hampshire, as ut |
Pequot and Bowers, aa |
Prospect and High, SE |
Pleasant st., feet north of |
Allyn, West Mathews, |
Pleasant and Hampden, NW Hol. F. H. |
Pleasant street, at No.  West ve ar
Pleasant street, at No.  West  s)
Pearl st., north end of pipe, er l
Pearl and Fairfield avenue, SW os J
Pearl and Lincoln, la] |
Pearl and Allyn, Mathews,  |
Pearl and Hampden, Hol. F. H. |
Plymouth and Commercial, |N ss i) aa
Papineau and Main, NW |
Parker and Hampden, |SW Ae ci of  
Prew and Temple, Pratt& Cady; |
Railroad street and Dwight, SS Hol. F. H.  |
Railroad st. and Appleton, as eal |
Railroad street and Suffolk. NW at |
Race,atintersectionof Main, |West |
Race and Dwight. NW Mathews, |
Race, in front of Judd Paper ao ,
Co.’s shop. Pratt Cady, |
Race and Cross. NE Hol. F. H. |
Race and Appleton, SE |
Race and Spring, SE rok.
Race and Cabot, tt ue |
| |
Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD. 
ov ®
ts e|  |e
mS H( /'/slze ls 
LOCATION. sc Make. al/S|/v}s|@ be
  sigisid/s js
nd wit oS rs
|
Race and Hamilton, NE /|Mathews, |
Race and South, NE ss  
South street, bet. Nos. |
and  North |Hol. F. H. |
South street, bet. Nos.  
and  North |
Sargeant and Race, NE |
Sargeant, bet. Ist and  |
level canal, |North “s |
Sargeant, e. of Commercial, North |
Sargeant and Chestnut, IN |
Sargeant and Bh, IN oe ,
Sargeant and Linden, INE  ly }
Sargeant and High, INE |Mathews,  
Sargeant aud Sycamore, Hol. F. H. |
Summer and Ely, |
Summer and Cabot, SW |
Summer and Hamijiton, IN  |
Summer and Jackson, SW |
St. James and St. Jerome Py
uvenues, bo
St. Jerome, corner Sargeant, oe :
Suffolk, corner High, tl |
Suffolk, east from High, ts |
, osuttolk, at alley bet. Maple |
and Chestnut, Pratt Cady |
Suffolk, between Chestnut |
and Elm, |] |
Suffolk, between Elm and by
Walnut, |
Sutfolk, between Walnut and |
Pine, se ]
Suffolk, between Pine and |
Bh, |
Suffolk, between Bh and |
Oak, oe  
Sutfolk, between Oak and |
Linden, ‘“ |
Suffolk and Sycamore, North |Hol. F. H. |
Springfleld road, near Brig- |
ham’s house, Pratt Cady ct |
Springfield road, opp. Day la
farmhouse,  .
Springfield road, opp. Mt. |
St. Vincent,  |
poh

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
be B@/LIZloi®lo
 O{|O |x —
Bsie 
Location.  Make. alol/ol}s|/ ais
 Sisis|/ 
o tlw ][o]o jo
Springtield road, opp.Charles
Markert’s, Pratt Cady l
Springfield road, at Griffin’s
corner,  
Springfield road, at boundary
of West Springfield and |
Holyoke, Hol F. H. l
Springfield r’d and Ferry r’d,  |
Springdale avenue, at east
end of pipe, os |
Taylor st., front of No.  |West |
Taylor and Lincoln, SW /|Mathews, |
Taylor st., front of No.  East |Hol. F. H. |
Thorpe st., near Hampden
(steamer connection), West ve :
Union and Fountain, SW |Mathews, |
Vernon, at Main, NW Hol. F. H. |
Vernon street, North |
View street, ft. east of |
Taft’s house, South '
View st. and Brown ave., |
Washington and Harrison, vs |
Washington and Charles, South os |
Washington and street, ue |
Washington and N’hampton, |N |
Worcester place and Com- |
mercial, |
Walnut and Lyman, SW /Mathews,  
Walnut street, No.  West |Hol. F. H. |
Walnut and Hampden, SE oe |
Walnut and Dwight, SE  |Mathews, |
Walnut and Suffolk, SE ]
Walnut and Appleton, NE /dol. F, H.  
Walnut and Essex, ae I
Walnut and Cabot, NE |
Walnut and Hampshire, NE ]
Walnut and Sargeant, l
West, at Canonchet park, ss  
Willow street, bet. Brown
avenue and Northampton, |North  
Willow and Brown avenue, IN ]
Total,    

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
 -inch, one out, .  -inch, two outs,  -inch, two outs, .  -inch, three outs,  -inch, one out, ..  -inch, three outs, , I
 
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CIIY
OUTSIDE OF CITY HYDRANTS, TO DATE.
 stand-pipe outs,

  single hydrants,

  double hydrants,

  triple hydrants,

 -arm hydrants,

  cellar hydrant,

  mills using perforated pipe sprinklers,

  mills using automatic sprinklers,

  fire pumps at mills.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
TABLE H.
METERS,

LOcaTION. SIZE. No. ee
Albion Paper Co., in |Worthington
Albion Paper Co., in |Crown
American Pad Paper Co., in |Worthington
Barlow Manufacturing Co., in |Crown
Bushnell Langelier, in |Crown
Beebe, Webber Co., in| |Worthington
Beebe Holbrook Co., in gtroo |Crown
Baush Son, C. H., in !Crown
Brown Keough, in |Crown
Boston Maine R. R.,  in |Worthington
Brightside School, in Crown
Browne, M. C., in Hersey
Cabana, I. N., in iWorthington
City Hospital,  in ;lhomson
Church of Perpetual Help, in Hersey
Church of Perpetual Help, in Ball Fitts
Chadwick Plush Co., in Hersey
Church of the Rosary, in Worthington
Conn. River Lumber Co., th in Worthington
Conn. River Paper Co., in| |Worthington
City Foundry, in ro  |Crown
Church Precious Blood, in Hersey
Clough, James A., in ‘Crown
Crocker Mauufacturing Co.,  in Worthington
Chase Cooledge, in Worthington
Corser, Charles A., in ‘Crown
Connor Bros., in Crown

| !

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

Location. SIZE. No. peenenen
Connor Bros., in |Worthington
Chemical Paper Co.,  in |Hersey
Chemical Paper Co., in {Worthington
Chemical Paper Co., in|  j|Crown
Chemical Paper Co., in  ,Crown
Chemical Paper Co.,  in  |Crown
Coghlan Steam Boiler Works, in {Worthington
Coburn Trolley Track, in  -x |Crown
Davis, C. S., in |Hersey
Dillon, John, in| |Worthington
Delaney, John, Estate, in |Thomson
Delaney, John, Estate, in xv |Crown
Delaney, John, Estate, in |Crown
Deane Steam Pump Co., in |Hersey
Davis, C. B. J. A., in| |Crown
Dickinson, R. Paper Co., in |Worthington
Dickinson, R. Paper Co., in |Worthington
Ely, Watson Son, in |} rogor |Crown
Excelsior Paper Co., in |Worthington
Episcopal Church, im |Worthington
Essex Paper Co.,  Im  |Crown
Farr, H. M., in ‘Crown 
Farr Alpaca Co., in| |Hersey
Farr Alpaca Co., in |Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co., in |Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co.,  in |Thomson
Farr Alpaca Co., in |Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co., in |Worthington
Franklin Paper Co., in |Worthington
Flanagan, T. J., in Crown
Fenton Dunn, in Crown
Fitch, Geo. I., in \Crown
Gates, Seymour E., in |Thomson
Gingras, A. F., in ery
George C. Gill Paper Co., in ;Worthington
George C. Gill Paper Co., in Hersey

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
LOCATION. SIZE. No. -| DESCRIPIION.
|
oe |
George C. Gill Paper Co., in |Crown
Germania Mills,  in; |Worthington
Graves Kinney, in |Worthington
Goddard Machine Co., in |Hersey
Hicks Co., in |Hersey
Holmes, Frank L., in |Hersey
Hassett, E. W., in |Crown
Hobbs, S. J., in |Worthington
House of Providence Hospital, in |Hersey
House of Providence Hospital, in |Thomson
House of Providence, Mt. St. |
Vincent, in. |Worthington
Hampden Glazed Paper Co., in  |Crown
Hadley Co., spool shop, in |Worthington
Hadley Co., boiler, in| Worthington
Hadley Co., bleachery, in, |Crown
Hadley Co., mill,  in Worthington
Hadley Co., winding room, in’ |Worthington
Holyoke Belting Co., in, |Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co., in; |Worthington
Holyoke Water Power Co., in \Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co., in ;Worthington
Holyoke Water Power Co., in —o— Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co., in [Worthington
Holyoke Water Power Co., in| 'Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co., in ‘Crown }
Holyoke Water Power Co., in |Hersey
Holyoke Steam Laundry, in |Worthington
Holyoke Street Railway Co., in Crown .
Holyoke Street Railway Co., in Worthington
Holyoke Machine Co., in ,Worthington
Holyoke Warp Co,  in |Duplex
Holyoke Warp Co., in |t  \|Crown
Holyoke Envelope Co., in  iCrown
Holyoke Paper Co.,  in |Worthington
Holyoke Paper Co., in Worthington

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
|
LocaTION. SIZE. No. Descmno.
|
Holyoke Paper Co., in Worthington
Holyoke Furniture Co., in| |Crown
Jenkins Rubber Co, in gtroxr |Crown
Judd Paper Co., in |Hersey
Keating Wheel Co., in |Crown
Laporte, M. J., in |Crown
Laliberty, Albert J., in |Crown
Laramy, Eugene, in Hersey
Linden Paper Co., in {r  ,|Crown
Linden Paper Co., in |Hersey
Linden Paper Co., in  |Crown
Lyman Kellogg Co., in |Hersey
Lyman Mills, im |Crown
Lyman Mills, In |Worthington
Leavitt, B., *# in |Thomson
Mass. Screw Co., in |Hersey
Methodist E. Church, in’ |Thomson
Merrick Thread Co.,  in |Worthington
Merrick Thread Co., ini |Worthington
Merrick ‘Thread Co., in |Worthington
Merrick Thread Co., in |Worthington
Merrick Thread Co., in |Crown
Merrick Thread Co., in |Hersey
Merrick I.umber Co., tr in {Worthington
Massasoit Paper Co., in |Worthington
Mackintosh,  ). Sons Co.,  in |B. F.
Mackintosh, D. Sons Co., in |Hersey
Mackintosh, D. Sons Co., In |Crown
Murray, P. J., In |Thomson
Nash, Swift Co., In  |Crown
Nelson, Morris Co.,  in 'Crown
Nonotuck Paper Co., in |Worthington
Nonotuck Glazed Paper, in |Hersey
Nonotuck Paper Co., in: |Worthington
Nonotuck Paper Co., in |Thomson
Norman Paper Co., in |Hersey

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
LocaTION. SIZE. No. |DESCRIPTION.
Norman Paper Co., |Hersey
Newton Paper Co., in| |Hersey
Newton Paper Co., rt in |Worthington
National Blank Book Co., in |Hersey
‘Octo, Frank, in |Hersey
Paper City Laundry, in  |Crown
Parsons Paper Co.,  in  Wor
Parsons Paper Co., in |Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., +in |Worthington
‘Parsons Paper Co., in —o— /|Crown
‘Parsons Paper Co., iN ICrown
Parsons Paper Co., in {Crown
Parsons Paper Co., In| |Union Rut’ry
Parsons Paper Co.,  iN {Crown
Parsons Paper Co., in |Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., in —o— |Crown
Parsons Paper Co., in {Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., in |Worthington
Parsons Paper Co., in {Worthington
‘Perkins, B. F. Son, in |Hersey
Prentiss, Brcoks Co., In {Worthington
Prentiss, Geo. W. Co., in| |Crown
Riverside Paper Co., in |Worthington
Riverside Paper Co., In  |Crown
Riverside Paper Co., in thomson
Ranger, Casper, in rogo  |Crown
Standard Machine Co., in |Crown
Steele, F. C. Co., in |Thomson
Sheehan Heffernan, in |rt (Crown
Seymour, Henry Cutlery Co., in B. F.Piston
Skinner Sons, William, In |Unton Kot'ry
Skinner Sons, William,  In |Thomson
Skinner Sons, William, in |Worthington
Skinner Sons, William, in |Crown
‘Skinner Sons, William, in |Crown
- Skinner Sons, William, in |Worthington

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
|

LocaTIon. SIZE. No. DESCRIPTION.
Springfield Blanket Co.,  in |Worthington
St. Jerome Church, in| |Crown
Second Baptist Church, in |Worthington
Springfield Provision Co., In |Crown
Sacred Heart Church, in |Worthington
Second Congregational Church, in |Crown
Sears Co., L., in |Crown
Sears Co., L., Mm! |Hersey
Tilley Co., John, in |Worthington.
Valley Paper Co.,  in |Worthington
Valley Paper Co., im:  |Crown
Wall McCormick, in |Thomson
Whiting Paper Co.,  in  |Crown
Whiting Paper Co., in |Worthington
Whiting Paper Co.,  in |B. F.Rot’ry
Whiting Paper Co., in |Crown
Whiting Paper Co., in |Worthington
Whiting Paper Co., in! Worthington
Whiting Street Estate,  in Worthington
Whiting Street Estate,  in Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, in Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, in ‘Worthington
Whiting Street Estate, Jn iWorthington
Welch O’Connor, tin Worthington:
Wauregan Paper Co., in ,Worthington
Whitmore Manufacturing Co., in  Crown
West, Stone Co.,  in ‘Crown
Whitcomb, M.H, in  \Crown
Wilhelm Derichs, in ‘Crown
Y.M.C.A,, in Crown

. |
———— hs -- -- |: ——
Total,  |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
SUMMARY OF METERS IN USE.
es es es Ds ees (es
-|.fal.f).f)./MAKE.  slsajofs 

q qa cs 

‘Tle de [oT fe [|  

ooke od is] ae) H
Worthington,  
Crown, .....  
Ball Fitts, piston,  
Ball Fitts, rotary,  
Ball Fitts, duplex, I
Hersey, ....  
Thomson,. ...  
Union,. ...  
Total, |  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE I.
INVENTORY OF STOCK, TOOLS, ETC., DECEMBER .
PIPE.
a  -inch, . feet
  -inch,   feet
  -inch, . feet
  -inch,.   feet
  -inch, . feet
 -inch, . feet
  -inch, . feet
 -inch, , feet
 Y-inch,  . feet
  -inch, . feet
 -inch, ..   feet
SLEEVES.
 -inch, ,  -inch, . I
 -inch, ,  -inch, ;  -inch, ,  
OFFSETS.
 -inch, . I
 -inch, ,  -inch, .  
PLUGS.
 -inch, , I
 -inch, ,  -inch, .  -inch, .  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
DOUBLE BRANCHES.

 -inch, , I
 -inch, , I

  -inch, , I

 -inch,   -inch, ;  -inch, . -inch, . -inch, . -inch, ,  

SINGLE BRANCHES.

 -inch, . -inch, . -inch, woo -inch, ,  

BENDS.

 -inch  we.  

 -inch ; S

 -inch  .  -inch  ,  -inch  Lo  -inch  ,  -Inch  .. ,  

COCKS.
 -inch stop and waste,  

 -inch main stop,  

 -inch main stop,  

 -inch main stop,  

 -inch main stop,  

  -inch main stop, Lo.  

CROSSES.
 -inch, .  -inch, ,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TEES.

  -inch, .  -inch, ;  
ELBOWS.

  -inch, .  -inch, ; -inch, .  -inch, .  
REDUCERS.

  to  -inch, . I
  to  -inch, - to  -inch, , to  -inch, . to.  -inch, , I
  to  -inch, .  
HYDRANTS.
 -inch double, .  -inch two-way steamer outlet, a
GATES.
 -inch, . I
 -inch, . I
 -inch, .  -inch, .  -inch, .  -inch, ,  
Gate boxes, .  

| UNIONS.
 -inch, .  -inch, wo  -inch, , -inch, .  -inch, .  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
SUNDRIES.

  derrick, saw vise,

  steamer and fixtures, grindstones,

  tapping machines, oil stone,

  taps, bench drill,

  drills, wood chisel,

  fire-pots, bit stock and bits,

t kettle, snow shovels,

  ladles, stoves,

  chisels, coal sifter,

  hammers, horses,

  sets, business wagon,

  gasket irons, sleighs,

  long set, IO pairs pipe tongs,
  sledges, horse brushes,

  iron bars, barn brooms,

  Stilson wrenches, hay cutter,

  Coe wrenches, die stocks and dies,
‘  gate wrenches, pairs pipe cutters,
  hydrant wrenches, hand saws,

  stop-cock wrenches, ft.  block tin pipe,
  pairs hydrant tongs, picks,

  hand force pumps, shovels,

  tool chest, axes,

t tape line, grub axes,

  screwdrivers, brush scythes,

I auger, Iron rakes,

  iron squares, brush hooks,

  oil cans, tons of coal,

I ice scraper, desks, :

  ice Cutter, water pails,
  large pipe cutters, wheelbarrows,

 lanterns, boats,

  truck wagons, dif pulley,
‘  harnesses, pair platform scales,
‘  horse blankets, forge,

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
  buggy, feet fire hose,
  lounge, feet  -inch hose,
  table, anvil,
  bookcase, solder irons,
  currycombs, iron wedges,
  shop brooms, watering troughs,
  forks, tons of hay,
  pipe vises, tons bedding.
I small vise,
METERS ON HAND.
WORTHINGTON.
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One $-inch, No. o- One  -inch, No.  
One r-inch, No.  
One r-inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
CROWN.
One $-inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One tr-inch, No.  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Qne r-inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One r-inch, .- No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, No.  
One  -inch, .- No.  
THOMSON.
One  -inch, .- No.  !
One  -inch, No.  
HERSEY.
One  -inch, No.  !
  One r-inch, No.  
* One rg-inch,  No.  
s TRIDENT.
a One r-inch, No. BALL AND FITTS.
x One  -inch, .- No.  
ke One  -inch, No.  
BE One  -inch, No.  
oA One  -inch, No.  
One r-inch, No.  
‘i One  r}-inch, No.  ,
UNION.
. One  -inch, No.  
: One  -inch, No.  
: One  -inch, No.  
| One $-inch, .- No.  !
) One  -inch, .- No.  
| One  -inch, os No.  :
One  -inch,. No.  :
One  -inch, No.  :
One  -inch, No.  
—

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE J.
SHOWING AVERAGE NUMBER AND DESCRIPTION OF WATER TAKERS
NOW REGISTERED.
Almshouse, . |
Alpaca mill, .  
Business colleges, ,  
Boarding school, ,  
Beer pumps, .  
Baths, ;  
Barber shops, .  
Boarding houses, .  
Brass foundry, , I
Blank book manufactories,  
Blanket mill, , I
Krass window furnishings, I
Blacksmith and carriage shops,  
Boiler shops, ,  
Beer and soda bottlers,  
Bakeries, . at
Billiard rooms, ,  
Bit and brace works, , I
Bed comforter manufactory, I
Bicycle manufactories,  
Belt shop, .. .  
Bowling alleys, , I
Box shops, .  
Band room, . I
Banks, ,  
Book binderies, ,  
Cattle, .  
Cotton mills, ,  
Churches, .  
Church organs, ,  
Cafe, , I
Cigar manufactories, .  

\
}
REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  !
Colored cotton, . I
Cotton warp mills, ; I
Cutlery works, , I
Cement pipe works,I
Cemeteries, ,  
Club rooms, ,  
Confectionery manufactories,  
Carpet cleaning, ; ,
Cotton thread and twine manufactories,  
Chemical laboratory, , I
City hall, ;  
Convents, .  
Carriage repositories, 
Drug stores, ,  
Dentists, .  
Dining rooms, ,  
Dressmakers, .  
Dandy roll manufactory,  T
Dye works, ,  
Envelope manufactories,  
Engines, .  
Eating houses, .  
Elevators, .  
Express companies, +  
Flectric light station, I
Electric car station, . I
Electric power house, {
Families, ;  
Fish markets, ,  
Fourdrinier wire works,  
Fountain and rotary sprinklers,  
File works, . I
Fire engine houses, ,  ]
Furniture warerooms,  
Glazed paper works, ,  
Greenhouses, .  
Gray nuns’ schools, :  
nm

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Gate house, . I
Gas house, . I
Gasometers, .  
Grist-mills, .  
Gymnasiums, .  
Hose, .  
Horses, .  
Hairdressers, .  
Harness shops, .  
Houses of Providence,  
Hotels, . I
Halls, . t
Iron founders, .  
Ice dealers, .  
Kindergarten schools,  
Lodging rooms, .  
Livery stables, .  
Lead pipe works, , I
Lithographers, . I
Laundries, oo,  
Lumber yards, .  
Meat markets, .  
Machine shops, .  
Motors, .  
Offices, .. .  
Opera houses, ,  
Pool rooms, .  
Paper box manufactories,.  
Paper knife works, . I
Paper mills, ,  
Paper pad manufactories,  
Public library, , I
Post office, . I
Police court, . I
Planing mills, .  
Pork packing houses, .  
Printing offices,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Photograph rooms, . |
Plumbers, .  
Plush manufactory, . I
Passenger and freight depots,  
Public drinking fountains,  
Parks, .  
Public bath-rooms, ,  
Reading rooms, .  
Restaurants, . t
Reed shop, . I
Rubber works, . I
Round house, .- ,  
Stores, .  
Soda fountains, .  
Shops, .  
Saloons, .- . 
Steam pump manufactory, I
Steam plate works, , I
Shooting gallery, ; I
Silver platers, .  
Schoolhouses, , 
Stand-pipes, , 
Silk mills, ,  
Silk stocking manufactory, I
Spindle shop, , I
Saw-mill, . I
Sealing wax manufactory, I
Sausage manufactories,  
Stone yards, ,  
Screw mill, . I
Steam and gas fitters, .  
Storehouses, .  
Street sprinkling carts, TS
‘Yanks for glasses, .  
‘Tailor shops, ;  
‘Tumbler washers, .  
‘Tin shops, ,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Telegraph offices, ,  
Telephone office, I
Testing flume, , I
Trolley track and roller manufactory,  
Urinals, ;  
Undertakers, te,  
Vegetable sprinklers, »  
Water closets, ,  
Wire mill, ; I
Wire mattress works, .—.. Lo I
Wire weaving, ,  
Watering troughs, ,  
Woolen mills, ,  
Wood yards, ;  
Water Power Co., , I
Young Men’s Christian Association, I
TABLE K.
SUMMARY OF STAND-PIPES.
Appleton street near Deane Steam Pump Co., I
Appleton street near Main, I
Ball’s corner near Bh, I
Brown ave. near South street, I
Bh street near Appleton, I
Bh street near Hampden, I
Bridge street cor. Canal (Ward  ), I
Bridge street cor. Canal (South Holyoke), I
Bridge street south of Sargeant (South Holyoke), I
Bridge street near No.  . \
‘Canal street near Lyman, I
Center street cor. East Dwight, I
Center street near Lyman, ft
Chestnut street cor. Sargeant, .. I
Chestnut street cor. Cabot, I
Chestnut street cor. Prospect, I

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  

Cabot street near Race, I
City yard—Commercial, I
Cabot street near Holyoke Water Power Co.’s mill, I
Columbus ave. at Northampton, I
Dwight street near Nonotuck, I
East street cor. Hamilton, I
Elm street at the shop, I
Essex street near Maple, I
Front street cor. Fountain, I
Hampden street cor. Nonotuck, I
Hamilton street cor. Canal, I
High street at city hall, I
Jackson street near Holyoke Paper Co.’s Mill, I
Main street near South, I
Maple street near Hampden, .” I
Maple street near South, T
Meadow street near Main (Springdale), I
Northampton street near Home School, I
Northampton street near Heywood’s, Loo, I
Northampton street near Tice’s, I
Northampton street near South, I
Nonotuck street near Fairfield avenue, I
Park street cor. Coghlan’s Boiler Works, I
Pine street cor. Dwight, I
Pine street cor. Hampshire, I
Race street at F. C. Steele’s, I
Railroad street cor. Appleton, I
School street near Dwight, I
Sargeant street near Maple, I
Sargeant street near Park, I
St. Jerome avenue near Sargeant street, I
Taylor street near Hampden, I
- Washington avenue cor. South street, I
Willow street near Laurel, I
 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
HEIGHT OF WATER AT GATE-HOUSE AT WRIGHT
POND.

January: tst, ft. in.; gth, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  d,  
ft. in.

February:  th, ft.;  th, ft. in.;  oth, ft.;  th,g ft. in.

March:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  oth, ft. in.;  th,
  ft.

April:  rd, ft. in.; roth, ft.  n.;  th,  ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.
May: rst, ft.  in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th,
  ft. In. |
June:  th, ft. in.; rath, ft.  in.; roth, ft. roin.;
 th, ft. in.

July:  rd, ft. in.; roth, ft. in.;  th, ft. in;

 st, ft. in.

August:  th, ft. roin.; th, ft.;  st, ft. in.;  th,
  ft. in.

September:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.;
 th, ft. in.

October:  nd, ft.  in.; goth, ft.;  th, ft.;  oth, ft.
  in.

November:  th, ft. in.;  th, rr ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th, rr ft. in.

December:  th, ft. in.;  th,  ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th, ft.
Average height for the year, ft. in.

HEIGHT OF WATER AT WHITING STREET RESERVOIR.

January: rst, ft. in.; gth, ft.  n.;  rd, ft. in.;
 oth, ft. rz in.

February:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  oth, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
March:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.;  th,
  ft. in.
April:  rd, ft. in.; roth, rg ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.
May: rst, ft.;  th, rg ft. ro in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.
June:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.; gth, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.
July:  rd, ft. in.; roth, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 st, ft. in.
August:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  st, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.
September:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, rg ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.
October:  nd, ft. ro in.; oth, ft. in.;  rd, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.
November:  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  oth, ft. in.;
.  th, ft. in.
December:  th, ft.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th,  ft. in.
Average height for the year, ft. in.
STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE
WATER WORKS, DECEMBER .
Population by school census of .
Date of construction,  .
Works owned by the city.
Source of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, three and one-half
miles from the city, two mountain streams and storage reservoir.
Mode of supply—gravity.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
FINANCIAL.
RECEIPTS. )
From consumers :—
A. Water rates fixed, .
B. Water rate meters,  
C. Receipts for water from private con- ————
sumers, . 
From public funds :—
D. Fire purposes, . 
E. Public buildings,  
F, Total receipts for water, 
G. Service pipe,  
H. Sale of bonds,  
I. All other sources,  
J. Gross receipts, . 
K. Cash balance, Jan.  
} EXPENDITURES.
AA. Management and repairs, 
BB. Services and repairs,  
CC. Running expenses for  
DD. Interest on bonds,  
EE. Total maintenance, . 
FF. Sinking fund,  
GG. Materials, labor, etc.,  
HH. Cash on hand,  
Il. Balance to construction,  
| 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
CONSTRUCTION.
Balance, , 
JJ. Extension main lines,  
Kk. Meters,  
LL. Hydrants,  
MM. Reservoirs,  
NN. Land purchases,  
OO. Southampton supply,  
$ 
W. Net cost of works to date,  
X. Bonded debt,  
Y. Value of Sinking Funds, Dec.  
CONSUMPTION.
 Population,  school census,  Estimated population on line of pipe,  Estimated population supplied,  Estimated total number of gallons consumed
for the year,  Passed through meters  Passed through meters ree
 Estimated average daily consumption, gallons,  Gallons per day to each inhabitant, Gallons per day to each consumer ),  Gallons per day to service tap,  
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and cast iron.
 From one-half inch to twenty inches.
 Extended feet small and feet large.
 Discontinued, none
’  Mains,  -inch and upwards,  miles, feet
 ‘Temporary mains, less than inches, miles, feet

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
 Total length of distribution, miles, feet
 Number of leaks,  Cost of repairs per mile, . Hydrants added,  Hydrants now in use (public),  
and private hydrants, see Table G
after Summary of Hydrants.
 Stop gates added,  Stop gates now in use, see foot note, Table E,  Stop gates less than  -inch, I
 Number of blow-off gates,  Range of pressure on main at office, per day
and night, to pounds. Main street,
per day and night, to pounds.

 Stand-pipes added,  Stand-pipes now inuse,.  
SERVICE.

 Cement, rubber-lined, enameled, cast-iron

and lead lines.

 From five-eighths to  -inch size of service.

 Leaks,  Extended (estimated), ,; feet,  Discontinued,  Total now in use (estimated), feet,  Services added,  Number now in use,  Average length of service, feet,  Average cost of service, . Meters added,  Meters discontinued,  Meters repaired,  Meters now in use,  Motors and elevators discontinued, —.  Motors and elevators added, t

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  Motors and elevators now in use,  Gates repaired, I
 Hydrants reset,  Hydrants repaired,  Sidewalk boxes replaced, none
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER WORKS FROM
THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO DECEMBER .
WATER COMMISSIONERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE WORK—ELECTED
BY THE TOWN OF HOLYOKE.

Wn. B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected March
  term expired February .

Joun Devaney, elected March term expired February .

Joun E. Cuase, elected March resigned March,
 .

Dennis Hiccins, elected March term expired February .

Joe RussELL, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ;
term expired February .

J. P..BuckLanp, Clerk of the Board, elected March ;
term expired February .

L. P. BosworTH, successor to John E. Chase, elected March
  term expired February .

C. W. RANLET, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.

ENGINEERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS.

Messrs. SHEDD SawYER of Boston, Mass., consulting engineers. E. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.

Davis ELLSWORTH, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis, May,
 ... |

MOSES STEVENS, pipe inspector.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
WATER COMMISSIONERS ELECTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL.

J. P. BuckLanp, elected February term expired February .

Dennis Hiccins, elected February term expired January .

James G. SuitH, elected February deceased July ro,
 .

J. A. Suttivan, elected February term expired
January .

James F. Attyn, elected February term expired
January .

C. H. Heywoop, elected July term expired January
  .

TimoTHY MERRICK, elected January term expired
January .

MAURICE Lyncu, elected January term expired January .

James E. DELANEY, elected January resignation accepted January .

Moses Newton, elected January term expired
January .

James J. Curran, elected January  resignation accepted
February .

Martin P. Conway, elected January .

Cuarces D. Cotson, elected January .

Joun J. Suttivan, elected January .

OFFICERS OF THE HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.

Moses STEVENS, superintendent, appointed February ;
term expired April resigned.

Danie. Heywoon, collector, appointed February  term
expired October sucded by I. M. Bolton.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
E. M. BOLTON, registrar, appointed October term
expired June resigned.
E. P. Cuark, registrar, appointed July resigned
January .
| J. C. SuLLivaN, registrar, appointed January .
Joun D. Harpy, superintendent, appointed May .
E. M. Botton, inspector, appointed July  service ter‘minated March .
J. F. CLeary, inspector, appointed March  g,  .
'T. E. SuLtivan, inspector, appointed March g,  .


ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER .
KS ES AN |
  )
O  Ak i: ie
LPR PORE AY
Oy WE Soy
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
Grirritu, AxtELL Capy Co.,
 .

:
|
Digitized by Google

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
OFFICE OF FIRE COMMISSION,
December .
To the Honorable Mayor and City Council.

GENTLEMEN :—Your Board of Fire Commissioners take great
pleasure in presenting their report for the year ending December
  .

The Board organized February by the election of
Charles J. Newcomb as chairman and John Hildreth as secretary.

Your Fire Commissioners have tried to introduce into the department any improvement that would make it more efficient in the
saving of life and property, and the record of the past year speaks in
no uncertain tone of the success of their efforts and of the excellent
discipline that exists in our department. The zeal and skill shown
both by chief and men in their dangerous vocation is appreciated by
your Commissioners, and we feel sure that our citizens generally
will be proud that our departmeut has more than maintained its
previous high standing.

This has been remarkable year in the department work, |
which will be shown by the following figures: We have had  
fires and alarms against last year, an increase of about per

 cent., and the total damage to both buildings and contents was only
$ of this amount  was covered by insurance,
leaving net loss of only an average loss of only
$  om each alarm. The aggregate value of the property endangered by fire was more than one million and three-quarters of

@
  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
dollars, and the amount of insurance on the foregoing was more
than one million of dollars. We feel that the petition of our local
board of underwriters for lower rates ought to be successful, and we
have reason to believe that substantial reduction will be made in
our rates this year.

We have been obliged to exercise the greatest economy in
running the department, on account of the small amount appropriated for the repair and contingent account, viz.: The
average amount expended on this account for several years has been
over and, as the department has had to keep pace with
the rapid growth of the city, it is larger and necessarily costs more to
run. There seems to be some misapprehension as to what is covered

, by the term “repair and contingent account.”’ It really means the
cost of the department (outside of salary of members and officials) -—
the feed of horses, purchase of all supplies of every kind, maintenance of fire alarm telegraph, and purchase of fire alarm boxes, and
all horses and apparatus, the lighting of all engine houses (this
should properly come under fuel and street light account), the shoeing of thirty-two horses, and thousand other expenses necessary
for the proper conducting of fire department.

You will notice that we were obliged to expend this year
on repair and contingent account and as we were
determined not to spend more than was appropriated for
our use, we could not use the money that was given us to buy
hose for that purpose, as the money was needed to buy feed, etc.,
so this year we have bought no hose, but this condition should not
exist. The balance of the money needed we were obliged to take
from pay of members and we got that by failing to fill the vacancies
in the department. Some of the apparatus needs very thorough
repairing, and as the lives of the men depend on the apparatus
being in good condition, these repairs must be undertaken the
coming year, and we trust, gentlemen, that you will provide for
the need of our department as fully as may be; and we promise
you that we will exercise the greatest care in the spending of the
same.

We earnestly ask that our citizens will co-operate with us
in giving the department apparatus the right of way when an

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS,  
alarm of fire has been rung, and we especially ask all bicycle riders
not to race with the apparatus, as we have had several very narrow.
escapes from serious accidents from this dangerous practice.
Some criticism has been made on the rapid driving of fire apparatus when going to fires, and your commissioners feel that all possible
care should be exercised by the drivers, but it must be remembered,
that the delay of even minute may cost some human beings the
loss of their life (as in recent fire, if the department had been
one minute earlier two lives would have been saved), and
when you feel inclined to criticise the driver for the speed he
is making, remember his mission may be one of life and death, as
indeed it often is; and that fireman when he hears the call of
duty does not know whether it calls him to save life or to lose his
own. Many are the deeds of heroism performed by our firemen,
of which the citizen in general knows nothing your commissioners
know more about this and feel proud to have such body of men
at their command, and commend both chief and men for their
excellent work during the past year.

Engineer Walker of Steamer No. has fitted up the various
houses with automiatic door openers, which have proved great
help in getting out quick.

We make the following recommendations :—

First, that as soon as it can be done new house should be
erected for headquarters. The present location is very dangerous, and
 not suitable for an engine house, but is an excellent one for business. Now is the time to buy lot.

Second, we renew our recommendation that new house be
erected near the new High School, and that first-class chemical be
kept here. There is much valuable property in this vicinity.

Third, that double tank combination hose and chemical be
purchased and placed at the Highlands. chemical located at this
point would be of great service, as most of the fires in this district
could be controlled by good chemical.

Fourth, we trust your appropriations will permit of the appointment of from three to five permanent men, which would give us
sufficient men to handle the apparatus without having to wait for

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
the arrival of the call men, and thus very often much loss could be
avoided.

Fifth, we recommend that the old engine No.  be replaced
with new first-class engine of modern make, as this engine is too
old to be kept in the department much longer.

 Sixth, we also trust that you will appropriate the sum of 
for the purpose of putting in new ten-circuit repeater for fire
alarm service the one we have now is carrying too heavy lines. It
will cost us the above sum to make the change, which should be
done in the near future.

Seventh, we also recommend that the fire limits be extended.

Eighth, we also recommend that the Board of Public Works be
instructed to investigate the change made in the method of heating
Ward One Engine House, with view to ascertaining the desirability of making similar change in the rest of the engine houses.

We have held twenty-three formal meetings of the Board and
many informal ones during the past year, and in presenting this
report we desire to thank all city officials with whom we have been
brought in contact, for their uniform courtesy to us as Board, and
we would especially thank the Board of Water Commissioners for
their generous treatment of us in the matter of hydrants; and for
the test of the merits of the various makes of hydrants which they
are now making. This test will be of great value to us, as it will
show beyond question which is the best hydrant for fire service.

MANUAL FORCE.

The permanent force of the department has not been
increased at all during the past year, and consists of the following :
Chief, superintendent of fire alarm telegraph, two engineers of
steamers, one stoker, one foreman of chemical engine, one
engineer of chemical, one foreman of Hook and Ladder No. ,
one tillerman, fourteen drivers, and six permanent men.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  

Total number of permanent force,  
The call force consists of

Assistant engineers,  

Engineers of steamers,  

Stokers of steamers,  

Hose and laddermen,  

Substitutes,  

Total force,  
APPARATUS.

We regret to have to report that some of the apparatus in the
department is in very bad condition and needs extensive repairs,
which could not be done this year, because the appropriations
made this year would not permit of it being done, but to leave it
undone this coming year would be very unwise.

We again draw your attention to the engine No.  it is very
old engine, and should be replaced as soon as possible with more
effective piece of fire apparatus.

The apparatus now in active service consists of six steam fire
engines, one double tank chemical engine, one combination hose
and chemical wagon, seven two-horse hose wagons, one aerial
truck, two hook and ladder trucks, five exercise and supply wagons,
one chief’s buggy, one superintendent of fire alarm wagon and
one sleigh.

HORSES.

We have thirty-two horses in the department and most of
them are in fine condition, but in spite of the best of care the life
of horse in the fire service is very short, and we must expect to
purchase more the coming year, as we cannot tell what day one of
our best horses may be disabled, and sick or lame horse is of no
use in the fire department. We have been obliged to purchase
seven new horses during the past year, and we have given pair of
good horses (for their work) to the Pauper department, believing
it to be to the best interest of the city to do so.

'

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
HAY AND FEED.

The supply of hay and feed is lower than usual, and we must
soon purchase more.

HOUSES.

The engine houses are in very good condition, and will not
need much repairs the coming year.

We thank your honorable Board, and especially your honorable
Board of Public Works, for the very liberal treatment you have
shown us in the matter of repairs. The work done has been done
both promptly and thoroughly.

We would call attention to the change in the method of heating
which we have adopted in Ward One engine house. We have connected the heating system with the new Silsby heater, which keeps
the water hot in the fire engine, and we find that with very little
more coal than we used to heat the water in engine we can heat the
engine house, and this will result in the saving of fifty per cent. in
the amount of coal used in this house.

We again recommend the putting on of double windows on
some of the houses.

HOSE.

We have not purchased any hose this year, for the reason that
while you appropriated  for that purpose we did not dare to
use it, for the reason that the amount you appropriated for repair
and contingent we felt sure would not be sufficient to maintain the
department, and we have been obliged to use the money appropriated for hose to pay expenses of carrying on the department. We
ought to purchase at least feet the coming year.

The amount in the department is as follows :—

Headquarters, - feet

House No.  . “

House No.  . “

House No. . “
e

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
House No. . feet
House No.  . “
House No.  . *
  feet
FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

The fire alarm telegraph is one of the most effective of modern
-appliances for fighting fire, and we have given this branch of our
work our most careful oversight during the past year. We have
tried to make this department perfect, and, while we may not have
sucded in doing that, we believe that we have one of the best fire
alarm services in the State, if not in the country. The lamentable
delay that occurs in some of the large cities before giving the alarm
‘could not happen in this city. We have covered the city as fully as
possible with fire alarm boxes, so that there is no excuse for delay.
We realize more and more that the only successful way to fight fires
is to get there quick, and we urge that as soon asa fire is discovered
the alarm be rung.

We have put in nine new boxes during the past year, which are
numbered and located as follows:  Suffolk near Pine;  ,
Brightside  corner Beacon avenue and Nonotuck  corner
Lincoln and Williams streets;  Springfield road on Corser
tract;  corner Brown avenue and View street;  new high
school;  corner St. Jerome avenue and |)wight street;  ,
‘corner Sargeant street and St. Jerome avenue, and we have put up
six miles of new wire during the past year.

The service consists of five circuits and one six-circuit repeater,
ninety-eight non-interfering fire alarm boxes (most of which have
been fitted with strong current protectors during the past year, which
protect boxes from electric light and power wires and from lightning), sixty-three owned by the city and thirty-five by private firms.
There is on hand in this department one-quarter mile of wire,  
pole brackets, and locust pins. ‘The property in this department is as follows :— |
Strong current protector board, 
Storage battery,  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Case and switchboard, 
  milesof wire,   tower bells and strikers,  
I Six-Circuit repeater,   mechanical gongs, in Engineers’ houses, .. telegraph poles,   Gamewell signal boxes, ..   Gamewell signal boxes, ..  -inch gongs and indicators,   indicators without gongs,   two-pin cross arms,  
One-quarter mile wire,   pole brackets,   locust pins,   dead man,   insulators,   stop clocks,   horse, .  
Wagon, .  
Harness, etc., .  
Cutter sleigh, , pike poles, cant hook, crowbar, shovels,  
Total, - 

FINANCE.
The financial condition of the department is as follows :
Appropriated at the beginning of the year for use of the fire
department the following sums :—

Salaries, . 
Pay of members,  
Water, .  
Hose, .  
Repair and contingent,  
Total appropriated for year  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
Brought forward from last year for new engine contracted for and to be paid for out of appropriations for  - 
Ditto for hose contracted for   
Received from town of South Hadley,  
$ 
The expenditures are as follows :—
Salaries, . 
Pay of members,  
Water, .  
Hose, .  
Hose contracted for last year and paid for out of
| last year’s appropriation,  
Engine contracted for and paid for out of last year’s
appropriation,  
Repairs and contingent,  
Total expenditures, . 
Balance on hand,  
SALARIES PAID IN DEPARTMENT.
Chief engineer, per year, . 
Superintendent of fire alarm telegraph, per year,  
Secretary of commission, per year,  
First assistant engineer, per year, |
Second assistant engineer, per year,  
Two permanent engineers of steamers, each, per year, 
Foreman of chemical, per year,  
Foreman of H. L. No. per year,  
Engineer of chemical, per year,  
Drivers and permanent men, per year,  
Three engineers of steamers, per year,  
One engineer of reserve steamer, per year, ..  
One stoker of reserve steamer, per year,  
Stokers of steamers, per year,  
Permanent men in department (first year), per year,  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
FIRES AND ALARMS.

During the past twelve months there have been one hundred
and eighty-two fires and alarms, of which eighty-five were rung in
from signal boxes, four were false alarms and seventy-eight were
still alarms, and there were nineteen fires where no alarm was
given. One of the alarms was for fire in Willimansett.

The total amount of property endangered by fire was as
follows :-—

Buildings, $ 
Contents,  
$ 

Damage to buildings, , 
Damage to contents,  
$ 

Insurance paid on buildings, . 
Insurance paid on contents,  

Total, , 
Loss above insurance, , 
Average net loss on fires and alarms,  

The foregoing figures speak for themselves and need no comments from us, but we particularly desire to call the attention of our
local board of underwriters to the above facts, and urge that they
insist upon reduction in our insurance rates on account of excellence of fire department. Boy and matches and careless use of
kerosene are responsible, as usual, for large number of fires;

"greater care should be exercised in the use of these articles.
The causes of the different fires and alarms are as follows :—
Defective chimney, .  
Sparks from locomotive,  
Struck by lightning, ,  
Lamp exploded,  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
Children playing with matches,  
Supposed to be incendiary,  
Gas jet set fire to curtains,  
Set by boys, ,  
Oil stove exploded, .  
Spontaneous combustion,  
Unknown, .  
Kerosene lamp upset, I
Caught from gas jet, j
Soot in chimney on fire, II
Overheated stove, ;  
Gasolene stove on fire,  
Set by electric light wires,  
Set by fire crackers,  
Matches in vest pocket, I
False alarms, ,  
Hot ashes, ;  
Window decorations caught from gas jet, I
Fire in Willimansett, I
Match dropped in waste basket, I
Overheated furnace pipe,  
Man smoking set fire to bed clothes,  
Lamp set fire to curtains,  
Overheated flue set fire to floor, I
Soot drooped into cellar, I
Thawing water pipe, I
Lantern exploded, . I
Nest in lantern caught fire, I
Cigar dropped into sawdust, I
Overheated stove set floor on fire, I
Horse kicked lantern over, .
Gas jet set goods in window on fire, I
Gas jet set door on fire, I
Woman’s dress caught from gas stove,  
Alcohol lamp upset, I
Kerosene stove upset,  
Careless use of matches, II

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Gasolene stove exploded,  
Plumber’s fire-pot set fire to roof,  
Cigar stub dropped in cellar, oo, I
Fireworks set fire to curtain, I
Benzine caught fire from match, I
Clothes drying on rack,   
Burning pot of lard, I
Boiling floor wax, . I
Paper caught from furnace, .. I
Pipe in coat pocket, .  
Awning caught from cigar stub, I
Balloon set fire to roof, I
Filling lighted gasolene lamp, I
Candle and child in closet, I
Cat upset lamp, . I
Match stepped on, . I
Mice and matches, . I
Total number fires and alarms,  
The number of fires and alarms during each month in the year
. have been as follows :—
December, ,  
January, .  
February, ;  
March, .  
April, ,  
May, ,  
June, ;  
July, ,  
August, ,  
September, .  
October, ,  
November, .  
Total number,  

|

Digitized by Google

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
. PERMANENT FORCE.
John T. Lynch, Chief Engineer.
John Castle, Superintendent of Fire Alarm Telegraph.
Patrick J. Riley, foreman Hook and Ladder No.  .
Timothy Harrington, driver Steamer No.  .
James J. Sullivan, driver Steamer No.  .
.. Albert Tardy, driver Steamer No.  .
Daniel J. Lynch, driver Steamer No.  .
Daniel Moynihan, driver Steamer No.  .
William F. Gilbert, driver Hook and Ladder No.  .
John J. Casey, tillerman Hook and Ladder No.  .
James O'Grady, first assistant Hook and Ladder No.  |
Daniel J. Gorman, foreman Chemical No.  .
John Wynn, engineer Chemical No. tr.
James Crowley, Hook and Ladder No. r. .
Austin F. Mulqueeny, driver Hose No.  .
James Lynch, driver Hose No.  .
Daniel J. Brennan, permanent foreman Steamer Co. No.  .
Samuel D. Loomis, foreman Steamer Co. No.  .
Patrick Hurley, permanent foreman Hose No.  .
John Welch, driver Hose No.  .
Daniel Hogan, driver Hose No.  .
P. T. Kennedy, permanent stoker Steamer No.  .
James Bready, driver Hose No.  .
John Long, driver Hose No.  .
James J. Long, permanent foreman of Hose No.  .
C. H. Knapp, engineer Steamer No.  .
Spare driver, G. F. Orrell, permanent.
Louis LaBreque, engineer Steamer No.  .
William West, permanent man, driver Hose No.  
Total, men.

CHEMICAL NO. I.
Daniel J. Gorman, foreman.
John P. Wynn, engineer.

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
ROLL OF MEMBERS AND DATE OF APPOINTMENT.
STEAMER NO.  .
Joseph Irwin, machinist, foreman, Essex, August .
John P. Bleasius, first assistant, Dwight, August .
I. J. Humes, clerk and treasurer, carpenter, Dwight, March  ,
 .
C. E. Waite, wine clerk, John, February .
P. J. O’Connor, cutler, ros Walnut, December .
John L. Rae, wire drawer, Bh, March .
James Waters, paper maker, High, June .
William A. Wood, overseer, Essex, March .
Frank A. Jopson, paper maker, High, February .
Joseph K. Menard, clerk, Union, August .
William Carey, machinist, High, February .
SUBSTITUTES.
Daniel Moriarty.
| Patrick Calling.
Engineer, F. A. Shelly, Newton place.
Stoker, W. P. Bidwell, Newton place.
Driver engine, Timothy Harrington.
Driver hose, Austin F. Mulqueeny.
STEAMER NO.  .
Daniel Brennan, foreman, permanent man, engine house, April  ,
 .
J. J. Hallisey, first assistant foreman, thread dresser, Main,
August .
Ed. Whalen, clerk, blacksmith, Race, February .
T. F. Downing, Newton, September .
John Flynn, paper maker, Main, July .
John Burke, paper maker, Sargeant, May .
Dennis Downing, molder, Main, March .
John Brennan, Envelope Co., Race, August .

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
Thomas J. Rourke, Main, March :
Timothy McGrath, loom fixer, Bond, June .
Edward Ahearn, Main, molder, June .
SUBSTITUTES.
W. P. Brady, beamer, Sargeant, February .
J. E. Lajoie, machinist, Cabot, March .
Engineer, George Walker, Park.
Stoker, Ignatius Schirch, Park.
Driver engine, James J. Sullivan. |
Driver hose, James Lynch.
STEAMER NO.  .
Samuel D. Loomis, foreman, permanent man, appointed September
  .
M. N. Snow, paper maker, Allen, May  o,  .
. J. A. Cleveland, first assistant, wheelwright, Taylor, September
  .
Walter P. Wing, painter, Hampden, November .
C. W. Read, clerk and treasurer, millwright, ro Taylor, July .
L. F. Jones, carpenter, Hampden, July .
W. B. Gero, paper maker, Pleasant, July .
A. P. Howes, yeast man, Thorpe avenue, July .
C.A. Abbott, teamster, Allyn street, May .
C. D. Read, clerk, Taylor, September .
S. E. Gifford, Taylor, May .
W. S. Little, tinsmith, Lincoln, June .

Maurice Whalen, paper maker, Beacon avenue, July .
George A. Ellison, expressman, Hampden, February .
SUBSTITUTES.

John F. Page, carpenter, Hampden, November .
John J. Kane, Hampden, August .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Permanent engineer, Charles H. Knapp, engine house. ,
Stoker, Lyman F. Thorpe, Hampden.
Driver engine, Albert Tardy, engine house.
Driver hose, William West, engine house.
STEAMER NO.  .
F. D. Moynihan, foreman, painter, Fountain, February .
J. H. Lee, first assistant, blacksmith, Newton, February .
L. Blackmer, second assistant, paper maker, engine house, February .
J. J. Byrnes, clerk and treasurer, clerk, Elm, July .
W. H. Strain, paper maker, Bower, November .
P. J. Crowley, paper maker, Ely Court, August .
C. R. Evans, yardman, Grover, August .
James Durnin, paper maker, engine house, August .
John Ryan, carriage maker, Center, March .
. SUBSTITUTES.
T. H. Martin, paper maker, West, May .
Joseph A. Tucker, plumber, Pine, May .
Engineer, Maurice Moynihan, Engine House No.  .
Stoker, E. R. Train, carpenter, Main, August .
Driver engine, Daniel J. Lynch, engine house.
Driver hose, John Welch, engine house.
STEAMER NO.  .
Frank Feather, foreman, tinsmith, Washington avenue, August
  .
G. W. Hills, clerk, molder, Lawler street, September .
J. A. Hood, pattern maker, South, March .
Thomas E. Begley, bookkeeper, Brown avenue, September  ,
 |

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  

A. P. Cadieux, machinist, Brown avenue, April .

George E. Smith, loom fixer, Brown avenue, September .

Martin J. Conway, paper maker, engine house, February .

Mathew B. Begley, painter, Gates, September .
Permanent engineer, Louis LaBreque, engine house.

Permanent stoker, P. T. Kennedy, engine house.

Driver engine, Daniel Moynihan, engine house.

Driver hose, Daniel Hogan, engine house.

SUBSTITUTE.
Thomas F. Moriarty, Elm, May ro,  .
HOSE COMPANY NO.  .
P. J. Hurley, foreman, permanent molder, engine house, March
  .

Charles Ryan, first assistant, rodman, Race, February .
I. Hegy, clerk, carpenter, Sargeant, March .

L. Blair, Jr., treasurer, operative, Main, August .

S. Perron, loftman, Park, February .

J. Whalen, paper maker, Race, February .

Thomas Dooling, beamer, Jackson, February .

W. S. Watt, box maker, Main, February .

Dennis Healy, laborer, Sargeant, May :
James J. Marrin, clerk, Main, September .

Driver, James Brady, engine house.

HOSE COMPANY NO.  .

James J. Long, foreman, permanent man, engine house.
P. J. Lynch, first assistant, mason, Chestnut, August}  .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
D. F. Nelligan, mason, Lyman, September .
P. J. Cronin, clerk and treasurer, fireman, High, April .
C. J. Doherty, wire drawer, Walnut, August .
P. F. Lynch, mason, Chestnut, January .
Dennis Shea, teamster, Maple, May .
T. J. Lynch, machinist, Maple, November .
M. P. Lynch, paper maker, Lyman, February .
M. J. Casey, tender, Fountain, October .
Frank S. Lynch, mason, Chestnut, February .
John J. Prentiss, screw maker, Dwight, February .
J. F. Rohan, Hampden, January,  .
SUBSTITUTES.
Jerry Sullivan, apprentice, Chestnut, February .
John Thompson.
Driver, John F. Long, engine house.
ENGINE NO.  .
Engineer, Thomas Ryan.
Stoker, P. J. Lyons.
HOOK AND LADDER NO. I.
Patrick J. Riley, foreman, permanent, High, August .
James O’Grady, first assistant, permanent man, High, August
  .
W. D. Bunnell, clerk, printer, Suffolk, October .
James Crowley, permanent man, engine house.
Frank N. Bligh, painter, John, September .
W. O. Judd, teamster, Suffolk, August .
Robert McDonald, plumber, Walnut, October .
J. A. Embury, millwright, Walnut, February .
F.  ). Burtt, shipping clerk, Suffolk, December .
John J. Kelliher, polisher, Dwight, November .

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
William Ross, miller, Beacon avenue, December .
F. H. Rideout, teamster, Newton place, July .
SUBSTITUTES.
Michael O’Rourke, paper maker, Fountain, June .
Ed. Cassidy, loftman, Newton, September .
Driver, William F. Gilbert, High. |
Tillerman, permanent man, John J. Casey, High.
HOOK AND LADDER NO.  .
B. F. Abbott, foreman, soap maker, Howard street, May .
S. J. Wolohan, first assistant, machinist, Hampden, May,  .
J. R. Worthington, clerk and treasurer, Pleasant, July,  .
F. E. Ferris, carpenter, Taylor street, March,  .
E. Potvin, paper maker, Beacon avenue, May,  .
J. M. Ricker, electrician, Pleasant, March,  .
W. H. Delaney, painter, Beacon, July,  .
V. V. Goddard, mason, Dwight.
SUBSTITUTES.
Fred Spidel, grinder, Dwight.
HOOK AND LADDER NO.  .
William Murray, foreman, ice dealer, Chapin, February .
Enos Smith, first assistant, loftman, Brown avenue, February
  .
John F. Begley, clerk, painter, Gates,  .
August Baush, machinist, Brown avenue, February .
D. Murray, Jr., carpenter, Chapin, March .
Gc xander Tatro, paper maker, Brown avenue, October .
orge Spamer, meatman, Brown avenue, December .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Walter Hague, weaver, Highland, March .
R. C. Burkhardt, grocer, South, March .
SUBSTITUTES. |

James Fitzgerald, operative, Allen street, March .
James Murray, Chapin, February .

CONCLUSION.

In conclusion we desire to thank your honorable Mayor and

City Council for all the courtesies shown us, and we trust that your |
successors may make liberal appropriations for the department, so
that the things that are necessary for the maintenance of first- |
class fire department may be procured, and we sincerely hope that
all of the appropriations intended for this department may be made
at the beginning of the year, so that we may know just how much
we have to carry on the work of the department for the year, and
we promise to exercise the greatest care in spending of the same.
We desire also to thank the officers and men of the police department for their very efficient co-operation.

CHARLES L. NEWCOMB, Chairman.

D. J. LANDERS.

M. J. LAPORTE. :

|
ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE .
, OF
: HOLYOKE, MASS.
  FOR THE
YEAR  .
SES ae ,
(EE Glas |
p pre:
CRs eeoae ty)
eres
HOLYOKE, MASS, :
GrirFitH, AXTELL Capy Co.,
 .

,

|

{

|
@

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
OFFICE OF City TREASURER,
Horyoke, Mass., December .
Lo the Honorable, the Mayor and Aldermen. :

GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the city ordinances, have
the honor of presenting to you my fifth annual report as City Treasurer, it being the report of the fiscal year  and showing
receipts, expenditures, cash on hand, the amount of money borrowed during the year, statement of indebtedness of the city, and
a schedule of the real estate owned by the city.

The total receipts for the fiscal year  including the balance
on hand of  on December were .

The total expenditures were leaving balance
on hand of  on December .

I have borrowed during the year as follows:
$  in anticipation of the revenue from the taxes, at the
following rates of interest, viz. :

$  for nine months at per cent.

  for eight months at per cent.

  for five and one-half months at per cent.
  for two and one-fourth months at per cent.
  for four months at per cent.

  for four months at per cent.

On the funded debt  was borrowed as follows:
$  per cent. years’ water fund loan, sold at premium
of  school loan, years’ per cent., sold ata

  REPORT OF CIT TREASURER.
premium of  per cent. ro years’ municipal
loan, sold at premium of  years’ per cent.
municipal bond, sold at premium of and  per
cent. years’ registered municipal bonds, sold at premium of
$ making the amount realized in premiums during the
year, .
Respectfully submitted,
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,
City Treasurer.
RECEIPTS.
The amounts received from various sources and credited
sundry accounts are as follows :—
City property, $ 
City Hall fund,  
Contingent,  
Corporation tax,  
City engineering,  
Fire Department, R.&C.,,  
Highways Bridges,  
Interest, ,  
Loans, ‘‘ Temporary,”  
Municipal,  ..  
High School,  
Water fund,  
Licenses, .  
National bank tax,  
Pauper department,  
Paving, oo,  
Parks, oo, Lok  
Police, co.  
Premiums on Water bonds,  
School bonds,  
Municipal bonds,  
Interest on water bonds, IIL. 

REPORT OF CITY. TREASURER.  

Schools, . 

Sewers and Drains,  

Sewer Assessment, Index   

Index   

   

  

E.O.& .,  

Sidewalks,  

Street watering,  

State and Military Aid,  
Sidewalks taxes of   

 gt,  

  

  

   

Taxes of  .  

 .  

 ,  

.  .  

 ,  

Whiting Street fund,  

Total receipts, , 

Balance on December  

$ 

EXPENDITURES.
The amounts disbursed and charged to sundry accounts are as
follows :—

Almshouse addition, , 

Almshouse furnishing,  

Assessors’ Department,  

Board of Health,  

City Engineering Department, 

City Property Department,  

City Hall fund,  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Contingent, $ 
Contingent,-Board of Public Works,  
Corporation tax,  
County tax,  
Fuel and street light,  
Fire Department, R. C.,  
Fire Department, hose,  
Fire Department, water,  
Fire Department, pay of members, ..  
Fire Department, salaries,  
Highways and bridges,  
High school (new),  
High school furnishing,  
Heating and ventilating Nonotuck street school,  
Interest, .  
Loans, temporary,  
Loans, municipal,  
Licenses, one-fourth to State Treasurer,  
Military aid,  
National bank tax,  
Parks, ,  
Pauper, Lo,  
Paving, ;  
Police, ,  
Public library,  
State aid, .  
State tax, .  
Schools, .  
Sidewalks, .  
Sidewalks refunded,  
Sewers and drains,  
Sewer assessments, E. O. and S. S., refunded,  
Salaries, .  
Street watering,  
Soldiers’ relief,  
St. Jerome avenue and Canby street,  
Water Commissioners,  ,Q 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  Widening Northampton street, 
Widening High street,  
Ward One schoolhouse,  
Whiting Street fund,  :
Sinking Fund Commissioners,  
Total payments, , 
Balance on hand December  
}  —
STATEMENT OF NOTES AND BONDS PAYABLE, CONSTITUTING THE GROSS DEBT.
Notes maturing in :—
April  one at Per cent., 
September  one at per cent.,  
Notes maturing in :— 
April  one at per cent., 
September  one at per cent.,  §, 
November  one at per cent.,  
$ .
BONDS.
  years, per cent., municipal, issued for general
purposes, due Sept. $ .
  years, per cent., municipal, issued for general
purposes, due Oct.   years, per cent., water bonds, due July years, per cent., municipal bonds, for general
purposes, due July   years, per cent., municipal bonds, for general
purposes, due April  .
  years, per cent., municipal bonds, for general
purposes, due July I  .

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
  years, per cent., municipal bonds, due June  :

 .  years, per cent., municipal bonds, due Dec.  ,

 .  

(Both issues of for general purposes.)
  years, per cent., refunding bonds, issued for R.

R. stock, due Oct.   years, per cent., Holyoke and South Hadley

bridge bonds, due Sept.   years, per cent., sewer bonds, due May  ,

 . years, per cent., refunding bonds, issued for R.

R. stock, due July   years, per cent., sewer bonds, due Oct.  ,

 , years, per cent., Holyoke and Willimansett

bridge bonds, due June   years, per cent., school bonds, due June  ,

I . years, per cent., school bonds, due July  ,

 , years, per cent., school bonds, due March  ,

 . years, per cent., water bonds, due Jan.  

‘Total funded debt, . 
BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER .
DR. .

Holyoke water works, . 
Holyoke Westfield R. R. stock,  
Cash, ,  
Municipal Sinking Fund Commission,  
Holyoke Water Commission,  
Real estate, I, 
(J. C. Keough) Collector of Taxes ),  
(J. C. Keough) Collector of Taxes ),  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
Holyoke and South Hadley bridge, 
Betterments Brooks and O’Connor avenues,  
Sewer Assessments, Index ),  
Sewer Assessments, Index ),  
Elmwood O. S. sewer system,  
Holyoke and Willimansett bridge,  
City Treasurer, Sewer Assessment, 
Sewer Assessments,   
James C. Keough, sidewalk tax, 
James C. Keough, taxes,   
James C. Keough, sidewalk tax, 
James C. Keough, sidewalk tax, 
Municipal loan,   
Holyoke School loan,   
Municipal loan,   
Municipal loan,   
Municipal loan,   
Loan,   
Loan,  .  
$  
BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER .
 CR.

Holyoke Water bonds, . 
Holyoke Westfield R. R. bonds,  
Municipal bonds  years),  
Municipal bonds  years),  
Bills payable, ..  

Appropriated for Sinking fund for municipal

bonds,   |

Whiting Street fund,  
Municipal Sinking fund accumulation,  
Fire Department, pay of members,  
Fire Department, hose,  
Parks, ,  
Interest, .  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Bills payable, temporary loan, 
Water bonds, Sinking fund,  
City of Holyoke,  
Holyoke and South Hadley bridge bond,  
Overlayings,  
Elmwood O. S. sewer bond,  
Elmwood O. S. sewer assessment,  
Holyoke and Willimansett bridge bonds, ..  
Appropriation Sinking fund for H. W. bridge
bonds,  
City Treasurer, sewer assessment, 
City Hall fund,  
High School,  
Furnishing school,  
Sewer assessment,   
Sidewalk tax,   
Sidewalk tax, oo,  
W. Haney, tax,   
James C. Keough, tax,   
Appropriation South Hadley bridge bond,  
Furnishing Almshouse,  
Assessors’ Department,  
St. Jerome avenue,  
Municipal bond,   
Holyoke School bond,   
Municipal bond,   
Uncollected Sewer Assessment,    
Municipal bonds,   
Sinking Fund School bond loan,  
Municipal bonds,   
Almshouse addition,  
Heating and ventilating Almshouse addition,  
$  
Attest :
C. T. PLIMPTON, Auditor.

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE.
VALUED BY THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS IN  .
SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND LAND.
Dwight and East street school, 
Dwight and Bridge street school,  
Lyman street school,  
West street school,   ,
Park street school,  
Hamilton street school,  
Sargeant street school,  
Springdale school,  
South street school,  
Carlton street school,  
Ingleside school,   ;
West Holyoke school,  
Back street school,  
North Chestnut street school,  
School street school,  
Appleton street school,  
South Chestnut street school,  
New High School,  
Nonotuck street school,  
Elm street High School,  :
$ 
ENGINE HOUSES AND LAND.
Mount Tom engine house, . .
Engine house Main street,  :
South street engine house,  
Emerald engine house,  
. High street engine house,  
Hampden street engine house,  
Springdale engine house, ..  
$ 

  REPORT OF CI TREASURER.
Almshouse and farm, , 
Elmwood sewer land, , 
Gravel pit, ,  
City Hall, ,  
City yard and buildings,  
Pest house and farm,  
$ 
PARKS.
Canochet park, $ 
Goghlan park,  
Hamilton park,  
Germania park,  
Prospect park,  
Hampden park,  
Ewing park,  
Ranger park,  
Dingle park,  
$ 
Total value of real estate, £$ 
Total value of land, ..  
Total value of buildings,  
$ 

 
ANNUAL REPORT
CITY OF HOLYOKE
YEARSENDING NOVEMBER .
Sea Lr
a wa aN
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
Grirritu, AxTRLL Cavy Co.

|
|
|
IN BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
DECEMBER .
Read and accepted.
EOW. A. KANE, Clerk.

|
 .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,

Massachusetts.

GENTLEMEN :—I have the honor to submit the department
report for the year ending November it being the twentyfourth annual report of the Engineering Department of the city of
Holyoke. |

The receipts and expenditures have been as follows :—

RECEIPTS.
By appropriation, . 
By appropriation from salaries,  
By cash from Assessors,  
By cash house numbering,  
————— 
EXPENDITURES.
Salary of City Engineer, 
Salary and pay-roll of assistants,  
Office supplies,  
Car fare, postage, express, etc.,  
New instruments, tapes, etc., .
Assessors’ maps,  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
Telephone, . 
Horse hire,  
Card index, cabinets, etc.,  
Printing,  
Lithographic maps of city,  
Typewriting,  
———— 
Balance unexpended, 

It will be observed by referring to my annual report for  ,
that the expenditures of this department for the year just concluded
are in excess of the expenditures for the former year, by about one
thousand ($ dollars. This increase of expense for the past
year is accounted for in the main by the new work and additional
duties devolving upon this department. Some of these duties were
formerly performed under contracts outside of the city offices, as

explained elsewhere in this report, and some are the natural consequences of the growth and development of our city and the extra
demands on the City Engineer, acting in his official capacity as
clerk of the Board of Public Works; while much additional work
results also from the necessity of perfecting and systematizing the
data and records of former years, necessity which our rapid
advancement is making more and more imperative.

Again, additional work for the department necessarily causes
additional expense for office supplies, postage, express, etc., while
the extension of suburban work causes an increase in car fare and
horse hire. The items of assessors’ maps and new lithographic
maps of the city are also extra expenses incurred during the past
year.

There are continual demands on this department for information which ought to be available in the office of the City Engineer,
but, owing to the fact that until the last few years it has been the
policy to make the administration and work of this department a
side issue from some private business, its early records are conseqjuently very much abridged. have endeavored to correct this

inadequacy by collecting the necessary data, as am able, to supply
the wanting records.

, REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
Considerable has already been accomplished in this line, but
much still remains to be done. Both to this end and in view of the
constant accumulation of important data, have purchased for the
City Engineer’s office, the necessary material and cabinet for complete card index of all drawings belonging to his department.
This will facilitate the systematic registry of all current work.
With all this matter at our command, thus properly indexed, the
information it furnishes can be promptly found when needed,
and at the same time the index will show at glance, any desired
data that is lacking. The latter can be supplied as opportunity
offers. Last year had compiled from old reports, etc., table of
sewers built to December which was embodied in my
annual report. have continued to supplement this table with
maps and profiles of some of the old sewers, where such have been
found wanting. have also replaced many incomplete and worn
out maps. Among these are maps and profiles of Appleton street
sewer and Front street sewer from its outlet at the Connecticut
river to the intersection of Prospect and Chestnut streets, the
latter distance of two miles. These maps are made on strong
cloth-backed paper suitable for the wear from continual handling.
The amount of time and labor which the City Engineer devotes.
to the other departments is not generally appreciated. Some idea
of the demands upon his time outside of his own department, may
be gained from the following statements :—
MEETINGS AND HEARINGS ATTENDED.

Board of Public Works meetings,  
“*  Aldermen meetings,  
eo“  Committee meetings,  
eo“ Hearings,  
“* “Public Works hearings,  
‘* Plumbing Examiners meetings,  

 

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
PETITIONS, ETC., REFERRED.
By the Board of Aldermen,  
“ Committee,  Public Works,  
“ ‘Health,  o

At various times during the year special reports have been
prepaired for the Board of Aldermen and the Board of Public Works,
some of which are incorporated in this report, and the remainder
will be found on file in the City Engineer’s office. To the former
board twenty-three reports, and to the latter nine reports have
been submitted. |

There is no question but what this department can be administered at reduced expense, by omitting much of the important

' work above referred to and by making no attempt to raise it toa
standard equal to that adopted by other cities and demanded by
the progressive age in which we are called upon to act; but such
a policy would be questionable one, certainly not such as governs
our large and successful corporations, and most emphatically not in
the line of true economy.

CITY MAPS.

The Board of Aldermen was recently petitioned by T. W.
Mann, civil engineer, for the payment of  on account, for
work done on the city maps. This petition was referred to the
City Solicitor and the City Engineer. In order to inform myself
thoroughly in regard to the work done by the petitioner, traveled
over the entire city with Mr. Mann, noting carefully the work
accomplished. also visited his office and examined his maps
and notes. The following report, submitted at the time to the
Board of Aldermen, embodies the result of my investigation, with
recommendations.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
Horyoke, October .
Lo the Honorable, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,

Massachusetts.

GENTLEMEN :—I return herewith the petition of T. W. Mann
for seventeen hundred ($ dollars on account, which was
referred to the City Solicitor and City Engineer by your honorable
board. ]

Presumedly this petition was referred to the City Solicitor and
City Engineer jointly that each official might recommend whatever
action he considered advisable for the interest of his department.

With this understanding your engineer has consulted with your
petitioner, examined the work he has done and considered the
question from an engineer’s standpoint—leaving the legal phases
of the question with the City Solicitor to untangle.

In the year your petitioner, then City Engineer, submitted the following proposition to the City Government.

HotyokE, November .
To the Honorable, the City Council of the City of [folyoke:

The undersigned respectfully prays that your honorable board
take*tavorab'e action as to the procuring thorough set of scientific maps for the city of Holyoke, and would submit the following
proposition as to the making of them. The maps to consist
as follows :— )

First. general map showing the city in outline from the
river on the north and south to the hill district westerly of Northampton street, giving all distances and areas and grades made to
scale of two hundred feet per inch, on best of hand-made linen
paper mounted on canvas and on rollers in cabinet.

Second. map, same as above, with con/our or level lines on
same, giving the only sure and equitable manner of assessing sewers,
and the proper course in which to lay them. All on canvas with
first named map.

Third. map showing the more central portion of the city on
a scale of feet to the inch, giving land lines and grades; also
showing sewers, water pipes, hydrants, catch basins, etc., all on the

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINFER.

same endless roll as Nos. and  in cabinet to be made so as to
show maps on wall, and also to incline as table fur inspection and
copying.

Fourth. set of maps in folio, each two feet three inches by
three feet, best Whatman linen drawing paper, mounted on cloth and
bound on edge with proper material made to scale of fifty feet per
inch to show such features as details of curb lines, catch basins,
location of hydrants, street lights and such other information, as to
tree-belts, cross-walks, etc., as is necessary to have. All the above
maps to be made in such manner of draughtmanship as will admit
of all maps to be reproduced by the method of photo-lithography
for general use, thereby saving the original maps for perfect record.
Your petitioner respectfully offers to make such maps as described,
and to make such portions first, without delay, as will be accessible
to the Assessors and the public, and such as will best help the prosecution of the public work.

Also that he will ask for no payment for the same until the
work is completed, and then will accept such amount in full payment as shall be settled upon by three disinterested civil engineers,
one to be named by your petitioner, one by the City Council and
the third by those two chosen and whose decision shall be binding
on both parties.

Yours respectfully,
T. W. MANN.

When that proposition was accepted by the City Goverment of
 it was generally understood that the work would be compleated in three years, but neither he who proposed nor those who
accepted realized the magnitude of the work to be accomplished.
Itis now nearly eleven years since Mr. Mann commenced work,
during which time he has finished great amount of field work,
such as locating township bounds, city limits, highways, streets,
sidewalks, principal buildings, public buildings, water courses,
ponds, etc.; but no office work of any consequence such as mapping, platting, etc., has been done. However, your petitioner has
note books enough to filla good-sized trunk, containing the very
information this department would appreciate if mapped and platted

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  

as carefully as the field work has been done. In the opinion of

your engineer it is quite desirable that the work undertaken should

b  completed as soon as possible, and to attain that end would

recommend that the petition be granted upon the following
conditions :—

That your petitioner will execute proper papers agreeing,

First, that no action of this government shall make valid or
invalid the action of the City Gcovernment of in accepting the
proposition of Mr. T. W. Mann.

Second, that your petitioner will carry out his proposition,
complete his work and deliver his maps to the City Clerk on or
before December ,

Third, that in case of failure to so complete his work and so
deliver said maps, he shall release the City of Holyoke from all
claims he may have against said city by the action of the City
Government of in accepting said proposition.

I suggest those conditions that the city may know definitely
when to expect the completion of the work, that the city may
encourage Mr. Mann in the work he has undertaken, for believe
the maps, when made in accordance with the proposition, will be of
inestimable value to the city. ‘There is limit, however, to the
time when the maps will be of value and in order that they may be
finished when they are of value, when the city is in need of such
information as they will contain, it seems to me advisable to impose
such conditions before the payment of any money is made.

Respectfully,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
City Engineer.
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.
CABOT STREET PAVING.

Cabot street, between Main street and the Willimansett bridge,
has been paved with vitrified brick, the first brick pavement laid in
this city. The pavement between Park street and the Willimansett
bridge was laid under contract by W. R. Johnson of Steubenville,

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

Ohio, ona four-( inch concrete foundation composed of one )
part of cement, two parts of sand and five parts of broken
stone. The work of excavating, rolling and preparing the bed was
done by the city. The pavement between Main and Park streets
was laid by the city on foundation of gravel eight inches deep,
put on in two layers, each being made firm and compact by rolling
with the twelve-( ton steam roller.

For experimental purposes, to test the comparative value and
cost, those two foundations were used, and it remains for time to
determine which is the more economical. Whether or not the
winter frosts, which usually penetrate to depth of about three )

, feet in this latitude, will disturb the surface where gravel foundation is used, is still an open question which we patiently await for
time to decide.

The merits of vitrified brick for street paving, as recommended
in my last annual report, have been verified by subsequent investigations and our own brief experience.

I am convinced that we have found in this material, when
properly laid, the most suitable paving for our streets.

The first cost of brick paving, as well as the cost of its maintenance, is very much less than that of granite or asphalt blocks,
while it combines in high degree the best qualities of both the
latter, and possesses other qualities very much their superior.

The cost of each of these materials laid on gravel foundation

is as follows :—
Brick per square yard, $ 
Granite per square yard,  
Asphalt, ,  
Brick paving laid on concrete foundation, with two-inch

sand cushion on top of the concrete, cost, per square

yard, ,  

‘The durability of brick, as unanimously reported from the cities
and towns where it has been fairly tested, is much greater than
asphalt, while brick gives better foothold for horses, is as noiseless
and as free from dust as the latter, and the higher grades of brick
are nearly as free from absorption. As compared with granite,

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
, brick pavement has very decided advantage inits greater freedom
: from noise and dust, in its greater ease of traction, and in being
af less slippery when wet.
  The following is statement of the receipts and expenditures
 for the brick paving on Cabot street, as furnished by the City
| Auditor :-—
EXPENDITURES.

hs
‘ W. R. Johnson (contractor), .$  Eastern Paving Brick Co. (brick),  
Pay roll, J,  
| Bills, ,  
oi 
* RECEIPTS.
Transfer from municipal loan, 
f Transfer from license fund,  

From Holyoke Street Railway,  
. From sidewalk appropriation (for brick used),  
$ 
. Balance cash on hand, and brick at city yard,  
: The accompanying letter gives the detailed cost of brick paving on Cabot street, both on the gravel and on the concrete founda. tions. .
: HoryoxeE, Mass., November .
: Jas. H, Newton, Esq., Chairman Board of Public Works, City of

Holyoke, Mass.

Dear Sir :—In reply to your inquiry, ‘“ What is the comparative cost of laying brick pavements in the three different ways
  mentioned below, and the cost of asphalt blocks as laid in the city :
First. Upon gravel base?
Second. Upon concrete base?
: Third. Upon course of brick laid flatwise?”’

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

I answer, the work on gravel base cost as follows :—
Excavating inches deep, ..  per square yard
Rolling down sand foundation, or ‘c
Hauling gravel for foundation,  ,
Rolling down gravel foundation,  j
Hauling sand for cushion layer, Og a
Brick, ,
Hauling brick, 
Laying brick,  
Cement grout filler, ‘
Watchman, ....  

$ sc

The work done on concrete base cost as follows :—
Excavating inches deep,  per square yard
Rolling sand foundation,  se cs
Concrete foundation, cs 
Sand for cushion layer, “s “
Cost of brick, f.  b. cars, sc T
Hauling the brick, Il ss rr
Laying the brick,   s
Cement grout filler, ‘s 
Inspector, 
Watchman,  Tr 

$  ‘s ‘c
Estimated cost on brick foundation :—
Excavating  inches deep,  per square yard
Rolling sand foundation,  ‘s 
Brick for bottom course laid flatwise, rT
Hauling bottom course,  “
laying bottom course, ce
Brick for top course, r
Hauling surface course, TT ‘

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
Laying surface course,  per square yard
Cement grout filler,  
Watchman,   “

‘  Cr  

You will notice that estimate the cost of hauling and laying
the bottom course at eight and ten cents per square yard respectively, and the cost of hauling and laying the surface course at eleven
and fourteen cents per square yard respectively. ‘This difference is
caused by the difference in the amount of brick required to lay a
square yard in each case. The lower or bottom course would
require but forty-three bricks per square yard, while the surface
course requires fifty-eight bricks per square yard.

From the above statements it appears that the cost of the
gravel base alone is twenty-six cents per square yard, and of concrete base forty-four cents per square yard, and of brick laid flatwise
seventy-two cents per square yard.

The cost of asphalt block pavement, including excavation, has
been  per square yard.

Trusting these figures will meet your requirements, am

Very respectfully yours,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
City Engineer.

|
 |
- a:  ;
,Mes es  
*
' &
PeONa.
er. ra Pa oe oF -. i
ay Eo Oe ce iP ah PES tpGe Se
“ aA “+ ». yy ra ve ‘
‘ ye  CRAN pS T) hes yh
"  fit —)  PAs
  Pe Se EA ih og
GooeyOn ae
  a! Be! aa  
teHeel,
 eA on.fa ae: 
ay CR  eae yt  ft NS +
I \aA +.  aA ys :
, ontP)
— xt oe sates po let —s A” har ‘Ot ist
Ba pepe Le Tie Suits,
" fall  “ee  rr Le +
a, Teg ew ne. a. fade”
ee ge.  Lt ua ay Sa want "A A
. ae Tas ann es KS Sad oe“e at By!
.  oe Pou nee  se “& :
  esee PSS
een PE ea eaeetfare
EXCAVATING.
; Mere (“AIS a
 bs ™
| “s  aan So
i. ‘a NA woes
a roees am
Py  ar
Seat  \»  .
“ ”
"  is y
o ae .

Se  SS Aer ,
yale
. if ’
- ——  ooh Sa  ’
— vt  SP Nee Ss wry os
RESey ia
.  Be! ;
PO. eR ie
*- re on
 ao oe ae Or,  a.
. ‘se ..  ‘
Sag  
Fi ft Pe an ;
 LFX OO .
.   of  
READY FOR ANOTHER BATCH,
Digitized by Google

;  ie we}  sCe
b be)  oe pe 
eh so Gq na tT }
e yds ‘a DA :
‘ee “ey fae 
een re i,
ae.  M' ". Ty 
erie ay. iF g
,  Oe

 ae  ro Zes-oby  ,

‘  ge ps. oS cat  r
“ sl ie Poe  

WwW “te ey re ae oe

mmEy eh a
Shee te ie Ne tu oe

  Pry MeN
en We BY V
 se .

. at *y, pe! Nn  Sa *
Se Pe VRS Se
pa as ae ay “a e] ry  he Lb *,
——— oa Pe Se SO
ii a, nae
"  res at,  hy
aH
or, |
MIXING CONCRETE.
. ate ee
Ps -, ‘Dadi a" aed Bed
Lhe Lng eae,”
ee ef
— te oe @--ia .
su" ve ies —— 
ie. ‘Ane bey Cowl
athe if it ng ee
apy fe Le] rr) a
i iN ba -- »
;  —
ips. Sia ‘eb
“ a. Ad
Si  al .
-  Sy ao ;
rT ae oo
‘ be  po “i .
  Vie
re: Gee ws A
. Say   or
+  et eg De: *
 aren LY Phe, Ph eae
-  oy:  ae.  al
Lf ens. sod ovate, “Sate Pane  
PREPARING SAND CUSHION.
Digitized by Google

ie :
  sd
VA ®t  Asi ;
——  bgee ee
 Fo Ailey  
eePee MS
: Pe SRS SF Sy TT i
a Te.
 a
* viv ri —,
a, a,
  oi on
— Sk ls yy ave Te: sy ;
ae" ne  ye ag  th.
 ae Xe s
j ihe o, é
 ay *
 ss Be)
  re :
& we Vie  Se eae ea Sse  ) x,
LAYING BRICK. ;
rue et ae  
en
 v
 ae |
PS. ae  
*  Bis Tes, '
lecae Re
P- ,
— ae|
Pp  Ne 
moe he .
“  woes ,
- ens  ae ee
®  
|  
at *
 ,; .
q ny 
Ps Ve Ve  
-  me ae 
a ——  eae.BE cere
- lt  {
MIXING CONCRETE.
Digitized by Google

;  
. Soa ‘"
. sens iy
| Siting i
Pas :
te NSal |
 Sal ie
| ints  :- se Mn! ti iis
ft  ee
Ot. By Aly
y d/ Ra ad |
| “i
a Sloe corres —aaes
— ee
o-/ a
, ‘f Sb PO. “ee
. ex
a. EK on
——  “
BROOMING GROUT.
: oo
a  \
Sy heer ros |
es a
he ae} Cae
ee eS eT f
“ae '
Sp eS Re ha. Ns
Be Fett The rps. te hs  
La, fe so T. bh by ae
 ey —— |! j
 ie j
: 
St Gale
 ees,
a i
rae Sar —— 
ee /
  SS a
 —s —— —
oS rae  a
 Lm wie,.
. SO ae, Sea SS ee,
, POURING GROUT.
Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
PAVING RECOMMENDATIONS.

In my opinion the policy of paving small section of street
each year, to be paid for from an appropriation to be met by direct
taxation, is not the policy of wisdom or economy.

In young and progressive city like our own, the demands for
development, improvements and maintenance oftimes exd the
capacity of the exchequer to fulfill.

Can we not meet the legitimate demands of rapidly growing

and progressive city without overburdening the tax payers at the
very inception of much-needed improvement?
, Would not the saving in the cost of maintenance of permaently improved streets greatly exd the interest on their first
cost, and would not the first cost of the more extended improvements of this character cost proportionately much less than those
on smaller scale in accordance with the usual practice ?

It is my firm conviction that the city should at once pave all
the streets subject to heavy traffic, and should issue bonds for this
purpose. Such course would reduce the annual expenditure for
maintenance and procure just apportionment of the cost upon alk
who would enjoy its benefits for years to come.

Not only would the cost of construction and maintenance be
less and the comfort and pleasure of travel greatly enhanced, but
greater loads can be moved with the same power over the better
streets, and the wear and tear on horses and vehicles greatly
reduced—benefits which would be felt directly or indirectly by every
citizen.

Such policy would also prevent, in great measure, the frequent and often unjust charge of reckless extravagance against the
unfortunate administration that is finally compelled to shoulder the
responsibility of such important improvements.

Cabot street should be finished as far as High street. Appleton
street west of the N. Y., N. H. H. location to Linden street is in
need of paving, but until the question of separating the grades has.
been decided, nothing permanent should be done east of High
street. Lyman street in Ward One and Ward Four, Dwight street.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
west of Chestnut street, and other streets, demand improvements,
and submit for your consideration the advantage of doing all
at once.

JACKSON STREET CROSSING.

Upon petition of the Mayor and Aldermen, the County Commissioners granted the city permission to open Jackson street under
the tracks of the N. Y., N. H.& H. Company. hearing was
given by the commissioners in the aldermanic chamber, where the
company was represented by Walter S. Robinson, Esq., who
objected to the opening of the street. As this crossing does not
come under the general law relating to grade crossings, the city
will probably be required to pay the entire cost of separating the
grades. would recommend that when this work be done, it be
executed in conjunction with the railroad company.

HIGH STREET WIDENING.

Early in the year the Board of Aldermen took up the question
of widening High street between Prospect and Fountain streets, and
under the direction of said board this department made the necessary plans and prepared an estimate of the cost of the proposed
improvement, the result of which was an appropriation for the execution of the work. The Board of Aldermen then authorized the
City Engineer to settle the damages with, and obtain releases from,
the abuttors whose land was to be taken, and the final settlement
was as follows, viz. :—

Geo. P. Ellison, square feet, 
D. Higgins estate, ‘“ 
Merrick Thread Co.,  

Totals, .. square feet, 

All buildings upon land taken were to be removed, the expense
of which was included in the above figures. The amount paid the
D. Higgins estate was decided by arbitration, Mr. Casper Ranger

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER. |
acting for the estate and Mr. D. H. Newton acting for the city.
The claims of the Merrick Thread Co. and Geo. P. Ellison were
agreed upon by John Hildreth, Esq., attorney for the parties interested and your engineer.

ST. JEROME AVENUE.

Another important improvement made this year consists of
connecting the Highlands and Oakdale residential districts, by
Opening St. Jerome avenue between Dwight and Sargeant streets.
The Board of Aldermen ordered the City Engineer to prepare plans,
estimates, etc., and settle the amount of damages to be awarded,
with those persons whose property was taken.

Damages were awarded as shown in the following table, viz. :—

Land

Owner. Taken Rate. Extra. Total,

Sq. ft.
Rev. P. J. Harkins, trustee,  c.  
Cochran Page,  c.  
Robert A. Allyn, c. 
Rescott Lynch, c.  
Helen A. Richards.  §c.  
John W. Kelly,  c.  
$ 

Robert A. Allyn was awarded  above value of land, which
was estimated to cover the cost of removing the “‘ Hodge’”’ house
and building new cellar under it. Helen A. Richards was awarded
$  above value of land, to cover cost of two cellars built upon her
land.

CHARLES STREET EXTENSION.

The Board of Aldermen also instructed the City Engineer,
early in the year, to submit plans and estimates for new street,
providing more direct communication from the South street engine
house to the southerly portion of Elmwood.

The extension of Charles street from Washington avenue to
Laurel street was found the only feasible solution of this problem,

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
and plan, with estimate of cost, furnished accordingly. This plan
was adopted and the new street cut through, thus enabling the fire
apparatus from the South street engine house to reach rapidly
growing part of Elmwood in case of fire much quicker than by the
old roundabout way. ‘This improvement is also great accommodation to all who live in that vicinity, or to any having business in
that section.

Following are the land damages awarded for this extension :—
To Geo. C. Marsh, . 
“ Philip J. Munroe,  
“ S. B. Winchester,  
$ 
MILLER SrREET AND CLINTON AVENUE CONNECTION.
Connecting Miller street and Clinton avenue was another important piece of work done this year. Inthe year strip of
land between the easterly side of Miller street and the easterly side
of Clinton avenue, was purchased for this purpose, but no appropriation was made for doing the work. Each administration since  
has considered the feasibility of making this connection ponderous claims for damages (in one case an injunction) being the cause
of deferring action from year to year, and it remained for the first
chairman of the Board of Public Works to devise plan that was
acceptable to allconcerned. Sloping banks, twenty- foot
roadway and two sidewalks, each five feet wide, all inside the street
lines, costing but with no damages, were suggested by
Mr. Newton, instead of high, prison-like stone walls; sidewalks
and roadway of regulation width and no limit of damages and
expense.
PLEASANT STREET.
Pleasant street between Dwight street and Beacon avenue
should be widened. ‘This section of Pleasant street is dangerously
narrow about one-third of the width is occupied by street car

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

tracks. Land should be purchased on the westerly side of the

street, the tree-belts removed and the sidewalks set back.
BRIDGES.

The county bridge over the Connecticut river between Holyoke
and South Hadley Falls, and the county bridge over the saine river
between Holyoke and Willimansett, received their share of attention
this year. Each bridge was examined, repaired and painted. On
the former bridge graphite paint was used, while the Jatter bridge
was painted with an oxide of iron.’’ This work was under the
direction of the Engineering Department, superintended by Mr.
Eli I. Brockett, the riveting being done by men engaged from the
two local boiler works.

EXPENDITURES.

Holyoke and South Hadley Falls bridge :—
Contract for labor with Holyoke Paint and Wail

Paper Co., , 
Repairs, labor and materials,  
Graphite paint at ccnts per gallon, —.  

$ 

Holyoke and Willimansett bridge :—

Contract for labor with Dreicorn Paint Co., —. 
Repairs, labor and materials,  
Oxide of iron paint at cents per gallon,  

$ 

About five hundred and fifty ($ dollars were spent in
repairing the wooden bridge over the second level canal on Bridge
street. In my opinion this bridge is now as substantial as ever
and able to bear its burdens for several years to come. But the

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
bridge on Main street over the third level canal has passed its days
of usefulness and should be replaced by new structure equal to
the demands of heavy teaming and steadily increasing street car
traffic.

All of the canal bridges need painting and general repairing
that cannot with safety be longer deferred.

Upon the selection of paint for bridges, engineers differ widely,
and it might be well for the city to determine by experiment which
paint is the most economical. would suggest that several of the
standard paints be tried and record made of the time of application, so that at the end of period of years, the officials will know
which paint is the most satisfactory and which to adopt for future
use. This city has an admirable opportunity for just such test,
having fifteen bridges to maintain, all of which, except one,
are over constantly running streams.

Several bridges, including the two county bridges, will require
replanking as soon as the weather will permit. The Board of Public
Works and your engineer have this question under advisement at
the present time, but trust you will not overlook this important
matter in making the appropriation for  .

HOUSE NUMBERING.

In the work of assigning numbers to houses several complications have been discovered. Many streets have been numbered in
the wrong direction and many duplicate numbers are found on the
same street. Among the streets numbered in the wrong direction
are Taylor, Pleasant, Pearl, Howard, Parker, Arlington, Nonotuck,
O’Connor ave, Brooks ave., Clinton ave., East Dwight, Mosher, Ely,
Canal, Vernon, James, Papineau, Frew, Temple, Carlton, Washington ave., Allen and Gates streets. The time has come when a
general systematic plan of house numbering should be adopted. It
is certainly complicated state of affairs when two streets adjacent
and parallel with each other are numbered in opposite directions.
As this department can do nothing to straighten out such inaccuracies without specific orders from the Board of Aldermen. trust
you will give the subject your consideration,

;

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
STREET NAMES.

With multiplicity of names to select from it seems incredulous
that we should have so many streets with the same or similar names,
and would recommend the adoption of new names for some of
the following places, viz. :—

Allyn street on the Highlands or Allen street in Elmwood;
Chapin avenue on the Highlands or Chapin street in Elmwood ;
Highland avenue on the Highlands, Highland street in Elmwood or
Highland Terrace near the Northampton line; Bridge street in
Ward One or Bridge street in Ward Three Summer street in Ward
One or Summer street in Ward Three; East street in Ward One or
East street in Ward Three; Ely street or Ely court in Ward One;
Columbus avenue in Springdale or Columbus avenue on John
Cleary’s tract Newton street or Newton place, east of High street ;
Washington avenue in Elmwood or Washington avenue on the
Highlands; Nonotuck street on the Highlands or Nonotuck street
in Ward One.

LIST OF GRADES ESTABLISHED IN  .

ON. AT. ELEVATION.
Charles street, Center of Washington avenue,  
‘“ Center of Laurel street,  
Franklin Center of Linden street,  
“s Center of Locust street,  

. Center of Sycamore street,  
ss “s Center of Magnolia street,  

“s Center of St. Jerome avenue,  
Glen Center of Brown avenue,  
“ i“ point feet west of center of Brown ave.,  

“ Center of Northampton street,  
James  Center of Main street,  
“ “e point feet west of center of Main street,  

““ Center of Temple street,  

“ point feet west of center of Temple st.,  
Linden Center of Bh street,  
“  ‘e Center of Jackson street,  

“s Center of Franklin street,  

““ point feet north of center of Franklinst.,  

se ‘e point feet north of center of Franklin st.,  

‘* “* Center of Sargeant street, —.  

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
ON. AT. ELEVATION.
Locust street, Center of Sargeant street, ..  
“ Center of Franklin street,  
Magnolia Center of Sargeant street, ..  
‘ Center of Franklin street, :
St. Jerome avenue, Center of Dwight street, |
“ Center of Shawmut avenue,  
“ Center of Farnum street,  
“s  point feet south of center of Farnum st., |
‘“s ss At point feet south of center of Farnum
““ street,  
“ At point feet south of center of Farnum
‘e  street,  
“ Center of Sargeant street,  
Sargeant street, Center of Oak street, ..  
. Center of Linden street,  
. Center of Locust street,  
“  Center of Sycamore street, ..  O
ss “se Center of Magnolia street,  
“ The angle west of Magnolia street,  
‘ Center of St. Jerome avenue,  
“  point feet west of center of St. Jerome
*‘ ‘s avenue,  
“ Center of Northampton street, 
Sycamore Center of Hampshire street,  
. “s point feet south of center of Hampshire
. *‘ Street,  
‘s “e Center of Sargeant street,  
“s “é Center of Franklin street,  
View ss Center of Brown avenue,  
“ “s point feet west of center of Brown ave.,  
“ point  feet west of center of Brown ave.,  
“ ‘s Center of Northampton street,  .c 
West  ‘* Bowers and Mosher line,”’  
“ Center of Samosett street,  
“ “e Center of Pequot street,  
Willow ‘* Center of Brown avenue,  O
“ point feet west of center of Brown ave.,  
ss ‘e point feet west of center of Brown ave.,  
“e point feet west of center of Brown ave.,  
a se point feet west of center of Brown ave.,  
se Center of Laurel street,  
All grades established on center lines of the foregoing streets unless
otherwise stated.

"  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
LIST OF STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .

NAME. FROM TO LENGTH IN FEET.
Charles street Washington avenue Laurel street  
Franklin street Linden street St. Jerome avenue  
Glen street Brown avenue Northampton street  
James street Main street H. W.R. R. line  
Linden street Sargeant street Bh street  
Locust street Sargeant street Franklin street  
Magnolia street Sargeant street Franklin street  
St. Jerome avenue Dwight street Sargeant street  
Sargeant street Oak street Northampton street  
Sycamore street Hampshire street Franklin street .CO
View street Brown avenue Northampton street  
West street Bowers Mosher line Pequot street  
Willow street Brown avenue Laurel street  

 

Total length of streets accepted in  miles,  

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

The extensions to the sewerage systems during the year  
will be found concisely set forth in table on another page. This
department is in great need of information concerning old sewers,
which we are making an effort to obtain. In this connection, we
have taken advantage of the work done by private parties who make
sewer connections, and obtained the size, elevation and location of
several sewers at the expense of said parties.

SEWER RECOMMENDATIONS.

Ingleside is rapidly growing section that should be provided
with sewers, and would suggest that sewer be constructed in
Springfield street between St. Vincent and Ferry streets, discharging
into the river by way of Peltiah street.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER. |
' THE HIGHLAND SEWERS.

That something must be done soon to provide that section of
the city lying north of Fairfield avenue with sewerage system, is
quite apparent. Your engineer is not prepared to recommend a
plan at this time, but would suggest that you give the subject your
serious consideration, as sewerage system adequate for this section
will entail an enormous expenditure, owing to the contour of the
ground and the objection of the Holyoke Water Power Company |
to the discharge of sewage into the river above the dam.

STORM WATER SEWERS.

In my report of last year recommended that storm water
sewer be built in Appleton street, discharging the water into the
first level canal. The objection of the Holyoke Water Power Company to the discharge of surface water into the canals, caused me to
study the problem more thoroughly, and am now prepared to offer
a plan far preferable to the one proposed last year. There is no
doubt but what the sewers in the thickly populated sections of the
city are taxed to their utmost capacity and in times of heavy rains
are unable to meet the demands. Complaint after complaint
has been made of flooded cellars, and several cases have been
before the committee on claims for settlement. Such complaints

are not confined toone section, but come from all sections included
in the Walnut street and Front street system. To remedy the evil
the city cannot afford to dig up and enlarge sewers, but must resort
to separate system of providing for surface water—a far cheaper
and more satisfactory solution of the problem. That such plan
must be adopted cannot be denied, although action may be deferred
for one or two years. With the object of abating the evil would
suggest that the Front street system be relieved by running a
surface water sewer only through Front street from Appleton street
to the ravine between Jackson and South streets. This sewer
could be laid beside the present trunk sewer in Front street, being
intercepted by surface water sewers in Appleton, Cabot, Sargeant and

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

Jackson streets, all of which could extend as far westerly as Elm or
Walnut streets, and receive the water from the catch basins in each
street. |

To relieve the Walnut street system would suggest that a
storm water sewer only be laid in Pine street from Hampshire street
to Lyman street, thence easterly to the alley, thence northerly on
top of the trunk sewer to the river. Intercepting this sewer could
be laid surface water sewers in Cabot, Essex and Appleton streets,

: extending as far westerly as Sycamore street; in Suffolk street extending easterly to Chestnut street and westerly to Linden street;
in Dwight street easterly to Chestnut street and westerly to
O’Connor avenue in Hampshire street easterly to Chestnut street
and westerly to Linden street; in Lyman street easterly to Maple
street and in O’Connor and Clinton avenues to Dwight street.

As annual reports cannot be expected to contain more than
suggestions of proposed work and description of work completed,
I will not go into details with this recommendation farther than to
say that the expense of putting this separate system into operation
will not be heavy. None of the surface water sewers need be more
than five feet deep except in Front street, or more than twelve )
or fifteen inches in diameter, except the trunk sewers. In the
opinion of your engineer, portion of the work on the Walnut street
system should be done the coming year.

ARMORY.

Another question that has been agitated during the past year
is that of building an armory. The subject was referred to this
department by the Board of Aldermen for special investigation. The
following report, the result of my study of the subject, embracing a
statement in relation to armories built in other places, with estimates
and recommendations, was submitted to the Board of Aldermen.
To the Honorable, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN :—Pursuant to the order of your honorable body
of January rgth, instructing the City Engineer to estimate the cost
of an armory building for the city of Holyoke and report the same

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
to your board, herewith respectfully submit for your consideration
my report, embodying the result of my investigations.

In connection with my study of the requirements for suitable
armory for our militia, made some inquiry in regard to the provisions made for such purposes, and the cost of same in other places,
corresponding in relation to this matter with the Adjutant General,
Armory Commission and number of cities and towns.

In reply to my letters of inquiry am informed that the towns
of Wakefield, Malden, Stoneham and several other places have
erected armories of their own costing from five to fifteen thousand
dollars. Stoneham has utilized what was originally skating rink
at cost of ten thousand dollars, including the land valued at two
thousand dollars.

The Armory Commission has erected armories for the following
cities :—

. Fitchburg at acost of 
Lowell,  
lawrence,  
Lynn,  
Worcester,  
Springfield,  

Fall River has an armory in process of construction to cost
about .

The amounts given above are in all instances for the cost of
the buildings above the land.

In addition to the cost of land and buildings the following
armories have received appropriations for furnishing: Boston,
Lowell and Worcester, Fitchburg, Lawrence,  Springfield,  and Fall River, .
See Acts and Resolves of Massachusetts, Chapter Chapter
  Chapter Chapter and Chapter  ,
 .

By act of the Legislature, Chapter Acts and Resolves of
Massachusetts,  an armory commission was created and empowered to purchase land in Boston and other cities and towns of

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

the state, having two or more companies of militia, to erect armoriesthereon and to furnish them, the same to be paid for from the state
treasury.

To meet the amount required for the purchase of land and
erection of armories, the state treasurer is authorized by above act
to issue certificates of debt to be known as “armory bonds,” to bear
interest not to exd four per cent, and to mature in not to exd
thirty years.

The amount required each year to pay the interest and sinking
fund necessary for the loan contracted for the erection of an armory,
is included and made part of the sum charged to the city in which
such armory is located, and is assessed and collected the same as
other taxes.

The interest and principal of these certificates are payable,
when due, in gold coin or its equivalent.

See Acts and Resolves af Massachusetts, Chapter .

Thus these armories built by the Armory Commission ultimately
become the property of the respective cities in which they are
erected, but the city receives no payment from the state for rent.

In view, however, of the fact that the amount of cost of armory,
including land and furnishing, does not effect the debt limit of the
city where located when erected by the Armory Commission, would
urge for your consideration the advantage to be derived from the
organization of another company of militia, so as to bring us within
the limit of cities benefited by Chapter Acts and Resolves of
Massachusetts,  and would recommend as the most desirable
provision that can be made for the necessary accommodation for our militia, that we obtain another company and make
application to the Armory Commission to puchase site and erect an
armory in our city.

I would suggest as suitable site for such building as in my
judgment seems necessary, should this course be pursued, the lot
belonging to the Merrick Thread Company on the northeast corner of
Appleton and Railroad streets. This lot is feet on Appleton,
  feet on Railroad, and feet on Division streets, and  
feet on the alley between High and Railroad streets. It would
permit of two-story head house fronting Appleton, containing

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
assembly room, offices, etc., with one-story dyill hall at the rear
on Railroad street, extending to Division street, with opportunity
for shooting range at side of drill hall or under ground. estimate
the cost of such building at about  exclusive of land.

In the event of our inability to build under the armory act, I
would recommend the purchase of suitable Jot and the erection
of building to be used for both armory and engine house. The
lot on the northwest corner of Suffolk and Maple streets, belonging
to W. B. C. Pearsons, Esq., would be disirable location, should the
plan be adopted. It is as central as the High street engine house
for the fire department, and would be free from the obstruction of
the street railway. ‘The sale of the High street property would
furnish considerable proportion of the funds necessary for the
purchase of the land and erection of the new building. ‘The
Pearsons lot is feet on Suffolk street and feet on Maple
Street. three-story building covering the lot would accommodate
the fire department with room for apparatus and stables in the first
story, and offices, parlors, bedrooms, etc., in the second story, and
would also accommodate the militia with offices, assembly room, etc.,
in the second story, and with drill hall, stock rooms, etc., in the
third story, and could be built for  exclusive of land.

If it should not seem expedient to adopt either of the above
plans, would recommend the erection of temporary wooden
Structure for drill hall at cost of about .

, Respectfully,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
City Engineer.
CITY PROPERTY.
ALMSHOUSF.

The wing additions to the almshouse, commenced during the
summer of  have, with the exception of the heating and ventilating and the electric lighting, been completed since my last report.

The original contract for this work called for the completion of
the buildings, with the exception of the lathing and plastering and ,

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
wood finish of the fhird story of each new wing, and was let July  ,
 to LaLiberte Bros. of this city for the sum of .

Owing to the pressing need of the accommodations designed
for the third stories of these additions, the Board of Public Works,
early in the year, advertised for bids for their completion, which
resulted in contract for this work, awarded to the same builders
for .

The contract for heating and ventilating the almshouse was let
October to the H. O. Sprague Son Co. of Westfield,
Mass., for the sum of By the terms of the contract said
company is required, under bond of to heat any or all
rooms to temperature of seventy degrees in any kind of weather,
and to complete the work to the satisfaction of the Board of Public
Works and the State Inspector of Public Buildings, on or before
November .

This work will probably be finished during the present month.

The plans and specifications for heating and ventilating the
almshouse did not originate from this department, but were furnished by the heating contractors.

The contract for electric lighting at the almshouse has been
awarded to the G. M. Angier Co. of Boston, for the sum of .
This company is awaiting the completion of the heating and ventilating plant to enable it to string the wires. It is expected at the
present time that the lighting will be completed and the buildings
ready for occupancy by the middle of January,  The buildings
are at present lighted by oil lamps, which are an annoyance to the
officials and source of danger to the inmates and to the property.

With the completion of its additions, the almshouse will have
sixty-eight dormitories, two large wards for the sick—thirty-one by
thirty-four feet each—four disinfecting rooms lined with galvanized
iron, besides new rooms for assistants, additional storage rooms,
baths, etc.

On account of the proximity of the old barn to the north wing
of the almshouse, it was necessary to remove it from its former site.
It was located several hundred feet to the rear, enlarged by an
addition doubling its former capacity, and basement built under
the entire building. The new barn furnishes excellent accommoREPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
dations for cattle and swine in the basement, horse stable with
harness room, etc., onthe first floor, and convenient storage room
for hay, grain, etc.

This work was also done by contract, by the above builders,
for the sum of .

There are necessarily on the town farm, wagons, machinery,
implements, tools, etc., that in the interest of economy must be
housed when not in use, but requiring more room for this purpose
than could well be spared in the new barn, hence plans were prepared by this department for suitable sheds and tool house adjoining the new barn, making necessary provisions for this demand,
and also for horse shed near the almshouse on the site of the old
barn. These buildings weie constructed under contract, by
Michael Cleary of this city, during the past summer, for the sum
of .

‘his department has also prepared plans for remodeling—for
laundry purposes—the old ice house adjacent to the north wing of
the almshouse, to replace the old laundry which had not only become inadequate for present needs, but portion of its space was
required by the new heating and ventilating plant. This muchneeded improvement has just been completed and was done by
contract by L. IT. Beaulieu for .

Another very decided and important improvement at the
almshouse has been accomplished during the past summer, under
the direction of this department, in building the drives and grading
the grounds about the main building. About an acre and half of
land situated between the city property and the highway and at the
entrance to the almshouse grounds, was purchased from Charles F.
Markert for This land gives additional frontage on the
railroad and on the street at the entrance to the grounds, and supplied, in the grading of same, material for filling where required.
This work was done at an expense of It has given the
city beautiful grounds about these buildings and provided number
of men applying to the authorities for aid with work to earn the
means of support during the dull season of spring and early summer.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
WORK FOR ASSESSORS.

The work on abstract books and assessors’ maps, formerly done
by J. M. Sickman, C. E., is now done by this department.

This work comprises the recording in the abstract books of the
Assessors’ office, abstracts ot all the deeds of transfers of property in
this city, recorded at the registry of deeds in Springfield, and the
changing of the Assessors’ maps, making them conform to the new
ownerships or new property lines caused by these transfers. Owing
to the rapid extension of the suburban portions of the city by the
continual opening up of new properties for residential purposes, this
work is assuming no small proportions.

In connection with this work, this department has prepared
during the year new index, known as the card system, for the
abstract books in the Assessors’ offices. .

The merits of this system will be readily observed from the
following illustration :—

Abs. No.  Page  Map so. Bk.  No.  g. Area  St.. High

Kecord Book

—— Grantor. Grantee. Date.
No. Page.
  |H.W. BP. Co., ....  ... G. BP. Ellison,.....  .  —'  ,G. P. Ellison,........- L. Maxtield........  —' jA.  Maxtfeld,....... Parsons Paper Co.,....  —' 
§  [Parsons Paper Co.,....:Mary L. Cooley,....--}  —'  |Mary L. Cooley,...... cate Brennan,..-.----|  O- —'  Wate Brennan,.....+-- Mary ], Cooley,......  —' 

These cards are filed in neat portable cabinet in the alphabetical order of the streets on which the recorded property fronts.

This cabinet can be easily carried to and from the registrar's
office, where the transfers can be copied from the records directly
onto the index cards, and again transcribed from the index with

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
accompanying sketches of the properties transferred to the abstract
books of the Assessors’ office, thus greatly facilitating this part of the
work.

The labor of preparing this index at an expense of about nine
hundred ($ dollars has been furnished by this department.
The cost of cards and cabinet, viz., sixty-seven dollars and seventy
cents ($ ), was paid by the Assessors’ department.

SIDEWALKS.

On another page will be found list of new sidewalks constructed and list of old walks recovered this year. About  
feet of curbing has been set, square yards of new walk
constructed, and square yards of old walks recovered. In
accordance with the ordinances one-half of the cost of constructing
new walks has been assessed to the abuttors. The total amount of
these assessments is detail of which will be found
tabulated below.

SIDEWALK ASSESSMENTS,  .

I submit herewith in detail the cost of the sidewalks constructed this year, with the amount to be assessed to abuttors for
said sidewalks.

O’Connor avenue, east side, between Dwight street and Brooks
avenue.

- Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ,  
Lumber, .  

$ 
Rate per front foot, $ 

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
Ann Sullivan, feet, 
John M. Walsh,  
P. J.and Mary Murray,  
Ellen Quill,  oo,  

$ 

On Suffolk street, south side, between Bh and Oak.

Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  

$ 
Rate per front foot, . 

Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
George Walker, feet, 
Credit for curbing paid,  

$ 
Ida A. Poole, feet, 
Credit for curbing paid,  
Rose Hanley,  sofeet,  
Credit for curbing paid, ..  
L. H. Potvin, feet,  
Credit for curbing paid,  

$ 

On Essex street, south side, between Bh and Linden.
Labor of men and teams,  
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ,  
Lumber, .  

$ 
Rate per front foot, $ 

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
Abuttors, Frontage. Assessment.
J. F. Stapleton, feet, 
Holyoke Water Power Co. rro feet,  
Holyoke Water Power Co. feet,  
M. C. Pfahaler, feet,  
$ 
On Summer and Adan, east side of Summer and south side
of Adam.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ;  
Lumber, .  
$ 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment,
Ovid Choinere, feet, toe 
On Linden street, east side, between Dwight and Hampden.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot, 
Concrete, Sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ;  
Lumber, ,  
$ 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
John O’Connell, feet, 
Credit for curbing paid,  
On Pleasant street, east side, between Beacon avenue and
Hampden.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
Concrete,  sq. yards at cents per yard, 
Inspector, .  
Lumber, ,  
$ 
Rate per front foot, $ 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment,
E. A. Allyn, feet, 
E. Augustus Allyn,  
Franklin Greenwood,  
Maria Allyn, ‘§  
Total] assessment, . 
On I.inden street, east side, between Appleton street and
Essex.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, ,  
$ 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
Holyoke Water Power Co., feet, 
On Linden street, east side, between Essex and Cabot.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ,  
Lumber, .  
; 
Rate per front foot,  

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
M. C. Pfahler, feet, 
CC. S. Hemingway,  
$ 
Frank H. Metcalf, curbing, feet at cents,  

On Highland avenue, between Pearl and Nonotuck streets.
‘Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ,  
Lumber, ,  
$ 
Rate per front foot, $ 
Abuttors, Frontage. Assessment.
Henry Wesely, feet, 
J. A. Callahan,  

On Cabot street, south side, between Race and Main.

Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
‘Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, ,  
$ 
Rate per front foot, $ 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
‘Grace Chapel, feet, 
Extra concrete, ,  
Sir 

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
On Cabot street, north side, between Race and Main.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, Lo,  
Lumber, .  
$ 
Rate per front foot,  
Abuttors, Frontage. Assessment.
Athalia F. Parmelee, feet, .. 
John Cleary,  Ioo   
$ 
On Nonotuck street, east side, between Lincoln and Allyn.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 
Rate per front foot,  
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment,
Trustees Highland Church, roofeet, .. 
Frank H. Dibble,  
Frank H. Dibble,  
Julia Seaver,  
L. M. Gaylord, feet,  
$ 
On Linden street, west side, between Dwight and Suffolk.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
Inspector, . 
Lumber, ;  
$ 
Rate per front foot, $ 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
A. G. Wightman, feet, .. 
Jennie Bishop,   
J. M. Rutt,  
City of Holyoke,  
Holyoke Water Power Co.,  
Jennie Bishop,   
Credit for curbing paid,  
$ 
Hannah Hifle, feet, 
Credit for curbing paid,  
$ 
Caroline Capen, feet, 
Credit for curbing paid,  
$ 
E. P. Ford, feet, 
Credit for curbing paid,  
$ 
On Laurel street, north side, between Northampton and
Brown avenue. .

Labor of men and teams, . 
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ,  
Lumber, .  
$ 

Rate per front foot, Co,  :

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

Ab ors. Frontage. Assessment.
Gilbert Potvin,  
C. S. Lyman,   
George M. Prentiss,   
Mary A. Brown,   
Hattie Rogers,  ...  
Lucius Person,   
M. M. Downey,   @
Irena Van Valkenberg,   
J. J. O'Connor,   
Lorenzo Williston,   
J. J. O’Connor,   
Luther P. Trowbridge,   
Etta Perkins,   
John C. Best,   
John C. Best,   
A. T. Morse,   

S. B. Winchester,   
George C. Marsh,   

Wm. Catherine Mahoney,   

$ 

On Park street, west side, between Spring and Cabot streets.
Labor of men and teams, $ 

Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  

Total cost, . 

Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
Octave Gamache, feet, 
Credit for curbing paid,  

| 

Mr. Gamache agreed to pay total cost.

\
REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
On Northampton street, east side, between Laurel street and
Washington avenue.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, , 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment,
Gilbert Potvin, Sr., feet, 
Mr. Potvin agreed to pay total cost.
On northeast corner of Appleton and Chestnut streets.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Inspector, .  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
$ 
Abuttors. Frontage. Assessment.
Lucy D. Fortier, feet, 
Agreed to pay total cost.
Clinton avenue and Miller street. ;
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 
Abuttors. Frontage.: Assessinent.
Wm. Slattery, ft. at soc. per front ft. 
P. T. O'Reilly, ‘ft. at Soc. per front ft.  
J. T. and A. F. Richards, feet front at cents,  
Thos. N. Hafey, +feet front at cents,  
Thomas and Mary Doyle, feet front at cents,  
Mary Sullivan,  feet front at cents,  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
Elizabeth Mitchell,  feet front at cents, 
Michael J. Finn, feet front at cents,  
Margaret Doyle, feet front at cents,  
Ellen M. Doyle, feet front at cents,  
SIDEWALKS RECOVERED IN  .
| Street. Side. Between Sq. Yards. Cost. 
Canal East Lyman and Mosher streets 
Chestnut  T.ymanand Hampden streets  
Chestnut West Appleton and Suffolk streets  
Dwight North First&Second Level Canals 
Dwight “e Front and High streets  
Essex “e Maple and Chestnut streets  
Hampden Maple and Chestnut streets  
Hampden ‘“ Chestnut and Elm streets  
Hampden ‘“ Walnut and Pine streets  
Hampshire Walnut and Pine streets  
High East Oliver and Hampden streets  
High  Dwight and Suffolk streets  
High  Division and Appleton streets Si. 
High West Appleton and Fssex streets  
Main Mosher and Dwight streets  
Maple Appleton and Essex streets  
Pleasant Hampden and Allyn streets  
Suffolk South Chestnut and Elm streets   
PLANS, MAPS, PROFILES ANI) SPECIFICATIONS PREPARED) AND PLACED ON FILE.
SEWERS.

Plan and profile of Canal and Mosher street sewer.

Plan and profile of Lyman street sewer.

Plan and profile of South street sewer.

Plan and profile of the Front street sewer.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  

Plan and profile of sewer in alley between Bristol place and
Franklin street.

Plan and profile of Appleton street sewer from Front street to
alley rear of Chestnut and Elm streets.

Plan and profile of sewer in alley rear of High and Commercial
streets between Cabot street and Worcester place.

Plan and profile of sewer in Canby street between Beacon
avenue and West Hampden street.

Plan and profile of sewer in Chestnut street from Fountain
street to Prospect street.

Plan and profile of sewer in Fountain street from Maple street
to Chestnut street.

Plan and profile of sewer in alley between Maple and Chestnut
streets, from Appleton street northerly. ,

Plan and profile of sewer in alley rear of Elm and Chestnut
streets southerly from Appleton street sewer.

Plan and profile of sewer in Waldo street between Beacon avenue and West Hampden street.

MISCELLANEQUS.

Plan of main corridor in City Hall flooring.

Vian showing proposed changes for City Hall entrance on
High street. )

Plan and specifications for Almshouse sheds.

Plan and profile of Holyoke Westfield Railroad tracks from
Dwight street southerly.

Plan and elevation of proposed railroad bridge on Jackson street.

Plan and profile of Cabot street for vitrified brick paving.

Plan and profile of Magnolia street from Sargeant street to
Franklin street.

Plan and specifications for proposed toilet rooms in Carlton
Street and School street schoolhouses.

Plan of Lyman mills property for Assessors.

Plans and specifications for Almshouse laundry.

Plan and specifications for City Hall storm doors.

Plan and profile of proposed new street to Almshouse.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

Plan for rounding off the sidewalk at the northeast corner of
Dwight and High streets.

Plan for rounding off the sidewalk at the southwest corner of
Dwight and Main streets.

Plan for rounding off the sidewalk at the southwest corner of
High and Hampden streets.

Plans and specifications for office for Board of Public Works.

Plan and specifications fcr City Clerk’s office changes.

Plan and specifications for City Engineer’s office changes.

Plan and profile of St. Jerome avenue between Dwight street
and Sargeant street.

Plan and profile of Charles street extension from Washington
avenue to Laurel street.

Plan and profile for widening High street from Fountain to
Prospect streets.

Plan and profile of proposed street connecting Dwight street
and Beacon avenue.

Plan and profile of Bowers street from Appleton street to
Bowers and Mosher streets line.

Plan and profile of Samosett street from Lowers street to
Center street.

Plan and profile of James street from Main street to H. W.
R. R. line.

Plan and profile of proposed street connecting Bh and
Walnut streets, Elmwood.

Plan and profile of West street from Pequot street to Bowers
and Mosher streets line. )

Plan and profile of Allen street from Elm street to Chapin
street.

Plan and profile of Beacon avenue from Pleasant street to
Northampton street.

Plan and profile of Chestnut street from Franklin street to
Sargeant street.

Plan and profile of Franklin street from Linden street to St.
Jerome avenue.

Plan and profile of Franklin street from Chestnut street to
Commercial street.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
Plan and profile of Glen street from Brown avenue to Northampton street.
Plan and profile of Locust street from Sargeant street to
Franklin street.
Plan and profile of Linden street from Sargeant street to
. Bh street.
Plan and profile of Pequot street from point feet east of
West street to Bowers street.
Plan and profile of Pearl street from Highland avenue to
Madison avenue.
Plan and profile of View street from Brown avenue to Northampton street.
Plan and profile of Glen street from Brown avenue to Northampton street.
' Plan and profile of Sycamore street from Hampshire street to
Franklin street.
Plan showing the electric (arc) lights throughout the city.
Plan showing the oil and gas lights throughout the city.
Plan showing location of sewers throughout the city.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
BUILDING INSPECTOR.

Section  Chapter of the Revised Ordinances of  ,
provides that “‘ the city engineer shall be the inspector of buildings
provided for in Section  Chapter  Pub. Stat., or Section of
Chapter  Acts of  .”

The following is statement of buildings erected after the
revised ordinances were adopted, from plans which were approved
before said ordinances took effect :—

OwnNeER. BuILLER. ARCHITECT. LocaTion.
| ee
E. F. Nugent.......... vreinene LaClair &iG pp. stacrmanlotan and Masher Sts.

 Laliberte Bros......... Lalaberte Bros.......... “‘ 'Bond and Essex Sts.
Eugene Morfarty....... Not yet built.......  ... ““ |Bristol Pl.and Comer'l St.
J. Fo Sullivan. ........../  fone  Walnut St.

J. F. Sullivan... ......... Stetson Sons... . [Pleasant St.
Patrick O'Connell, ......) Laliberte Bros. ......... Summer and Adams Sts.
John O'Connell.......... Laliberte Bros......... Lyman St.
DPD. J. OBnen.......... J.P. Rachards.......... jWest St.
M.H. Baker............ MoH. Baker... ee, Locust St.
L. Cloutier. ...... ....  J. Beaudry. ...   'Main St.
Lucy D. Fortier.........! Lak rance  ... [Clough Reid.... Applet’n and Ch’stn’t Sts.
Mrs. Patrick J. Landers, D. J. Landers. ..........)F. A. Ellsworth... Bh St.
Sullivan Wesely...... Laliberte Bros....-.e...(Clough Reid....(High St.
MR. Dalton. .......... Dowd Bros. ........ ...-)P. ML. Lynch......[ Main St.
rf B. Mackey... ese... Lynch Bros... eu... eed  . (Pine St.
V.H Barlow........ .. W. A. Barlow... o.oo... Lyman St.
D. O'Connell Sons....; O'Connell Sons.../E. A. Ellsworth... |Linden St.

Following is statement of plans and specifications for new
buildings that have been approved by the City Engineer since the
adoption of the Revised Ordinances.”’

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
STATISTICS OF CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASS.,  .
Population Dec.  (State census),  
Population May  (school census),  
Number of voters,  
Number ofgpalis..    Sr
——j]
|
 
Mrs. George A.
John A, Callah
Gilbert Potvin,
Michael O’Neil
Thomas F. Gre
Octave Gamache .
Mrs. C.N. Deraj
Stetson Son .d
Jeremiah Hager
—————
woe er VU (napntna),  yoo
[ Incandescent, |
Dwelling houses, .
Schoolhouses, . ws  
Business colleges,  
Churches,  
Police stations, . I
. |

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
BUILDING INSPECTOR.
a near mn —}
|
|

Wu hese ae WEE appruveU Vy te Lily AUB IMCCL siuce buc
of the Revised Ordinances.”

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
STATISTICS OF CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASS.,  .
Population Dec.  (State census),  
Population May  (school census),  
Number of voters,  
Number of polls,  
Public schools enrollment (day),  
Public schools enrollment (night), 
Parochial school enrollment,  
Area of city,   sq. miles
Greatest extent north and south,  
Greatest extent east and west,  
Park areas, . acres
County roads, - miles
City streets, Vnaeceptea miles,  “
Vitrified brick pavement,   *
Macadam roads, tae  
Granite block pavement,   **
Asphalt block pavement,   *§
Sidewalks and crossings,   '!
Water mains, . *
Streets watered,   
Sewers, ,  *
River front,   *
Electric railroads,  
Steam railroads,   “
Railroad stations,  
Electric, |
Street lights, Oil (naphtha),   
Incandescent, J

Dwelling houses,  
Schoolhouses, ,  
Business colleges,  
Churches, , 
Police stations, , I

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

Fire alarm boxes,  

Fire engine houses,  

Hook and ladder trucks,  

Fire hydrants, wo  
Postoffices, . I

Area assessed, . acres

, Real estate, 
Valuation, Personal, $ 
Tax rate, .  on  .

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
| gg ga iililisiises |.
| Ey QB QA iP  :HE§ iy
: Rh e@  wt pe wn
|  oe  wp

en maoocnwo jo) oO

a  eM ELMS ADB ALS RSS F

oO” ANNAN KNHMN Ee KN AK eG “

et ames AO AMMMAAMAMO  OM "
-  Sid

Pur  tg  w
| dey isae eregres
|   LIQgn tO ree TO et aN
a
e ea ee
ev eo
Ct es Pt @ tsesseres
| en
e e@
'  a
ne zuy :: 
, Pas DED
— ce [iP  
‘  
a

 onogosd .

& sy saaevegcesge

OR NA ORO KHRARS mee RAR

Bom. ae  MaAaamMmoardwa haa

so) a
ae Vey

Uw oe dieeen en en|

aD) s:sers sr 
oun bs an tw
 |i ae geccaceggnn na
ay BRERA 
wo PRMCCCCCCCCERCICES:
) MATH MH WOON RHR AW
t  to ig fi  :  
C OS  
he -—   
oD) oe  g
  eS kl:  
& mie sisi ita  a
 te fen IER! cL
NY GL LHRSL VES :As  Og
rt) aercocrvuS- +
  Su aS LO Ua
Y) Ce UpRE TESS *
rb) Fe UsE Eee (OF
ou on yee gee ‘y
Y) Ko ob. dur Ue ax
VY) CRO RPCODEBVE ks sed
£  Sace  SIAZLSS he Ax
a ee
“ “a 
om os bd  
be rT) e
a joa}  ba .
iD)  
s F
. rs) Oo &
' g
Y Ss -:  ogg as
YS) ce  s:  

@  Oy: o$ y

cS Of  

  fe Es  

ro) ew? we)

om fx. o: aa, sa:  oes

 OL  ry) 

rv)  Se Ld oe] 

 .m jeoge® v

ze Nee oe  —
-OE YW mS )
eaeG-e.- .-. +. UL. .
Parte rr tre see Ss 
vaso mn  
-  S
“  sr  : Ges v
or YY Satan E
wn

e  

rs)  AMOMAM—AMS
-  MH .

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
|
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF THE CITY.
ee
 OF |
tani med  Area of “£  Width of Area o
Location.ae Roadway.  Walk. Walks. |
ar  ”
a +} ——- -.
South Hadley Falls (county bridye)' |
BspansS.... cc   ec cec .|  ft. sq. ft. ft. sq. ft. |
Bridge street at Valley mill ......... ft. sq. ft. ft,  in.  Mt.
Lyman street over ist level canal... .. ft. sq. ft. ft.  ,qho sq. ft,
Lyman street over  nd level canal .. ft. sq. ft. ft.  go Sq. It |
Dwight street over rst level canal
(granite road and concrete walk? ft. sq. ft. ft.  co sq. {t.
Dwight street over  nd level canal
(granite road and plank walk)... ft. sq. ft.  ft.  ,no q. ft.
Appleton street over rst level canal... ft. sq. fr. ft. $q. ft.
Appleton street over  nd level canal... ft. sq. ft.  ft.  sq. ft.
Cabot street over rst level canal ..... ft. sq. ft ft. $q. ft.
Cabot street over  nd level canal. ... ft. sq. ft. ft. $q. ft
Sargeant street over  nd level canal..: ft. Sq, ft. ft. sq. ft.
Main street over grd level canal......]  ft. sq. ft. ft. $q. ft.
Cabot strect over ard level canal! |
‘gramite road and concrete walk)! ft. sq. ft.  ft. $q. ft.
Willimansett bridge (county) {
seas cid bridie Cappraneny ft. sq. ft. ft. sq.
Willimansett bridge (approach) ..... ft. sq. ft. ft. T,fiog sq te
Foot bridge over B. M. R. R.! fi
tracks at Dwight street..........| te ft. Sq. Fl
ee |—— |
Totals, ft.! sq. ft.  
nn


