REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  

STREETS ACCEPTED TO DECEMBER .
Length
Street. From. To. in Feet.
Adams street, Canal street, Main street,  
Appleton street, Canal street, Dwight street,  
Beacon avenue, Pleasant street, Northampton street,  
Bh street, Dwight street, Northampton, Street,  
Bond street, Appleton street, Cabot street,  
Bowers street, I.yman street, Rowers and Mosher line,  
Bridge street, County bridge, East Dwight street,  
Bridge street, Cabot street, Canal street,  
Brooks avenue, Hampden street, O’Connor avenue,  
Brown avenue, South street, ‘The Dingle,”  
Cabot street, Willimansett bridge, Locust street,  
Canal street, ].yman street, Lyman street,  
Canal street, Cabot street, Main street,  
Carlton street, Chapin street, Northampton street,  
Center street, Canal street, Samosett street,  
Chapin street, Gates street, Washington avenue,  
Charles street, South street, Laurel street,  
Chestnut street, Prospect street, Sargeant street,  
Clinton avenue, Miller street, Dwight street.  
Commercial street, Cabot street, Jackson street,  
Crescent street, Appleton street, Park street,  
Dwight street, Main street, Northampton street, 
East street, Canal street, East Dwight street,  
East street, Crescent street, Park street,  
East Dwight street, Bridge street, Bowers street,  
Elm street, Prospect street, Sargeant street,  
Ely street, Summer street, Bowers street,  
Fountain street, Front street, Elin street,  
Tranklin street, Linden Street, St. Jerome avenue,  
Front street, [Lyman street, Dwight street,  
Glen street, Brown avenue, Northampton street, gl 
Grover street, Canal street, J.yman street,  
Ffaniulton street, Canal street, Race street,  
Ilampden street, Front street, Northampton street,  
Hampshire street, Commercial street, Sycamore street,  
High street, Prospect street, Franklin street,  
Jackson street, Canal street, Main street,  
James Street, Main street, H. W. R. R. Line,  
John street. Front street, High street,  
Laurel street, Brown avenue, Northampton street,  
Lincoln street, Taylor street, Northampton street,  

a

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
Linden street, Hampden street, Bh street,  
Locust street, Cabot street, Franklin street,  
Lyman street, Canal street, Prospect street,  
Magnolia street, Sargeant street, Franklin street,  
Main street, Race street, Prew avenue,  
Maple street, Prospect street, South street,  
Miller street, Hampden street, Clinton avenue,  
Mosher street, Bridge street, Main street,  
Newton street, Appleton street, Cabot street,  
Nonotuck street. Highland avenue, lwight street,  
Northampton street, Northampton line, Ingleside street,  
Oak street, Dwight street, Sargeant street,  
O’Connor avenue, Brooks avenue, Dwight street,  
Oliver street, Front street, High street,  
Park street, Crescent street, Canal street,  
Pearl street, Highland avenue, Hampden street,  
Pine street, Lyman street, Sargeant street,  
Pleasant street, ‘- The Dingle,’’ Appleton street,  
Plymouth street, Commercial street, Alley eastof High,  
Prospect street, Front street, Kh street,  
Race street, Main street, Sargeant street,  
Russell terrace, Carlton street, South street,  
St. Jerome avenue, Dwight street, Sargeant street,  
Sargeant street, Canal street, Northampton street,  
South street, Main street, Northampton street,  
Spring street, Park strect, Race street,  
Suffolk street, Railroad street, Appleton street,  
Summer street, Lyman street, Ely street,  
Summer street, Cabot street, Canal street,  
Sycamore street, Hampshire street, Franklin street,  
Taylor street, Hampden street, of Hampien strect  
Union street, Prospect street, Lyman street,  
Vernon street, Main street, H. W. R. R. line,  
View street, Brown avenue, Northampton street,  
Walnut street, Lyman Street, Sargeant street,  
West street, Ely street, Pequot street.  
Willow street, Brown avenue, Laurel street,  
Worcester place, Commercial street, The alley east of Iligh st.  

leet, 

Miles, 

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
AREA OF CITY PROPERTY.
SCHOOLHOUSE LOTS.

Appleton street school, sq. ft.
Back street school, ‘“
Bridge street school,   *
Carlton street school, ‘
Chestnut street school,  
East Dwight street school, *
Hamilton street school, *
High school (EIm street), *
High school (Pine street), *
Ingleside school,   *
Lyman street school,   *
Nonotuck street school, *
Park street school, *
Sargeant street school, *
School street school,   *
South street school,   *
South Chestnut street school, *
Springdale school (hose house), ‘
Temple street school,   “
West street school, “
West Holyoke school, “
Total area, Lo,  *

ENGINE HOUSE LOTS.

Ward  Canal street (Mt. Tom), sq. ft.
Ward  Main street (Relief),  
Ward  South street (Dexter Hose), *
Ward  Chestnut street (Emerald), *
Ward  Haigh street, *
Ward  .. West Hampden street (Highlands), ‘“
Total area,   *

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
PARKS.
Canonchet Park,   sq. ft.
Elmwood Park,   “
Germania Park,   ‘*
Hamilton Park,   *
Hampden Park,  
Prospect Park,   “
Park at junction of Appleton and Dwight streets, “
“ es Suffolk *
  Laurel ‘“ Willow “
ik
Total park area,   “
  acres
MISCELLANEOUS.
City hall lot, $  sq. ft.
City yard, . “
City gravel bank,   acres.
Almshouse farm,  
Pest house farm,   “
NEW ROAD RECOMMENDATION.

Owing to the extent of the work at the Almshouse under the
supervision of this department, my attention has been directed to
the imperative need of better road between the city and that
locality.

The heavy grades on the roads to the Poor Farm are not only a
great inconvenience, but source of extra expense in the transportation of all supplies. ‘The cost of materials for the new additions
and improvements at the Almshouse was considerably more than for
the same materials delivered on the lower Springfield road at Ingleside terrace, all because teams are obliged to double up in order to
reach the Poor Farm. Lumber and brick were each  more per
thousand delivered at the Almshouse, and all other materials in like
proportion.

. REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
But of even greater importance than the consideration of expense is the hindrance these heavy grades presentto prompt assistance from the Fire Department in case of fire at the Almshouse. I
question if there is pair of horses in the Fire Department that
could pull the Elmwood steamer Number  the nearest to the Poor
Farm, up Griffin’s Hill ’’—which is just below the Almshouse—and
with four inches of snow on the ground, question if the Fire Department has team that could haul the lightest engine in the
department up that hill. With  worth of city property in
this quarter, without insurance, this menace must not be ignored.
During the summer new eight-inch water main was laid to the
buildings and hose purchased and placed in convenient places.
But, although we have the water and hose, we are unable to fight
fire because the pressure of seventeen to nineteen pounds is not
sufficient. We must have steamer before fire fighting will be
effective, and this leads me to suggest new road between Elmwood
and the Almshouse. have thoroughly explored and surveyed the
district west of Northampton street from South street to the Almshouse, and find that new road, fulfilling all the conditions of the
ideal route to that place, can be built at very small cost. Starting
at the east side of the Westfield road, at point about feet
southerly from the Merrick farmhouse, or about feet from
Northampton street, thence running southerly in nearly straight
line through the Hitchcock estate, the Ball and Netherwood tract,
the lands of Bray, Oscar Ely, Wm. Whiting, Crehan and the city
farm, we come to the road formerly known as West street. The
distance by this line from the corner of Northampton and South
streets to the Almshouse is feet, while the distance between
the same points by the Springfield or Ingleside roads is exactly  
feet, saving of feet in distance. But the great advantage in
the proposed route is in the easy grades. The highest point of
land on the proposed route is only feet (city datum) and the
elevation at the corner of Northampton and South streets is  
feet, making difference in elevation of only fifty-two feet in disstance of feet. From the highest point to the Almshouse we
have continuous easy fall of about two feet per feet and in no
instance does the natural fall of the ground exd three per cent.

|
  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER. .
grade. By the present routes we encounter grade of fourteen feet
per roo feet on the steepest part of Griffin’s hill, and on Whiting’s
hill grade of three feet per roo feet.
The cost of grading the proposed road would be very small,
owing to the very even natural surface, which would render necessary Only small amount of cutting and filling. In fact, for the
greater part of the whole distance it would be only necessary to
remove the sod and give shape to the surface, as the ground is of |
the same character as is used for graveling our country roads. !
Plans and profiles of this proposed road are on file in the City :
Engineer’s office. |
I trust that your board will give this matter your serious
consideration, |
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. |
In conclusion, desire to acknowledge my appreciation of the
courtesy and co-operation extended this department by His Honor,
Mayor Smith, the Board of Aldermen and the heads of the several
departments with whom have been associated.
Respectfully,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
City Engineer.

FIRST ANNUAL REPORT
) OF THE
OF THK
CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASS.
FOR THE YEAR  .
TO HIS HONOR THE MAYOR, AND THE HONORABLE
THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
KESBIAE?
Wee
j, ey
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
Grivritu, Axtatt Capy Co.
 .

/

Appointed January by his honor, the Mayor, under the
provisions of Title Six, Section Thirty-four of an Act to Revise the
Charter of the City of Holyoke.

Organised January .
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
JAMES H. NEWTON, Chairman,
MICHAEL F. WALSH,
WILLIAM B. REID.
CLERK.
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK, City Engineer.
ASSISTANT CLERK.
OSCAR C. FERRY.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR WORK.
HENRY WINKLER.
INSPECIOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
F. H. GILPATRICK.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. |
THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
APPOINTED BY THE MAYOR.
James H. Newton, Chairman, Term Expires February, ,
Michael F. Walsh, Term Expires February,  
William B. Reid, Term Expires February,  
CLERK.
John J. Kirkpatrick, City Engineer, Term expires February,  
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Oscar C. Ferry; elected January by the Board of Public
Works, under civil service.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR WORK.
Henry Winkler, Superintendent; elected January by the
Board of Public Works. Office under civil service.
FOREMEN. |
William Rooney, First Foreman appointed by Superintendent |
of Streets, under civil service. ,
Maurice F. Warren, Second Foreman; elected by Board of Public
Works March under civil service.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
Fred H. Gilpatrick, term expires February,  appointed by
the Mayor.
LAMPLIGHTER.
Peter J. Kingsley, elected by the Board of Public Works January  ,
  term expires March .

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
OFFICE OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
ROOM NO.  CITY HALL.
HOLyokE, Mass., I)ecember .
To His Honor the Mayor, and the Honorable the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke.
GENTLEMEN :—The Board of Public Works herewith annexed
 presents for your consideration its first annual report. Said report
contains the appropriations granted this board by the City Government and the expenditures made in the several departments under
its direction and control, viz.: Highways and Bridges, Sidewalks,
Fuel and Street Lights, Sewers and Drains and City Property subdivided as follows: Almshouse addition, Board of Public Works
Contingent account, City Hall Fund account, Furnishing Almshouse
addition, High School appropriation, Nonotuck Street School
Heating and Ventilating account, Paving, Street Watering and the
Account of Ward One School appropriation.
The Board of Public Works was appointed by Hon. George
H. Smith, Mayor, on the fourth day of January, current, by virtue
of the power conferred upon the Mayor by the Revised City Charter, and the members qualified before the City Clerk on the afternoon of the same day. The board was called together at o’clock
p. m., January by Mr. John J. Kirkpatrick, clerk, for
organization. The certificate of appointment was presented by Mr.
Edward A. Kane, City Clerk, as follows, viz. :—

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

[Copy Crry oF HOLYOKE, MASSACHUSETTS,

City CLerk’s OFFice, January .
John J. Kirkpatrick, Esq., Clerk of Board of Public Works.

DEAR SiR :—You are hereby notified that the Mayor has made

the following appointments to the Board of Public Works :—
James H. Newton, to serve for three years.

Michael F. Walsh, to serve for two years.

William B. Reid, to serve for one year.

I hereby certify that the above named gentlemen have duly
qualified as members of said board.

Yours truly, |
(Signed) EDW. A. KANE,
City Clerk.
fhe first meeting of the year was held in the office of the |

Mayor, and was called to order by Mr. Kirkpatrick, who requested
the members to select permanent chairman. ‘This was done in
the choice of Mr. James H. Newton, the senior member of the
board. The special duties of each member were temporarily
assigned as follows: Chairman Newton should have general oversight of the Departments of Highways and Bridges, Street Watering
and Sidewalks Commissioner Walsh to have the management of
the Departments of Sewers and Drains and Fuel and Street Lights ;
Commissioner Reid to have the management of the City Property
Department. It was agreed that no repairs or expenditures in any
of the departments should be made by any one individual member
of the board to an amount exding fifty ($ dollars without the
sanction or vote of the full board. Later in the year the temporary distribution of special over-sight was made permanent and the
affairs of the department have been conducted along this line.

It became evident at the beginning of the year that an assistant in the office was necessary to carry out the office work, and early
in January last civil service examination was held for candidates
for the position. Qn the twenty-second of that month the assistant

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
clerk, Oscar C. Ferry, was elected, the names of the three men
standing the highest on the list having been duly certified to the
board by the Civil Service Commissioners.

The term of Superintendent of Streets Thomas F. Greaney
expired on March  current, and Henry Winkler, former Superintendent of Streets, was elected to the position of ‘“‘Superintendent
of Out-door Work.” After this appointment was made the Civil
Service Commissioners placed all superintendents and inspectors
under civil service rules, but as the rule did not take effect until
after the election of Mr. Winkler, an examination in his case was
unnecessary.

It has beeu only by the consent of the Civil Service Comissioners that the board has employed inspectors during the current
year. It had two occasions to call upon the board for the names of
men eligible to act as inspectors, namely for the inspection of the
construction of concrete sidewalks, and for the laying of the concrete foundation for the brick paving on Cabot street. In neither
case did the Civil Service Commissioners have an eligible list and
the board was directed to make provisional appointment for a
short time only.

The board early in the spring voted to hold two regular meetings each week, on Tuesday afternoons at o’clock and on Friday evenings at o’clock. These meetings have been held regularly with the exception of the month of August, when the Friday
meetings were omitted. total of meetings and hearings have
been held during the fiscal year from January  st to December rst.
The board has issued working cards and orders, permits,
  letters, and has prepared and executed thirty-seven contracts.

The office has been open to the public each week-day from
  a. m. until p. m., with the exception of Saturday afternoons
during the months of June, July, August and September, when it
was closed, as were all the other city offices, by the order of the

Board of Alderman. Besides being open at the above mentioned
hours it has been opened great many evenings, and is open regularly every Friday evening from to o’clock.

To fairly apportion the opportunity to work for the city, among
over applicants, when on the average less than twenty-five men

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

could be employed steadily, has been very perplexing task. The
nature of the work requires that certain number of men should
be given permanent work, so that changes could not be made as
often as the board would have been glad to make, and the opportunity for work to each applicant was consequently very limited.

Under the revised city charter the board has been required to
advertise for bids for doing much of the work in the several departments, and for time these bills were paid from the contingent account of the board, but it became evident when the busy season
opened that the fund was not sufficient to meet all of the demands
of this nature, so for the remainder of the year the advertising bills
were charged to the several departments to which they properly
belonged. Under ordinary circumstances the amount of money
given the contingent department this year would have been more
than sufficient for the needs of the department, but owing to the fact
that all of the record books, journals and office supplies had to be
purchased new this year the amount given it was inadequate to
meet the advertising bills and the other necessary expenditures.

Bills for advertising have been as follows, viz.: Paving department,  highways and bridges department, fuel and
lighting department, almshouse addition account, ;
city hall fund department, city property department,
$ almshouse furnishing department, sidewalk department, and contingent department, Total
amount paid for advertising, .

APPROPRIATIONS, RECEIPTS, BALANCES AND OVERDRAFTS.

The total receipts in all departments and accounts of which
the board has had any control during the year were ,
and the total expenditures were The balances amount
to while there are overdrafts to the extent of ,
divided thus: Board of Public Works contingent account,  ;
city property, highways and bridges, The total
appropriations, transfers and receipts, expenditures, balances and
overdrafts by departments are as follows, viz.: —

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Appropriations,
Transfers and
Reccipts. Expenditures, Balance. Overdraft.
Almshouse addition,   
Board of Public Works contingent,   
City Hall fund,   wec 
City property,  ......  
Furnishing almshouse,   we
Fuel and Street Lights,   ec 
Highways and Bridges,   weee  
High School appro., (&)  .  
Nonotuck School heating, (c) we   
Paving,   wee  
Sidewalks, (b) sees
Sewers and Drains,   
St. Jerome avenue, etc.,  ,.  ce caee
Street watering, ,F  
Widening High street.   wc  
Ward One School appro., (c) we  
Totals,  
(a) Includes balance on hand December and special
loan made this year only.
(b) Includes  transferred to Highways and Bridges.
(c) Balance on hand December .
Amount of appropriations and transfers, 
Amount of expenditures,  
Balance unexpended, . 
Overdrafts,  
Net unexpended balance, . 
A review of the work done in all the departments under the
board and the expenditures in the several departments in detail
follows :-—

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.

Hicuways :—A large number of streets have been graveled
during the year, the cost of which is contained in the detailed list
of expenditures given further along in this report.

The first coating of gravel should be six inches thick, with the
coarser material at the bottom and the finer on top, shoveled over
and raked so as to make the surface smooth and straight on lines
lengthwise with the street and of uniform width, and then rolled
down hard with the steam roller. All cobble-stones should be
thrown out.

Graveled streets require fresh coating of gravel of about half
an inch thick every year to replace the waste caused by the grinding of
the wheels and horses’ feet, and from wind and water carrying off the
finer material upon the adjoining land or into the gutters or sewers.

The wheels of all heavy vehicles should have tires six inches
wide. The two new watering carts have tires six inches wide, also
the two new sanitary catch-basin carts.

The road scrapers should be used upon the city streets to
remove the worn-out material into the gutters to be carried off toa
dumping heap, and then new material supplied.

The paved streets should be thoroughly washed by water from
the hydrants as often as once week at least during the warm season
forthe health and comfortof the people. This should be done during
the night time, so as not to interfere with the street traffic.

The country roads should be sloped up with the road scrapers
and then the grass allowed to grow on the sides, and the narrow
roadway, seven feet wide, should be repaired by carting on
suitable road material. Worn-out material and turf scraped up
from the sides of the road are worthless for repairing roads.

Bripces :—The entire length of all of the bridges across the
river and over the canals covered by planking is feet. The
cost of maintaining so many bridges reaches Jarge sum of money
every year. ‘lhe upper planking has to be renewed on the average
every third year and the under planking every six years, requiring
an annual average of nearly feet of new planks.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

The question of using kyanized lumber for the under planking
on account of its superior durability is under consideration by the
board. Also some experiments will be made ina small way the
coming year to decide what sort of planking is the most economical
for the top course.

The iron work of the portions of the two iron bridges across
the river belonging to the city have been thoroughly repaired and
repainted. As these were the more costly bridges and were in great
need of repair the board deemed it advisable to spend the money
that could be devoted to this purpose on them rather than upon
the smaller bridges across the canals. .

The question of building new iron bridge or stone arch bridge
over the canal near the Valley mill was considered by the board, but
the expense was so great that it was deemed advisable to repair the
old wooden bridge, and this was done at the small expense of .
Competent judges say that it will do good service for five years to
come. This bridge was re-planked in October last, both the bottom
and upper courses, at cost of .

PAYROLIS AND BILLS.

Month. Receipts. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
December, ......  
January, as   
February,   
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,     - 
August,  . 
September,  
October,  
November,  

Total,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Amount expended by City Forester. in Forester’s De' partment and Elm Tree Beetle Department, .. 
Total amount of bills, Highway Department, 
Total payrolls,  
Total receipts Highway Department, 
Total expenditures Highway Department,  
Amount required to balance account, 

COST OF MAINTAINING THE CITY TEAMS.

The cost of maintaining the city teams, including the repairs

made upon the carts, harnesses, etc., and medicine was ,
divided as follows, viz.: —
Hay, grain, etc., $ 
Repairs, supplies, etc.,  
Shoeing, ,  
Medicine and medical attendance,  

Total, , 

HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.

The larger items of expense in this department were as follows :—
Cleaning crosswalks, , 
Repairing highways,  
Cleaning streets,  
Care of city yard,  
Building culvert Maple street (December,  ),  
Repairing bridges,  
Cleaning gutters,  
Repair and care of country roads,  
Repair and care of road at Almshouse,  
Removing snow from streets, 
Salary of O. C. Ferry, assistant clerk, in part,  

REPORT OF KOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. 

Taking account of travel on Springfield and Chicopee
roads, . 
Repairing Springfield road,  
Repairing Northampton street,  
Repairing Cabot street,  
Repairing Essex street,  
Repairing Sargeant street,  
Repairing South Hadley Falls bridge, ..  
Painting South Hadley Falls bridge,  
Repairing Pine street,  
Repairing Suffolk street,  
Repairing Appleton street,  
Repairing Chestnut street,  
Repairing Dwight street,  
Repairing Maple street,  
Repairing Lincoln street,  
Repairing Bh street, g. I
Repairing Park street,  
Repairing Canal street,  
Repairing Locust street,  
Repairing paving,  
- Repairing Mosher street,  
Repairing Lyman street,  
Repairing East Dwight street,  
Repairing Elm street,  
Cobbling gutters,  
Repairing Nonotuck street,  
Repairing crosswalks,  
Repairing Hampden street,  
Planking Valley bridge,  
Repairing Valley bridge,  
Repairing Cherry street,  
Erecting danger signs on private streets,  
Repairing Willimansett bridge,  
Painting Willimansett bridge,  
Grading West street,  
Erecting street signs,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PURLIC WORKS.
CITY FORESTER DEPARTMENT.
The work in this department has been under the direction of
Mr. D. H. Newton, who was elected City Forester early in the summer. Mr. Newton also had charge of exterminating the elm tree
beetle. The expenses in these two departments are shown below.
Payrolls and bills, City Forester :—

Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
May,   
June,  
July, —.. vee  

Total,   
Appropriation from highways and bridges, 
Expenditures, ,  
Balance unexpended, Loo 

ELM TREE BEETLE. |

Payrolls and bills, elm tree beetle :—

Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
July,   
August,  

$ 
Transfer from H. and B., 
Disbursements,  
Balance,  transferred back to H. and B.
ST. JEROME AVENUE.

St. Jerome avenue was opened this year between Sargeant
street and Dwight street at cost given below, which includes the
cost of the work done on Charles street.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

Payrolls and bills, St. Jerome avenue, Charles street and Canby
street extensions :—

Month, Payrolls, Land Damages. Total.
July, claims paid, Lee    
August,  ose   
September,    

Total,    
Appropriation, $ 

Disbursements :—

Land damages, . 
Payrolls,  
———  
Balance unexpended, . 
This balance is held to meet claim of S. B. Winchester.
HIGH STREET WIDENING.

High street was widened thirty feet between Fountain street
and Prospect street, which gives the street uniform width. ‘The
cost is shown below.

Payrolls and bills, High street widening :— |

Paid on Claims for

Month. Land Damages. Payrolls. Total.
July, ..   
September,  wees 
October,  eens  
November,  

Total,   
Appropriations, . 
Expenditures, .  
Balance unexpended, $ 

Balance due the Higgins estate, .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
CROSSWALKS.

Nine crosswalks have been constructed during the past year at
a cost of ‘The walks constructed at the beginning of the
year were built of selected common brick, which cost  per
thousand delivered on the ground, while the walks that were built
during the fall were of vitrified paving brick costing  per
thousand. They were laid upon firm sand or gravel foundation
and grouted with Portland cement. The walks have been constructed upon new principle designed by the board, and which,
it is believed, will do away with much of the unpleasant jolting of
carriages which pass over the walks. cross section of the walk
should show on the upper side one convex arc between two concave
arcs, the two concave arcs terminating in tangents in conformity
with the lines of the street surface.

The brick upon each side of the walk should be retained in
place by layer of broken trap-rock at least twelve inches wide and
six to eight inches deep, well hammered down. Crosswalks built in
this manner will allow carriages and bicycles to pass rapidly over
them without jolts or bumps.

All crosswalks should be constructed upon gravel or sand
foundation at least eighteen inches thick, well rammed down. ‘The
board recommends that all crosswalks constructed in the future be
built in this manner, and of vitrified brick.

The locations of the crosswalks built this year are as follows,
V Z.: —

One on the east side of High street, across Oliver street.

(ne on the east side of lm street at Suffolk street.

One on the south side of Dwight street, across the alley between Race and Main streets.

One on the east side of High street at Hampden street.

One on the east side of Arlington street at Lincoln street.

One on the west side of Pearl street at Fairfield avenue.

One on the west side of Front street at Lyman street.

One on the north side of Beacon avenue, across alley between
Thorpe avenue and Pleasant street.

One on the north side of Appleton street, across alley between
Maple street and Chestnut street.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
GRAVELING STREETS.
The following streets were graveled at cost set opposite their
names, on the basis of an average thickness of three inches :—
Width of Length of No. of No. of Total cost of
Streets Streets Cubic Square Graveling
Graveled. Graveled. Yards. Yards, Each Street.
Cabot street, feet feet 
Essex ‘*  
Sargeant  
Pine  “* -' 
Suffolk 
Appleton ‘“ *€  
Chestnut ‘“ . 
Dwight  
Maple  
Linden  
Park  ‘*  
Canal *§ joo TI  
Locust  joo —- 
Mosher ‘*  
Lyman ‘* ‘“  
E.Dwight  
Elm ‘s . 
Non’tuck   feet 
Number of miles in length of streets graveled,  .
Average cost per cubic yard of gravel spread upon the streets
and rolled down with the steam roller,  cents.
Average cost per square yard,  cents.
GUTTERS. .
The cobble-stone gutters built in cost They
are located as follows :—
Lenxth.
East side of Bridge st., between Adams and Jackson sts., ft.
Fast side of Linden st., between Cabot and Essex sts., *
West side of Linden st., between Suffolk and Dwight sts., “

 REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Length.
West side of Linden st., between Cabot and Essex sts., ft.
South side of Essex st., between Bh and Linden sts., “
East side of Linden st., between Essex and Appleton sts., “
East and west sides of O’Connor ave., from Dwight st. north, “
Connection of Miller avenue and Clinton avenue, “
South side of Suffolk st., between Pine and Walnut sts., “
Northeast corner of Adams and Bridge sts., “
Southwest corner of Hampshire and Chestnut sts., “
Southwest corner of Hampden and Bh sts., “
South side of Hamilton st., between East Summer sts., west, “
  ft.
Or, sq. yds.

All gutters constructed in are three feet wide. Total cost, . 
Average cost per square yard,  -|REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

 ooc;s

ssec szeeqoaoqsooqoqgaonoxnys g\ 

& PSH SDANADIAN o|é w& Bo

SESS TSA EASSSRARRS ESR RAE

TABS WO YS Ow OD OD ed Od OD Ow  ls

om  fo) ot rea |S
Ass S)

. —) Seococ +o  
SeEFSSSSRSEFSSESSES  ws .
Sle QAacsearwrtoen Sons  ae is a
PES MBH ANN HN MNO Ne) Pm
  .

: Lo}
S, ui CrROENDBDWDON  
a &

. CO
o a
SENANNANRANNAANNAANAAH -
 @
sae vo   oe r)  yi
SPR FOOD oO YW a
swe EBECOCODONAHE oot  ra}
see Bese esaaSee agsg |A BLE
a  NA So Oo wo  OO wm a
SEBSRARZEMQASSVevelaan BES
o be eB
  gg
.  Fon)
rm) PoC oD CO SOOO COCO OC CO 'Oo ges
  Xx SOomowenHwsaecocomandd x
SS™SHANRARSSESLRSRS 
be on ie “
q FVM aig ONO AN AW od Ps w
DY  Roos a
; co i
Se Zn ananeseasagaasesess 
Mle Ras
(") oes
S- ron) eceoocooaocouHwonstng was
BERG HSRSRALSSSLSSSE 
C ceYe ie  
— Bee
m: s
‘  
Mes  
eget SCH: :ts  
- Sue i
 Br n
ao}

a  pe

SS e

g- 

om AS ft  a

Se ga egaet:. 

Parsee scosegeaece so 

YsRpeBane ofa Fz 

i Re eS  aS 

. SSeosgrtrvge FS gos |

  Os Sosa ere  HCH OS  ND
ev Ssst ess lei esse

N  oO —

SSP egt este e-esaera

  fist  spogszpezg ar wo

She Vw nTANHKH ANS e)

hpT Sy ZOD ropes la

SaNT TH RmANS FEZ OM

SS ry Fe snn .. Hn BE LS
“ee nnF®VM®   sn SSS &

  YP cCcocCMNn fe EM  ,

V eEeF sei csewuvr SFVMEEWLW SO

HEmeaearwtiegot en Sa

-  KZ AB  ease  

Sse FE Sper SEBS OSG 

O&A SeOCOCaskeS

AArmwABAdDdACETRnASs|m  fx
Ss  amaoeone  A
EERE PESELEE BEEF

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
STREET SIGNS.

At cost of  street signs were provided upon all of
the streets of the business section of the city. These signs are
neat in appearance and are attached to either electric light poles,
gas light posts or street railway poles. They are of galvanized iron
and brass. It is hoped that large number of these signs can be
placed in position during the coming year.

The board has caused to be erected upon all private streets,
signs which read as follows :—

“ DANGEROUS
NOT PUBLIC WAY.”

These signs were erected ata cost of and in compliance with law.

SIDEWALKS.

Sidewalks should be made of concrete or stone. The sidewalks
made of common brick are neither durable or desirable. They
absorb moisture freely and readily, and by freezing and thawing
are soon disintegrated and softened. The action of the frost
spreads them apart, and the earth beneath comes up through the
joints and renders the walk muddy and slippery.

The concrete walks should be at least four inches thick and
laid upon bed of gravel or sand at least eighteen inches in thickness, and the edges should be laid against wooden strips to forma
straight edge and straight surface measured lengthwise of the
walk. Parties who propose to put in walks themselves should follow

"the specifications made by the City Engineer and approved by the
board.

At the beginning of the season, the board decided that no
curbing should be set where concrete or stone walk was not
already in, or was not to be placed. schedule has been prepared of curbing, which was placed prior to January rst current,
where no walks of stone or concrete have been laid.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

Granite curbing has been purchased from John Frawley of
Erving, Mass., at contractiprice of forty cents per lineal foot for
straight curbing, and eighty cents per lineal foot for circles and
corners. Twenty dollars per set has been paid for catch-basin
stones. Three thousand feet more or less of curbing was contracted
for at the above price, and the following amounts have been set:
Straight curbing, lineal feet circular curbing, lineal feet ;
catch-basin stones, four sets.

All the stone was delivered f.  b. cars Holyoke, and hauled
to the streets where it was to be used ata contract price of three and
three-fourths cents per lineal foot. The contract for hauling the
curbing was given to Mr. A. Alvord.

The expenditures of this department by months were as
follows, viz.: —

PAYROLLS AND BILLS, SIDEWALK DEPARTMENT.

Months. Receipts. Payrolls. Bills. Total. .
December, wee    
January, see   
February, see weer  
March, oe 
April,     
May,  

| June,    
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  .g 

Total,  
Appropriation, —. , 
Transfer to highways and bridges,  
Available balance, ,  )
Receipts, ;  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Total net appropriation, transfers and receipts, 
Total expenditures,  
Balance unexpended, 
Some of the heavier items of expense in the Sidewalk Department follow :—
Repairing and laying cinder walks, 
Cleaning snow from walks, 
Running snow plow,  
Sanding walks,  
Cleaning walks,  
Sidewalk inspector,  
Salary O. C. Ferry, assistant clerk, in part,  
Repairing concrete walks,  
Building walk West street,  
Sidewalks have been constructed the past year at cost as
follows, viz. :—
O’Connor avenue, east side, between Dwight street and Brooks
avenue.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 
On Laurel street, north side, between Northampton street and
Brown avenue.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
. Lumber, .  
$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
On Cabot street, north side, between Race street and Main
street.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, ,  
Lumber, ;  
$ 
On Nonotuck street, east side, between Lincoln street and
Allyn street.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
| 
On Highland avenue, between Pearl street and Nonotuck street.
Labor of men and teams,   
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, ,  
$ 
On Cabot street, south side, between Race street and Main
street.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
On Linden street, east side, between Appleton street and
Essex street.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard, II 
Inspector, .  
Lumber, ,  
$ 
On Linden street, east side, between Essex street and Cabot
street. ,
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
On Linden street, east side, between Dwight street and Hampden street.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 
On Pleasant street, east side, between Beacon avenue and
Hampden street.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, ,  
$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
On Essex street, south side, between Bh and Linden streets.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, ;  
$ 
On Summer and Adams strzets, east side of Summer street and
south side of Adams street.

Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 
On Suffolk street, south side, between Bh and Oak streets.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 

Clinton and Miller avenues.
Labor of menand teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  
$ 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

On Northampton street, east side, between Liurel street and
Washington avenue.

Labor of men and teams, . 
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  
Lumber, .  

$ 

On Park street, west side, between Spring and Cabot streets.
Labor of men and teams, . 
Curbing, feet at cents per foot,  
Concrete, sq. yards at cents per yard,  
Inspector, .  

$ 
FUEL AND STREET LIGHTS.

The city’s contract with the Holyoke Water Power Company
for electric street lights expires July It will be necessary
for the board to make such arrangements as will be beneficial to
the city until such time as the city is in position to furnish its
own light and power in accordance with the vote passed at the
municipal election, December  current.

COST OF ELECTRIC STREET LIGHTS.

The cost of electric street lights for one year is as follows,
VIZ. :—

For mast arm lights at , 
For electric lights at  
Total, . 

The expenses in detail in this department are given below.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
PAYROLLS AND BILLS—-FUEL AND STREET LIGHTS.
Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
December,   
- January,  
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June, me  
July,  
August,  ..  
September,  
October,  
November,  
Total,  
Appropriation, , 
Transfers from schools,  
Total, , 
Total expenditures,  
Balance, $ 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
COST BY MONTHS OF STREET LIGHTS.

The cost by months of gas street lights, electric street lights,
electric bridge lights, oil, and the salary of the lamplighter and
repairs are herewith given :—

  as ef 

  Es vi g

a es zs m
Dec.   
Jan.  . 
Feb.  . 
Mar.’   
Apr.  . 
May,  . 
June,  . 
July,   
Aug.  - 
Sept. §- 
Oct.  . 
Nov.   

$  
Charge for electric street lights, 
Less amount deducted for time lights were not burning nights,  
Net cost of electric lights, .. 
Net cost of gas street lights,  
Net cost of electric bridge lights,  
Salary of lamplighter,  
Net cost of oil,  
Net cost of repairs,  

$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
STREET LIGHTS OUT—-ALLOWANCE.

The number of nights that the electric street lights were out
by months and the allowance made for the same is herewith annexed :— |

Number of

Month. Nights Out. Allowance.
December,   
January, Lo.  
February,  
March,  
April, ..  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  

Total,   
LOCATIONS OF ELECTRIC LIGHTS PLACED DURING  .
Prospect street, December 
Taylor street, near No.  December 
Hampshire and Chestnut streets (intersection), June 
Hampden and School streets, “c  
South Main street, near Ferry road, 
Northampton street, head of Morgan street,  
Race and Cabot streets (intersection), 
Taylor street, near No.  
William street and Allyn street (intersection), 
LOCATION OF NEW OIL LIGHTS.

One on Bh street near Northampton street.
One on Northampton street near the Whiting farm.
One on O’Connor avenue near the intersection of Brooks avenue.
One on the corner of Suffolk and Railroad streets.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
STATISTICS.
Number of electric arc lights, December  
Number of incandescent bridge lights, co.“  
Number of gas street lights, eo  
Number of oil street lights, “e eo  
COAL FOR CITY BUILDINGS.

Coal has been provided for the various city buildings at prices
as follows, viz.: Broken coal,  per gross ton; egg coal, 
per gross ton; stove coal,  per gross ton; soft coal,  per
gross ton. ‘The contract for this coal was made on the  th day
of June last, and the coal was delivered in all of the city buildings
during the summer vacation. There is now sufficient quantity of
coal in all of the buildings to last throughout the winter, and in
many of the buildings the supply now on hand is sufficient to last,
with proper management, till November rst of next year.

The board has made contract for the delivery of edgings to
the various buildings till June rst next, with Mr. William A. Chase, at
the rate of  per cord. This contract has just gone into effect,
and the advantages of this method can only be obtained by test. |
It suffices to say that, under this contract, the city is the gainer by
fifty cents per cord, as the regular price of edgings delivered in the
city buildings has been  per cord in the past.

The total cost of the coal purchased under the contract in
  was The several kinds purchased were diviced
as follows, viz.: Broken,  egg,  stove,  ;
soft,  which was distributed thus in the various buildings,
Viz. :—

DISTRIBUTION OF COAL IN CITY BUILDINGS.
Almshouse,   tons stove
Almshouse, . 
Appleton street school, “
Back street school, oe

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Bridge street school, tons cpg
Carlton street school, co“
City Hall,broken
West Dwight street school, epg
Elmwood (South street) school, &
Elmwood engine house, “
Emerald engine house, co
Hamilton street school, 
High School (new),  soft
High School (old), egg
High street engine house, &
Highland engine house,  &
Ingleside school, oo“
Lyman street school, &
Mt. Tom engine house, “
Nonotuck street school, &
North Chestnut street school, “* &
Park street school, é
Pest house, oc  
Relief engine house,  &
Sargeant street school, co“
School street school, co“
South Chestnut street school, &
Springdale school, te &
Springdale hose house,..  stove
West street school, broken
Marshall’s block, Highlands, stove
Keough’s block, Dwight street, eo“
Total gross tons,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
LOCATION OF STREET LIGHTS.
* Indicates mast arm lights.
 The location of electric street lights follows :-— |

Springdale, opposite ice house.

Main and Prew streets (intersection).

Temple street, opposite schoolhouse.

Main and Vernon streets (intersection).

Vernon street, opposite Turn Hall.

Meadow and Grant streets (intersection).

Main street and Ferry road  

Main and South streets “

South street, opposite Germania mill.

Main and Canal streets (intersection).

Park and Canal streets “

*Park and Jackson streets “

Summer and Jackson streets “

Main and Jackson streets “

Main street, front of Merrick’s mill.

Adams and Park streets (intersection).

Adams and Summer streets “

Bridge street, opposite Turf Hall.

Sargeant and Canal streets (intersection).

Sargeant and Bridge streets “

Sargeant street, between East and Park streets.

Sargeant and Main streets (intersection).

Sargeant and Race streets ‘e

Hamilton and Race streets “

Hamilton and Bridge streets a

Hamilton and Summer streets “

Cabot and Canal streets “

Cabot and Bridge streets 

Cabot and East streets 

Cabot and Park streets 

Cabot and Main streets “

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS,  
Spring and Race streets (intersection).
Spring and Main streets 
Spring and Park streets “
Appleton and Canal streets “
Appleton street, opposite Bowers street.
Appleton and B. M. R. R. bridge.
Appleton and Main streets (intersection).
Cross and Main streets “c
Lyman and Summer streets 
Canal street and Albion bridge.
Canonchet park.
East Dwight and Bowers streets (intersection).
*East Dwight and West streets ‘
*East Dwight and Center streets 
East Dwight and East streets “
East Dwight and Bridge streets ‘
Alley between West and Center streets.
Mosher and Bowers streets (intersection).
Mosher and West streets “s
*Mosher and Center streets “
Mosher and Fast streets “s
Mosher and Summer streets 
Ely and Bowers streets ““
Ely and Center streets 
Ely and Bridge streets “
Ely and Summer streets ‘
Lyman and Center streets ‘
Lyman and East streets 
Canal and Bridge streets “
Canal and Center streets “
*Grover street, between Canal and Lyman streets.
Bridge street, near South Hadley Falls bridge.
County bridge, second pier.
County bridge, sixth pier.
Potvin alley.
Canal street, in front of Street Railway Car Station.
*Lyman and Canal streets (intersection).

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Canal street, in front of H. W. P. Co.’s office.
Mosher street and B. M. R. R. bridge.
Lyman street and second level canal (intersection).
*Lyman street in front of Mackintosh’s mill.
Front and Lyman streets (intersection).

Front and Oliver streets “

Front and John streets “

Front street, at the Holyoke Opera House.
Front and Dwight streets (intersection).
Union and Lyman streets “
Union and Fountain streets “

High and Prospect streets  —s—*

High and Fountain streets “

High and Lyman streets 

High and Oliver streets “s

High and Hampden streets 

High and John streets “

High and Dwight streets 

Main street and Flatiron block.

Race street and Flatiron block.

Main and Dwight streets (intersection).
Race and Dwight streets a

Dwight street, opposite Whiting mill.
Dwight and Maple streets (intersection).
High and Suffolk streets “
*Maple and Suffolk streets “
*Chestnut and Suffolk streets “

*Elm and Suffolk streets ‘“
*Walnut and Suffolk streets “

*Pine and Suffolk streets “

Bh and Suffolk streets ‘
Linden and Suffolk streets “

Oak street, between Suffolk and Dwight streets.
Chase avenue and Pine street (intersection).
Appleton and Suffolk streets
Appleton and Linden streets  
Appleton and Bh streets “

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
*Appleton and Walnut streets (intersection).
*Appleton and Elm streets 
*Appleton and Chestnut streets 
*Appleton and Maple streets “

Appleton and High streets “
Essex and High streets “
*Essex and Maple streets 
* Essex and Chestnut streets 
Essex and Walnut streets ‘
*Essex and Pine streets ‘s
Essex and Bh streets
Essex and Linden streets 
Essex and Sycamore streets “e
Appleton and Bigelow streets 
Appleton and Bond streets ““
Essex and Newton streets “
Essex and Bond streets “
Cabot and Bigelow streets 
Cabot street and first level canal “
Cabot and Newton streets 
Cabot and High streets 
Cabot and Maple streets “
*Cabot and Chestnut streets “e
Cabot and Elm streets 
*Cabot and Pine streets
*Cabot and Oak streets “
*Cabot and Locust streets
Hampshire and Commercial streets ‘“ ;
Hampshire and High streets |
Hampshire and Walnut streets 
Hampshire and Bh streets “
Hampshire and Linden streets “
Sargeant street, over first level canal.
Sargeant and Commercial streets (intersection).
Sargeant and High streets 
Sargeant and Maple streets ‘
Sargeant and E|m streets 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Sargeant and Bh streets (intersection).
Sargeant and Linden streets ‘s
*Sargeant and Sycamore streets “
*Sargeant street and St. Jerome ave. “

Sargeant and Northampton streets (intersection).
Franklin and Commercial streets se
Franklin and High streets ““
Franklin and Chestnut streets “
Franklin and Bh streets 
*Franklin and Locust streets “e
Jackson and Commercial streets
Jackson and High streets “
Jackson and Chestnut streets ‘
Maple street and Dingle at Elmwood Park ‘
Elm and Allen streets t
Gates street, top of hill.

Chapin and Walnut streets
South and Maple streets  
South street and Brown avenue “
South and Chapin streets “:
South street and Harrison avenue “e
South and Northampton streets “
Carlton street and Russell terrace “
*Carlton street near L. B. Moore’s.
*Washington avenue and Charles street ‘
Washington and Harrison avenues “
Washington avenue and Northampton street.
*Laurel street and Brown avenue (intersection).
N and streets 
Brown avenue and View street “
Northampton and Clark streets 
Northampton and Glen streets 
*Northampton street near J. Mackintosh’s house.
Northampton and Cherry streets (intersection).
Bh street, at City Ilospital.

Bh street, near Kagwin’s.

Bh and Linden streets (intersection).

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Pine and Lyman streets (intersection).
Bh and Hampden streets ‘
Hampden street, near John O'Connell's barn.
Washington and Hampden streets (intersection).
*Brooks avenue and Hampden streets ee
Pleasant and Hampden streets 
*Pleasant and Allyn streets ee
*Pearl and Allyn streets a
*Lincoln and Taylor streets 
Lincoln and Nonotuck streets  
Taylor street, opposite No.  .
Pleasant street and Fairfield avenue (intersection).
Northampton and Hampden streets  c
Pleasant street and Highland avenue 
Pearl street and Highland avenue “
Nonotuck street and Highland avenue “
Fairfield avenue, east end.
Fairfield avenue, center.
Fairfield avenue, west end.
Northampton street, opposite Hasting’s.
Northampton street, opposite Heywood’s.
Northampton street and Madison avenue (intersection).
Northampton street, opposite Houston’s.
Northampton and Lincoln streets (intersection).
Howard and Lincoln streets, ‘
Allyn and Arlington streets “
Hampden and Parker streets “e
Beacon avenue and Canby street  
Hampden and Canby streets “
*Hampden and Nonotuck streets “
Beacon avenue and Nonotuck street 
Dwight and Nonotuck streets “
Beacon and Thorpe avenues
Beacon avenue and Pleasant street “
Dwight and Pleasant streets “
Dwight street and O’Connor avenue “
*Dwight and School streets .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Whiting avenue at bend.
Dwight and Linden streets (intersection).
Dwight and Bh streets “
Dwight and Pine streets 
Dwight and Walnut streets ““
Hampden and Walnut streets 
*Hampden and Elm streets 
Hampden and Chestnut streets “
*Dwight and Chestnut streets.“ .
Dwight and Elm streets “
Hampden Park, near center.
Hampden Park, west of center.
Hampden Park, east of center.
Hampden and Maple streets (intersection).
l.yman and Maple streets 
*Lyman and Chestnut streets ‘
Lyman and Elm streets “
Fountain and Elm streets a
Fountain and Chestnut streets “
Prospect and Maple streets  “
Prospect and Elm streets “
Prospect street opposite ice house.
Prospect Park, near Maple street entrance.
Prospect Park, near Chestnut street entrance.
Prospect Park, near Elm street entrance.
Prospect Park, west of Elm street.
Hampshire and Chestnut streets (Intersection).
Hampden and School streets ve
South Main street and the Ferry road ‘
Northampton street at the head of Mogan street.
Race street at the corner of Cabot street.
Taylor street near No. ro.
Williams street at the corner of Allyn street.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
SEWERS AND DRAINS.

Something should be done to relieve the nuisance of flooded
cellars within the district covered by the Walnut street and Front
street systems. In the time of heavy rains this trouble is regularly
brought to the attention of this board. The City Engineer has had
the matter under consideration for some time and we agree with
him that the construction of sewer for storm water only, will abate
the nuisance and is the cheapest plan to adopt.

| That portion of the Highlands north of Fairfield avenue is
rapidly growing and the demands for sewerage system for this
locality becomes more urgent day by day. We have nothing
definite to recommend in this connection at this time, further than
to hope you will give the matter the consideration it merits.

On the Springfield road sewer should be built the coming
season to drain the section known as Ingleside Terrace. ‘The
Board of Aldermen has been petitioned to pay damages caused by
washouts in this vicinity, and several such petitions are now before
the committee on claims, all of which will be withdrawn when
sewers are provided.

The expenses in this department were as follows :—

PAYROLLS AND BILLS—-SEWERS AND DRAINS.

Months. Receipts. Payroll, Bills. Total.
December, 
January, 
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  .
August,  .

September,  
October,  
November,  

£  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Appropriations, 
Receipts,  
Total, , 
Total expenditures,  
Balance, . 

Some of the heavier expenses were :—

Cleaning catch basins, , 

Constructing catch basins, Lo  

Repairing sewers,  

Repairing catch basins, ..  

Making sewer connections,  

Repairing sewer near Parsons’ Hall block,  

Repairing sewer, Front street,  

Connecting sewers on Jackson street,  

Repairing Almshouse sewer,  

New sanitary carts,  

Repairing Appleton street sewer, Lo  

Repairing Oakdale sewer,  

NEW SEWERS HAVE BEEN BUILT THIS YEAR AS FOLLOWS:
Alley running westerly from Commercial street between Franklin street and Bristol place.

Labor, , 

Materials :— .

  feet  -inch Akron pipe at cents, 

 -inch  -inch Y's,  

$ 

Less percent,  
— bbls. cement,   bricks, ,  
. ————e
Total cost, , 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Alley between Cabot street and Worcester place, east of High
Street.
Labor, , 
Materials :—
  feet  -inch Akron pipe at cents, less per cent.,  -inch  -inch Akron at less per cent.,  -inch Akron at less per cent.,  
Tools, .  
y bbl. cement at  
, Total cost, too, 
In Waldo street northerly from Beacon avenue. )
Labor, , 
Materials :—
  feet  -inch Akron pipe at cents, less per
cent., .  -in.  -in. Akron T’s at less per cent., bend at less percent., ..  
\Y bbl. cement at   
Total cost, $ 
In Canby street from Beacon avenue northerly.
Labor, . 
Materials :— |
  feet  -inch Akron pipe at cents, less per
cent., .  c-inch Akron Y’s at less percent., bbl. cement at —.  
Total, ,; 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Fountain street between Chestnut and Maple streets.
Labor, , 
Materials :—
  feet  -inch Akron pipe at per cent., -inch Akron pipe at  
$ 
Less percent.  
——  
\ bbl. cement.at$ a
pa
from
Labo
g  fe
C
I  -! ,
Y bb )
  .
Fi
follows
. sa. aucct, near Parker street.
e intersection of Clinton avenue and Dwight street.
ey between Park st. and Main st., near Spring street.
Mt. Tom engine house on Canal street.
y between Summer street and East street, near Ely.
ersection of Adams street and Bridge street.
corner of Hampden street and Pine street.
corner of Hampshire street and Chestnut street.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

One at the corner of Cabot street and East street.

One at the corner of Hampden street and Thorpe avenue.

Two at the intersection of Highland avenue and Pearl street.

One at the corner of Northampton street and Beacon avenue.

One at the corner of Cottage avenue and Beacon avenue.

Total number of catch basins December  .

CITY PROPERTY DEPARTMENT.

Much work has been done in the City Property Department
in repairing the buildings, and the greatest amount of work has
been done upon the City Hall building, which, with the exception
of the basement, has been placed in excellent condition.

The Sargeant Street, Park Street and the old High School buildimgs have been extensively repaired. Much work has also been done ,
on the Elmwood engine house, High street engine house and
Hamilton Street School building. large item of expense in this
department has been the placing and removing of storm doors and
windows upon the several buildings.

For further information concerning the buildings we refer you
to the following detailed report. :—

PAYROLLS AND BILLS.

, Month. Fuel. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
December,  
January,   
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  

Total,   

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Appropriations, 
Receipts,  
Total, , 
Expenditures,  
Amount to balance, 

CITY HALL.

Payrolls and bills :—

Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total

  December, 

  January,  

  February,  

“  March,  
“  April,  
“ May,  !
“  June,  
“ July,  
‘  August,  
“  September,  
“e October,   November,  

Total, 
In the City Hall building this year repairs and new work
were done as follows upon the several offices, viz. :—

Mayor's Office:

Furniture repaired and wall repaired and re-painted where
vault door was taken out.

City Clerk's Office:

New vault fixtures placed in the vault and vault repaired, also
vault door re-painted; electric light placed in vault; counters
re-arranged and new linoleum placed upon the floor one new roll- top
desk provided.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Office of Tax Collector and Assessors:

New iron railing; new linoleum placed upon the floor; rearranged counters; one new counter provided four electric lights
placed in office, door leading to corridor re-hung; all wood-work
varnished and one new roll-top desk provided.

Water Commissioners’ Office:

Re-painted ceiling and repaired water-clcset.
Office of the City Treasurer:

New chairs provided; new drawers placed in counter; one
new roll-top desk bought; door repaired.
Messengers Office: :

Walls of office painted and wood-work varnished linoleum
placed upon the floor; one new water filter and ice tank provided.
Office of Board of Public Works and City Auditor:

Furnished throughout; linoleum placed upon the floor bookcase built in old passage-way between Messenger’s office and this

Office ceilings and side walls painted; vault door changed from
Mayor’s office to open into this office; repaired and furnished
vault; one electric light placed in vault and four in office.

Office of Board of Health and Plumbing Inspector:

New iron ceilings provided side walls and ceilings varnished
throughout wood-work varnished, gas fixtures re-burnished gas
piping changed.

Office of the City Engineer:

New iron ceiling provided repaired, re-painted and varnished
throughout partition placed in center of office speaking tube run
to draughting room above; repaired furniture and placed linoleum
upon the floor.

Draughting Room, City Engineer:

This office fitted up complete for draughting room; new

radiator.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Police Office:

New iron railings placed in police office; new clock, new
chairs, one new water filter and ice tank.
Police Court Room:

Twelve new chairs provided.
Lockup:

At considerable expense to insure the safe keeping of
prisoners, the cells, cell doors and windows were strengthened by
putting in additional iron bars walls were whitewashed.

Closets:

The closets were repaired and the tank re-lined.
Basement Botler Room:

Boilers repaired and new wheel-barrow for boiler room provided.
Main halt:

New cord placed in all the sash in hall; ceiling repaired.
Corridors:

New floor placed upon the main corridor of the first floor, and
new treads and risers placed upon all of the stairs leading to the
main floor; new directory of rooms placed at the High street
entrance, and old directory re-lettered; all doors in building
repaired, and new locks, springs and bolts placed upon the same;
four new gas lights placed in dark places upon stairs some treads
on stairs leading to main hall repaired all doors of offices renumbered doors leading from corridors to street made to swing outward in comformity to law.

Tower:

New floor laid in tower dials of clock re-painted.
Miscellaneous:

Slate roof repaired new hose provided; new hose connec:
tions put in; lawn re-turfed in places where grass had been worD
away new lawn mower purchased.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
RECOMMENDATIONS.

This building was badly in need of repair as will be seen by
the above schedule of repairs. The building is now in good condition with the exception of the basement.

We would recommend that an appropriation be made next
year to put in new toilet room, in what is now the tramps’ room,
the tramps’ room to be moved to the room now occupied by the
woman’s lockup, and the woman’s lockup be moved to the northwest corner of the basement under the Mayor’s office, in which three
steel cages could be placed. This room connects with the office
of the Police Matron, and the women prisoners could be better
cared for by the Matron in this office than in any other place in the
basement. new padded cell is needed.

The space now occupied by the toilet rooms we would recommend be made into private office for the City Marshal, the
present private office to be used by the other titled officials of the
Police department and to have water-closet for their use.

Four set bowls should be placed in the patrolmen’s room and
the present storeroom in the basement should also be turned over

| for the use of the policemen.

The lockup should be ventilated.

The offices of the City Almoner and of the Police Matron
should be thoroughly renovated.

A new floor should be laid in the basement corridors.

An appropriation was asked for with which to do this work
during the current year, but the Board of Aldermen did not deem it
wise to grant the same, so these repairs were necessarily delayed
till another year.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
MT. TOM ENGINE HOUSE.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January, 
“ February,  
“ March,  
“ April,  
“ May,  
“s June,  
“ July,  
“ August,  
“  September,  
“ October,
“ November,  
Total, 
A new floor has been placed on the first floor and in the
bathroom of the Mt. Tom engine house. The bathroom of this
building has been thoroughly repaired, new bathtub put in
and water connections made with heater placed in the building by
the Fire Commissioners. Cess-pools have been put in under the
engine and wagons, and connections made with sewer. partition
around the stairs on the second floor has been erected. The floor,
stalls and doors have been repaired.
The engine room needs painting and the wood-work should be
varnished. ‘The building otherwise is in good condition.
CITY YARD BUILDINGS.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Pay rolls. Kills. Total.
  January,  
“ March,  
“s April, 
“ July,  
Total, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

The sheds at the City Yards were repaired and smokestack
placed in the building where the road roller is stored. new gas
light was placed at the entrance to the yard and the stalls in the
stable repaired.

All the buildings need painting, but otherwise they are in fair
condition.

CARLTON STREET SCHOOL.

Payrolls and Bills :—

Year. Month. Bills. Total.
  May,  
“ September,  

Total,  

At the Carlton Street School the windows, doors, basement
floor, furnace, plaster ceilings and roof were repaired. new
wainscoting was placed in the hallway.

This is one of the oldest school buildings in the city. The entire
interior needs re-painting and there is need of new blackboards.
The building as whole is in bad condition and should be given a
thorough overhauling next year.

EAST DWIGHT STREET SCHOOL.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January,  
“  February,  
‘  March, 
“e April,  
“s May,  
“ June,  
. July,
“ August,

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  September,  
“s October, 
“e November,  
Total, 
In the East Dwight Street School building eight ceilings were
re-plastered and the side walls were re-tinted. All blackboards were
re-slated and repairs made upon the roof, water-closet and boilers.
All of the interior wood-work is in need of varnishing. ‘The
walls in the corridors should be tinted. ‘The Principal has made a
request that gong be placed upon the outside of the building.
With these changes the building will be in good condition.
SOUTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January,  
“ February,  
“ March,  
“ April,  
“ May,  
“ June,  
é July,  
“ August,  
‘“ September,  
“ November,  
Total, 
New tanks have been placed in the South Chestnut Street
School to supply the lavatories. The blackboards have been re-slated,
the boilers, roof, fences and water-closets have been thoroughly
repaired. The walls on the interior should be re-tinted and the
interior wood-work varnished for its protection.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
ALMSHOUSE.
Payrolls and Bills :—

Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
 December, January,  

“ February, 
“ March,  
ee April,  
“ May,  
“ June, 
“es July,  
“ August,  
‘ September,  
“ October,
“ November,  
Total, 
The City Property department paid  for the purchase
of small strip of land at the south end of the farm at the city
Almshouse. New tubes were placed in the boilers, new grates provided and the boilers re-set. The water-closets were repaired and
carriage and tool sheds built.
The building will be completed and ready for occupancy by
January,  .
The corridors in the old part need painting, and there should
be new floor placed in the dining room and bake room.
WEST SI!REET CRAMMAR SCHOOL.
Payrolls and bills :—

Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, 
I January,  

“s February,  

ce March,  

oz April,  

‘s May,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Year. Month. Payrclls. Bills. Total.
  June, 
‘ July,  
“ August,  
“ September,  
“ October,  
“ November,  
Total, 
Repairs have been made in the West Street Grammar School
building upon the boilers, by changing the feed pipes and placing
new valves on the heating stack. new concrete floor was also
placed in one of the rooms in the basement of this building. New
supply pipes for the lavatories were provided, as the water supply
in this building was not sufficient to supply the closets. The return pipes inthe basement were re-covered. The building is now
in good condition.
NONOTUCK STREET SCHOOL HEATING.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Month. Bills. Total.
March,  
Total,  
Paid Fuller and Warren, upon their filing of bond of ,
to satisfactorily heat and ventilate said building.
ELMWOOD ENGINE HOUSE.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January, 
“ March,  
“  April,  
“ May,  
‘“ June,  

: REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

Year. Month, Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  July, 
“ August,  
“ September,  
‘ November,  
' Total, 
At the Elmwood engine house new upper floor was laid on
the first floor and the under planking, which was decayed, was
repaired. ‘Tarred paper was placed between the two floors. Cesspools were placed under the engine and hose wagon and connected
with the sewer. Six new stall bottoms were placed in the house

and repairs made upon the tower.

Linoleum was placed in two sleeping rooms and new curtains :
hung in these rooms. |

The bathroom was tinted and new washbowl and watercloset placed in the same. The location of the bathtub was also
changed.

All of the exterior wood-work and iron-work was re-painted
and the interior of the first floor was also re-painted.

We have thoroughly repaired this building so that it is in good
condition. We would recommend that the brick wall that separates
the first floor into two rooms be taken out, making one large room.
At present there is not room enough to hitch up two pieces of apparatus at one time in one side of the building. )

The men at this house have placed, at their own expense, a
fountain upon the lawn during the current year, and this adds
materially to the beauty of the grounds.

HIGH SCHOO! (OLD).
Payrolls and bills —
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December,  :
  January, 
“  February,  .
“  March,  
“ April,  .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  May, 
“ June,  
“ July,  
“ August,  
“ September,  
“ October,
“  November,  
Total, 
At the old High School building the large hall on the second
oor was divided into four rooms, which were fitted up complete.
A large room on the first floor was divided also by putting in partition. The division of these rooms was made at the request of the
School Board.
The walls and ceilings in the corridors were repaired and
re-painted.
The steam pipe radiation was taken out of the Principal’s
office and new radiators put in its place. The office was also
. repaired and painted.
New slate blackboards were provided in six rooms.
The boilers and roof were repaired.
The building is now in good condition.
SARGEANT STREET PUMP.
Payrolls and Bills :—

Month. Bills. Total.
July,  
August,  
September,  

Total,  
This pump was kept in condition at the request of the residents
in that immediate vicinity.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
HIGHLAND ENGINE HOUSE.

Payrolls and Bills :—

Vear. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.

  December,  January,  
“e February,  
“  March,  
‘ April, 
““ May,  
“ June,  
“ July,  
“ September,  
“ October,  
“  November,  

Total, 

At the request of the Fire Commissioners the small wooden
building in the rear of the Highland engine house was thoroughly
repaired, and new roof placed upon the structure. The building
is used asa hospital for the horses. The support for the bell on the
main tower was strengthened, and the hose tower, roof and stalls
repaired.

The tower of this house should have new equipment for
hoisting hose, and linoleum should be placed upon the floors of the
sleeping rooms. Otherwise the house is in good condition.

APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.

Payrolls and Bills :—

Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.

  December, 

  January,  
“ February,  
“ March,  
“ April, I. 
“ May,  

  REPORT OF ROARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  June,  
“ July,  
“e August, 
“ September,  
“ October,  
‘ November,  
Total, 
The blackboards in the Appleton Street School building were
repaired throughout and the side walls re-painted in several places.
The front doors were re-painted. At aconsiderable expense the air
ducts in the basement were repaired so that the water could not
flow through them. ‘The gutters, conductors, slate roof, waterclosets, fence and boilers were repaired. In addition to this new
tin roof was placed upon the water-closet building and new brick
put in the fire boxes of the boilers.
The fan should be removed from the cupola to the basement,
as the noise and vibration seriously disturb study.
New sash are needed throughout the building.
Otherwise the building is in good condition.
LYMAN STREET SCHOOL.
Payrolls and bills :—
Year. Month, Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January,  
““é August,  
“  September,  
‘  November, 
Total, 
The boilers, water-closets, slate roof and windows of the Lyman
Street School have been repaired. |
A new floor is needed in this building and the interior should
be painted. When this is done the building will be in good condition.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
SARGEANT STREET SCHOOL.
Payrolls and bills :—
Year. Moath. Pay rolls. Bills. Total.
  December,  January,  
“ February,  
“ March,  
‘e April,  
‘ May,  
June,  
“ July,  
‘e August,  
‘ September,  November,  
Total, 
All of the ceilings on the two floors of the Sargeant Street |
School building have been re-plastered and the walls and ceilings
re-tinted. All interior wood-work has either been painted or varnished, picture moulding has been placed in the rooms and the
blackboards re-slated. The sinks in the basement have been overhauled and putin good condition. The roof has also been repaired
and new ridge-roll put on. ‘The boilers and floors were repaired .
and the building overhauled generally.

This building was in poor shape, but is now practically new
inside with the exception of the floors. The building is heated
with steam, and in order to conform with the state law heating
and ventilating system must be placed in the building in the near
future.

SPRINGDALE HOUSE HOUSE.

The Springdale hose house is now used as an overflow for the

Springdale School. The building is in good condition and few |
repairs were needed during the year. ,

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
RIFLE RANGE, WILLIMANSETT.
Payrolls‘and Bill :—

Month. Bills. Total.
April,  
June,  
November, 

Total,  
The windows and doors of the house at the Willimansett rifle
range have been repaired. New planking has been placed on the
bulk-head and the doors on the rifle pit repaired. The city owns
the house and bulk-head and pays an annual rental of sixty dollars.
INGLESIDE SCHOOL.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  February, 
“f March,  
“ April,  
“  May,  
“ September,  
Total, 
The furnace vaults at the Ingleside School have been repaired
during the year.
New floors should be laid and the interior re-painted. Aside
from this, the building is in good condition.
*Rent of Range.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
EMERALD ENGINE HOUSE.
Payrolls and bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills, Total.
  December, January, 
“s February,  
‘“ May,  
June,  
“ August,  
as September,  

Total, 

Minor repairs, consisting of repairs made upon the roof, stalls,
doors and boilers, were made at the Emerald engine house. One
new water-closet was placed in this house also.

This building, with the repairs made upon it during the year,
is now in good condition. We think it would be wise to place the
bell now at the old High School building in this building for fire
alarm.

HIGH STREET ENGINE HOUSE.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December,  January,  
“ February,  
“ March,  
April,  
“ May,  
“ June,  
“ July,  
“s September,   October,
“s November,  
Total, 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The office of the Board of Fire Commissioners at the High
Street engine house was fitted up complete, painted throughout,
furniture provided and linoleum placed upon the floor. Two sleepIng rooms in the front of the second story were re-painted and
repaired throughout, the old wainscoting of sheathing, which was
a nest for vermin, taken out and the side walls plastered to the
floor. New curtains were hung and linoleum placed upon the floor.
Repairs were made upon the roof, stalls and boilers.

A new floor should be put in on the first floor and one room
on the second story repaired. The building is otherwise in good
condition.

HAMILTON STREETF SCHOOL.
Pavrolls and bills :—
Year. Month. Fayrolls. Bills. Tonal.
  December,  January,  
“ February,  
“ March,  
“  April,  
“ June,  
“ July,  
“ August,  
“ September,  
“ November,  

Total, So  

A larger fire surface on the boilers was required at the Hamilton Street School at the beginning of the year, in order to generate
steam to properly heat the building. This was provided. ‘he air
ducts, dampers, boilers and side walls were repaired, new gas lights
placed in the basement and picture molding put in the schoolrooms. newcase was provided for the storage of the woods used
by the carving classes, the flag-pole removed from the cupola to the
front of the building and the interior of the cupola repaired.

The building is in fair condition, but the corridors need
painting.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PURLIC WORKS.  
ELMWOOD SCHOOL.
Payrolls and bills :—

Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January,  
a March, 
‘s April,  
“ May,  
‘s August, ,
“ September,  
e November,  

Total, 

The electric motor at the Elmwood School building was rewound and the boilers and slate roof repaired.

This is one of the newest school buildings in the city and is in
good conclition, with the exception of the floors, which have
shrunk baclly.

REMOVING BUILDING, MAPLE STREET.

Payrolls and bills, removing building, billings estate :—Month, Payrolls. Votal.
April,  
Total,  

This account has been given to the tax collector for collection.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
CITY HALL FUND.

Payrolls and bills :—

Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total,
May,  
June, 
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November  

Total, . 
Receipts, . 
Expenditures,  
Balance, ; 

This fund was used as far as it would go for repairing the City
Hall building. The balance of the cost of the repairs made upon
this building was charged to City Property.

This fund, after the basement of the building has been thoroughly repaired as suggested, will be ample to keep the entire
building in good repair if the present method of rentals of the hall
is continued.

BRIDGE STREET SCHOOL.

Payrolls and bills :—

Year. Month. Pay rolls, Bills. Total.
  December, January, 
“ February,  

“ April,  

“ August,  

“ September,  

  November,  

Total, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

New grates were furnished for the boilers at the Bridge Street
School and repairs were made upon the brick work around the
boilers, water-closets and roof. The motor was re-wound and the
railings at the entrance re-set and new stones placed under
them.

The floors at this building are poor, although it is among the
newer school buildings. In the main the structure is in good condition.

BACK STREET SCHOOL.

Payrolls and Bills :—

Year, Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, March, 

Total, 

New locks were placed upon the outside doors at the Back
Street School. The doors, windows and steps were repaired.

A new floor should be provided. With this exception the
building is in good condition. .
SCHOOL STREET SCHOOL.

Payrolls and Bills :— :

Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January, ,
“ March,  
‘* April,  
‘  May,  
“é July,  
é August,  
.  September,  
ss November,  
Total, 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The ceilings in the School Street School building have been
re-plastered. All of the wood-work, both interior and exterior, has
been re-painted. The roof has been re-shingled, the blackboards,
sinks and fence repaired and new supply pipe run to the exterior
of the building.

The building was in bad shape, but is now in good condition.
New floors are needed. stone retaining wall should be built at
the rear'of the lot to prevent the sand from washing upon the
property.

PFST HOUSE.
Payrolls and bills :— )
| Month. Bills. Total,
: February,  
September,  
November,  

Total,  

|

The furnace at the Pest House has been thoroughly repaired
and shingles for re-shingling the stable have been purchased. The

, building is tn very good condition, but the roof of the sheds needs

re-shingling and new floor.

NORTH CHESTNUL STREET SCHOOL.
Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Pay rolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January, 
February,  
“ March, §. 
“  April,  
“ May,  
“  July,  
—"

REPORT OF ROARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  August, 
“ September,  
s November,  

Total, 

A new flag-pole was put up at the North Chestnut Street
School building, and repairs made where the central walls had
settled. Moulding was also placed in position and the heaters
repaired.

This is the oldest building in the city. The walls are in need
of tinting, and the wood-work should be painted. New blackboards are needed and demand has been made for gong upon
the exterior of the building. Otherwise the building is in good
condition.

RELIEF ENGINE HOUSE.
Payrolls and bills :—
Vear. Month, Pay rolls. Bills, Total.
 SQ  January, 
February,  
‘é March,  
“ April,  
“ May, 
* June,  
“* August,  
* September,  
‘ November,  
- Total, 

At the Relief engine house the boilers, stalls, water-closets
and the wood-work on the rear of the building have been repaired.

Cess-pools should be placed under the engine and wagon to
drain off the water. The horse stalls in this building should be
moved forward some ten feet to give more room in the stables. The
building otherwise is in good condition.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
SPRINGDALE SCHOOL.
Payrolls and bills :— |
Vear. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December, January, 
“ March, Il
“ July,  
“ September,  
Total, 
Minor repairs have been made upon the Springdale School
building, consisting of placing new lining and grate bars in the
furnace and repairing the air ducts. The roof, windows and doors
have been repaired and new steps have been placed leading to the
main entrance. ‘The building is in good condition.
PARK STREET SCHOOL.
Payrolls and bills :—

Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
December,  
January, 
February,  
May,  
August,  
September,  
November,  

Total, 

At the Park Street School it was found necessary to re-plaster
the ceilings in the four upper rooms and the walls and ceilings in
these rooms were tinted. ‘The fire-pit in the boilers was enlarged
and the boilers repaired, also new grates placed in the fire-boxes.
The wood-work on the balconies on the front of the building was
repaired and the gutters placed in good condition. supply pipe
was run to the lawn and the slate roof repaired.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
With the exception of the gutters and conductors the building
is in good condition.
WEST HOLYOKE SCHOOL.
Payrolls and bills :—

Month. Payrolls. Balls, Total.
April,  
June, 

Total, 

The doors and windows of the West Holyoke School building
have been thoroughly repaired and new locks placed upon the doors
of the water-closets.

This building is in good condition, with the exception of the
floors, which need to be replaced.

NONOTUCK SIKEET SCHOOL.

Payrolls and Bills :—
Year. Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
  December,  January,  

“é February,  

“ March,  

“ April,  

“‘ May,  

“s June, .

“ July,  

“s September,  

“ October,  

“ November,  

Total, 

With the exception of placing new ridge-roll upon the roof,
re-setting glass where broken and repairing the water-closet system,
little has been done at the Nonotuck Street School building.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The building is not in good condition. The plastering on
some of the ceilings needs attention and the walls and ceilings
throughout should be tinted. On account of the low pressure it is
impossible at times to get water on the upper floor. We would
recommend that storage tank be placed in the attic and the water
drawn from this. The number of water-closets for boys and girls
should at least be doubled, as there are only three closets for each.
With the present number of pupils in the building six closets are
altogether inadequate. We would also recommend that the high
fence be removed from around the lot.

In miking repairs we have taken into consideration the recommendations made in their annual reports by principals, teachers and
the Board of Fire Commissioners.

Heretofore the policy has been to do patch here and patch
there as nec ssity demanded on the buildings, consequently the
buildings have deteriorated rapidly and have patchy appearance.
The proper way, we consider, to take on building is to repair it
thoroughly from bottom to top. By doing so the buildings can soon
be gotten into good condition. We have pursued this course and
now have the City Hall building (excepting the basement), Elmwood
engine house, Park street school, Sargeant street school and School
street school, through repairs made this year, in first-class condition.

We find the flooding of floors with hose is detrimental to the
lasting qualities, as the water gets between the cracks and rots the
under flooring rapidly. This should be abolished by the Fire
Commissioners.

When the Water Commissioners removed their yard from Elm
street to Commercial street we thought the land on Elm street
should be part of the old High School building property, and addressed communication to the Commissioners to that effect, receiving an answer that we could have the same by paying to the
Commissioners an amount equal to the original cost. Upon receipt
of the answer of the Water Commissioners we consulted City Solicitor
Hamilton and found this to be so, although the city holds the fee
simple of the land. ‘This matter should be attended to next year,
as no taxpayer would like to see this property in the hands of a
private person.

. REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
The School Board have this year thirteen stores or tenements
hired for use as school-rooms, which this department has had to
keep in repair. This department has set this year, in different buildings, lights of glass.

The Inspector of Buildings should have building to be used
as carpenter and paint shop and for the storage of furniture, and
if this was provided great deal of furniture might be repaired and
made ready for future use. Discarded furniture is now placed in
the attic of buildings and is lost track of. Nearly every city building has an accumulation of furniture.

Just few words about the city property appropriation for this
year, in closing. The sum of  was spent on the City Hall
building, and this included furnishing the offices of Board of
Public Works and City Auditor, Board of Assessors and Tax
Collector, City Engineer, City Clerk and Treasurer; repairing and
furnishing the vault in the City Clerk’s and Board of Public Works’
offices, also the sum of  for the purchase of land at
Almshouse was expended from the City Property Department,
making total of Heretofore when an outlay as large
as this was spent, the Board of Aldermen have passed special
appropriation for the same, but this year this has been taken from
the regular City Property account. Also please notice amount
expended on Sargeant street and old High School buildings.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. ,
BULIDING STATISTICS.

Below is given the value of each city building, the land value
in connection with same and other facts of interest in connection
with the city buildings.

we
sz iu as es “&
as oe Far ca  
Name of Building. oe  iy, cS Zs
Almshouse,  acres  Brick 
Appleton St. School, ‘s  
Back St. School,  Wood  
Bridge St. School, Brick  
Carlton St. School,   
City Hall, Granite  
City Yards Building, Wood  
East Dwight St. School, Brick  
Elmwood So. St. School, ss  x.  &
Kimwood Engine House,  
Emerald Engine House,   
Hamilton St. School,  
High School (new), Brick and  
High School (old), Brick  
High St. Engine House, os  
Highland Engine House,  
Ingleside School,  
Lyman St. School,  
Mt. Tom Engine House,  
Nonotuck St. School,  
N. Chestnut St. School, ss  
Park St. School, .s  
Pest House, acres  
Relief Eogine House,  
Sargeant St. School, ss  
School St. School, vse  
So. Chestnut St. School,  
Springdale School, Wood  
Springdale Hose House,  
West St. School, Bulf Brick  
West Holyoke School, Wood  
Sewer land, Elmwood,  
Gravel pit, Sacres  
$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
NEW HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING.

The land for the new High School pbuilding was purchased of
the Holyoke Water Power Company for the sum of .

On the  th day of December,  Mr. M. E. Cummings
entered into acontract with the city for the erection and completion
of new High School building, in accordance with the plans and
specifications made by Mr. G. P. B. Alderman. The said building
under this contract was to be completed on the  th day of last
June, but at this date much more remains to be done.

The progress made thus far has not been satisfactory to the
board. The contractor complains that he was hindered in the work
on account of the delay in installing the heating and ventilating
plant, but the board expressed their willingness to place small
stoves for burning coke during the cold weather to dry the plastering, but the plastering was not put on the building until warm
weather when no artificial heat was required.

The board has repeatedly urged and requested that the work
should be pushed and should progress faster, but without accomplishing much until October rst last, from which time some progress has been made.

The board has been willing and has extended to the contractor
all the courtesy and assistance to push along the work that was
consistent with regard to protecting the interests of the city.

The School Board desired some important changes to be made
to provide for the laboratory work, etc., and the least price for
this work submitted by the contractor was The sum
available for this work was only The School Board
offered to donate  from their fund for equipping the building, to meet this extra expense, but as this was not enough to cover
the cost and as the price of the work was deemed excessive, the
Board of Public Works declined to accept the offer made by the
contractor.

| The Board of Public Works, in accordance with the wishes of
the School Board, endeavored to make satisfactory arrangements
with the contractor, Mr. Cummings, to put in the so-called ‘‘ rough
work ”’ for the equipment, plumbing and piping of the laboratories,

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

but here again the price submitted by the contractor was 
for this work, while responsible outside party of this city offered
to do this work for consequently this offer of the contractor
was declined.

But here it should be stated that, according to the terms of the
contract between the city and Mr. Cummings, no changes can be
made unless the price agreed upon is satisfactory to the contractor.
The city, therefore, has been handicapped all along in making any
changes, however desirable they may have been.

Contracts pertaining to the building have been made as
follows :—

Heating and ventilating system, Kennedy Sullivan

Mfg Co., $ 
Mechanical stokers, Kennedy Sullivan Mfg. Co.,  
Electric light wiring, M. E. Cummings,  
Soil pipe (ordered by the Board of Health), M. E.

Cummings,  

If the contractor should expedite the work on the building
with proper speed the building should be ready to receive the
furniture and fixtures by the rst of March.

The expenses have been as follows :—

HIGH SCHOOL APPROPRIATION.

Payrolls and Bills :—

Month, Payrolls. Bills. Total.
December, 
January,  
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,   |

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
September, 
October,  
November,  
$ 
Balance December .  '
Special loan,  
Total, ——— 
Expenditures,  
Balance, . 
HIGH SCHOOL HEATING AND VENTILATING.

The expenses of this department are given below :—

Payrolls and Bills :—

Month. Bills, Total,
May,  
July,  

 August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  

Total,  

This account is met by funds from the account of High School
appropriation.

ALMSHOUSE ADDITION.

The contract for heating and ventilating the Almshouse was
given to the H. O. Sprague Son Company of Westfield, for .
This is for heating both the old building and the new addition.

The contract for an electric lighting plant for this building
‘was awarded to G. M. Angier Co. of Boston, Mass., for .

A carriage, tool and wagon shed has been constructed at a
cost of .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The building formerly used for an ice house, which was simply
four walls, without roof, windows or doors, has been converted into
a laundry at cost of The former laundry was in the
basement and the board deemed it advisable to have it removed
from the building.

ALMSHOUSE ADDITION.

Payrolls and Bills :—

Month. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
December, 
January,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  

Total, 

Appropriation and transfer, 
Expenditures,  
Balance unexpended, 

FURNISHING ALMSHOUSE ADDITION. .

Contracts have been made for furnishing the Almshouse
addition. The expenses were as follows :—

Payrolls and bills :-—

Month. Bills. Total.
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  

Total,  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Appropriation, 
Expenditures,  
Balance, 

WARD ONE SCHOOL APPROPRIATION. |
Payrolls and bills :—
Vear. Month. Bills. Total.
  December,  
Total,  
Balance December ,. 
Expenditures,  
Balance,
PAVING.

Stone paving is undesirable, as the surface is rough, noisy,
unsanitary and expensive.

Asphalt block on streets, when properly laid, are excellent.
They are clean and elastic for horses’ feet and for carriages, and
not noisy like granite blocks. They wear down on our High street
about one-eighth of an inch per annum, and with three inches to
wear Off will last twenty-four years. In some cities complaint is
made of the pitchy dust. that comes from the wearing of the
surface, and that it enters stores and buildings.

Vitrified brick are now being extensively used for paving .
purposes, and the advantages claimed are: Freedom from
moisture, durability, easily repaired and cheapness.

The Board would recommend that the city wait year to see
how the brick paving laid this season on Cabot street proves before
doing more paving. ‘The city has guarantee by surety company
for five years, and if any bricks prove faulty they are to be replaced

' with perfect bricks without expense to the city during this period.

A detailed statement of the work done in this department and

the expenses follow :—

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Payrolls and Bills :—

Month. Receipts. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
June,  
July, 
August,  
September,  . 
October,  
November, 

Total,  

Appropriation, 

Additional transfer,  

Receipts,  

$ 

Disbursements,  

Balance unexpended, 
CABOT STREET PAVING.

The cost of paving Cabot street with vitrified brick between
Park street and the Willimansett bridge was as follows, viz. :—
Excavating, , 
Inspector, ,  
Hauling brick, to Loe  
Rolling foundation,  
Hauling sand,  
Relaying crosswalks,  
Cleaning paving,  
Coal, .  
Amount, , 
Credit by  charged W. R. Johnson for watchman, ,  
Net amount of above, , 
Paid W. R. Johnson, square yards, at cents,  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Paid Eastern Paving Brick Co., brick, 
Paid sundry bills,  
Total, . 
The cost of paving Cabot street between Main and Park streets.
Excavating, . 
Hauling gravel,  
Hauling sand,  
Watchman, ,  
Running roller,  
Paid Eastern Paving Brick Co. for brick,  
$ 
Total cost of paving, . 
For the above work assessments were levied and paid by

the Holyoke Street Railway Company as follows, viz. :—

For paving between Park street and the Willimansett

bridge, . 
For paving between Main and Park streets,- ..  
For brick used in paving between the rails of said company on Cabot street between Main and High

streets, ,  

Total, - 

In addition to the above amount paid by the Holyoke Street
Railway Company, it was decided to use vitrified brick in the construction of crosswalks, and brick to the value of  were
transferred to the Department of Sidewalks, making the total receipts of the Department of Paving .

The city now has on hand at the city yard about brick
which will be used either in paving next season or kept for the construction of crosswalks. The total amount paid Eastern Paving
Brick Company for brick was  for No. wire-cut
paving brick and special brick used along the rails of the

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Holyoke Street Railway Company. The wire-cut brick were purchased at the rate of  per  while the special brick cost
$  per  f. b. Holyoke. The additional cost of these
special brick was charged to the Street Railway Company.

The work on this street between Park street and the Willimansett bridge was done jointly by contract and by the city by day
labor. The city provided all brick used in the work and excavated
and prepared the foundation ready for the contractor to prod
with the work of placing the concrete foundation upon which the
brick were laid in this portion of the street. For placing the concrete foundation, sand cushion, laying brick and grouting the same,
the contractor received seventy-three cents per square yard. The
total amount paid the contractor was which included a
small quantity of cement purchased from him. From this amount
$  was deducted upon the work at this particular point.

The work of paving this street between Main street and Park
street was done by the city by day work, and brick laid upon gravel
foundation thoroughly rolled with the steam roller.

As shown above, the cost of paving between Park street
and the Willimansett bridge was and the cost of
paving between Park street and Main street was Upon
this basis the cost per square yard of laying the brick upon concrete foundation was and upon gravel foundation, .

In paving this street the board experienced difficulties never
before encountered by the authorities in this city. The Street
Railway Company refused to pay for paving any portion of the
space outside of its rails on Cabot street, between Main street
and the Willimansett bridge, unless the board would exempt the
said company from the cost of paving Cabot street outside of the rails
between High street and Main street. President Loomis claimed
that his company was exempted from paying any portion of the cost
of paving outside the rails (by the Board of Aldermen of  when
the franchise for the Cabot street extension was granted the Street
Railway Company by the Board of Aldermen in  said company agreeing to pay one-half of the cost of constructing the new
stone bridge over the third level canal on the said street. The
City Solicitor gave his opinion that if the Street Railway Company

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
refused to pay for paving the eighteen inches outside its rails, the
city under the general law would be powerless to collect for said
paving. The board therefore decided to accept the proposition of
the company, and accordingly an agreement was entered into
whereby the city exempted the company from the necessity of
paying for paving outside the rails between High street and Main
street on Cabot street, and the company agreed to pay for its share
of the paving and eighteen inches outside the rails on Cabot
street between Main street and the Willimansett bridge. This seemed
to the board to be the best possible way to settle the difficulty under
the conditions existing. ‘The law upon the subject is contained in
Chapter Section of the Public Statues and is as follows:

“Every street railway company shall keep in repair, to the
satisfaction of the superintendent of streets, street commissioners,
road commissioners, or surveyors of highways, the paving, upper
planking or other surface material of the portions of streets, roads
and bridges occupied by its tracks; and if such tracks occupy
unpaved streets or roads, shall in addition so keep inrepair eighteen inches on each side of the portion occupied by its tracks, and
shall be liable for any loss or injury that any person may sustain
by reason of the carelessness, neglect, or misconduct of its agents
and servants in the construction, management, and use of its track.”

FINANCIAL SUMMARY. ,
RECEIPTS.

From Appropriations, 
From the Holyoke Street Railway Co.,  
For brick used in Sidewalk Department,  

$ 

EXPENDITURES.

Total expenditures, 
Balance on hand, 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
STREET WATERING.

The city has been divided into fourteen districts, with sprinkling wagon to each district.

The board early in the year made request of the Water
Commissioners for several additional stand-pipes, but only four
were granted. They propose to furnish next season stand-pipes
that can be closed below the surface of the ground to prevent
freezing, so they can be used earlier and later in the season.

At least new stand-pipes are needed, and with this additional number the average distance apart of the stand-pipes would
be three thousand feet.

The best and most economical method of watering the streets
has been difficult problem to solve. With only fourteen street
sprinkling wagons, some forty-six miles of streets to water and
only fifty-three stand-pipes, it has been impossible to water the
streets satisfactorily.

The sprinkling wagons can be emptied with the valve fully
opened in going distance of five hundred feet, but at the most one
trip should not exd feet.

The stand-pipes are now on the average over four thousand
feet apart, consequently the wagons are doing service less than onethird of the time. With stand-pipes placed about the city only one
thousand or twelve hundred feet apart, the cost could be reduced
about one-half for the same amount of service, or with the same
expense much more thorough service could be obtained.

The question where to locate the stand-pipes is vexed one.
No one wants stand-pipe in front of his place of business or in
front of his residence. It has been suggested that in many cases
they could be placed in the alleys.

The board adopted the plan of having the drivers of sprinkling
wagons report daily by postal cards as follows :—

REPORT OF ROARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
DaiLy REPORT OF DRIVERS OF WATERING CARTS.
RETURNS MUST BE MADE AT THE CLOSE OF EACH DAY’S WORK.
HOLYOKE, MASS.,  ...  .
This certifies that have this day duly sprinkled upon the streets
of my route the number of full tanks of water noted below, viz. :—
No. of trips made over my entire route, |... |...
No. of tanks,.........  .M., to.  .M.,... .
No.of tanks,  ...... M., to.  LM. on,
No. of tanks,.. .. M,, tow Mee   ,
Total, oo
[Sign here]
Fill out this card—using ink, not lead pencil.
These cards enabled the superintendent of outdoor work to
exercise supervision of the work, and the rule was adopted that no
drivers be employed except citizens at least twenty-one years of age.
The board purchased two Studebacker sprinkling wagons of
  gallons capacity each. ‘These wagons are equipped with tires
six inches in width.
The cost of the work by months is as follows :—
Payrolls and bills :— |
Month. Receipts. Payrolls. Bills. Total.
April, 
May, . 
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
Total,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Appropriation, 
Receipts,  
Total, ———. 
Expenditures,  
Balance unexpended, 
The number of miles of streets watered during the past year is
as follows:—
 
fa a. ,
a ee
se Bs i
. Zz 
District No.  ft. miles.  
‘ No.   No.   
“No.  
‘ No. **  
‘ No.  No.   
‘ No.   
‘No.  ‘*  
No.   
‘ No.  
“No.  **  
‘  No.   
‘No.  
Spare cart, **  
LOCATION OF STAND-PIPES.
The location of stand-pipes, arranged in alphabetical order, is
as follows, in all, viz. :—
Appleton street, near third level canal. .
Appleton street, between Main street and Crescent street.
Bh street, near Hampden street.
Brown avenue, near the intersection of South street.
Bh street, between Suffolk street and Appleton street.
Bridge street, at its intersection with Canal street, at Valley bridge.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Bridge street, at its intersection with Canal street, near third level
canal.
Bridge street, between Sargeant and Adams streets.
Bridge street, between East and Mosher streets.
Canal street, at its intersection with Lyman street.
Cherry street, corner of Northampton street.
Center street, at its intersection with East Dwight street.
Center street, at its intersection with Lyman street.
Canal street, between Cabot street and Hamilton street.
‘Chestnut street, at its intersection with Sargeant street.
Chestnut street, at its intersection with Prospect street.
Chestnut street, at its intersection with Cabot street. |
Cabot street, between Race and Main street.
Cabot street, between Race and Bigelow street.
Commercial street, at City Yard building.
Columbus avenue, near Northampton street.
Dwight street, at its intersection with Nonotuck street.
East street, at the corner of Hamilton street.
Essex street, between High street and Maple street.
Elm street, between Dwight street and Suffolk street.
Front street, between Fountain street and Oliver street.
Hamilton street, at its intersection of Canal street.
Hampden street, at the intersection of Nonotuck street.
High street, between Dwight street and Suffolk street.
| Jackson street, near the intersection of Main street.
Main street, at its intersection with South street.
Maple street, at the intersection of South street.
Maple street, at Hampden Park.
Meadow street, at its junction with Main street.
Northampton street, between Lincoln and Hampden streets. ,
Northampton street, near the Northampton line.
Northampton street, near the Street farm.
Northampton street, between street and South street.
Nonotuck street, at the intersection with Fairfield avenue.
Park street, near the intersection with Crescent street.
Pine street, between Dwight street and Hampden street.
Pine street, near the residence of William Skinner.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Prospect street, near Elm street.
Race street, near its intersection with Cross street.
Railroad street, between Appleton street and Suffolk street.
South street, near Russell terrace.
School street, between Dwight street and Hampden street.
St. Jerome avenue, near Sargeant street.
Sargeant street, between Maple street and High street.
Summer street, between Sargeant and Adams streets.
Sargeant street, between Park street and East street.
Taylor street, near Hampden street.
Willow street, at its intersection with Laurel street.
THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The expenses by months of the Board of Public Works are
given below.

Payrolls and bills :—

Month, Bills. Total.
January,  
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  

 

Total,  ?
Total appropriations, 
Total expenditures,  
Amount required to balance account, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

INVENTORY OF IMPLEMENTS, CARTS, TOOLS AND SUPPLIES ON HAND
DECEMBER .

 Fourteen watering carts, . 

 One steam roller,  

 Sevenhorses,.  

 Two street sweepers,  

 One Ledgerwood engine,  :

 Four road machines,  :

 Two sanitary carts,  

 One six-ton road roller,  

g. Three dump carts,  

 o. One Deane steam pump,  

 One Lawrence pump,  

 Seven harnesses, blankets, etc.,  :

 Three truck sleighs,  

 Onestonecrusher,.  

 Two Edison pumps; three links of hose,  

 One buggy,  

 One pile driver,  :

 Four hand carts,  :

 Thirteen snow plows,  :

»  Six hundred feet of hose,  

 Onederrick,  

 Four asphalt block rammers,  

 One hundred shovels,  

 One business wagon,  

 One pair of bob sleighs,  

 Three plows,  

 Sewer dredges and rigging,  

 One safe, ;  

 Fourironrammers,  

 Chains and ropes,  

 One cutter,  

 One stone truck,  

 One wire clamp,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
 Six stout danger signs, 
 About vitrified paving brick, .
 About sixty-three tons of trap rock, |
 About feet of new plank, |
 Small tools and supplies as per schedule on file,  
—— |
Total, $  |
An inventory of the materials and stock on hand, taken March
rst last, shows value of but on careful examination
the board found that much of the property had depreciated in value.
| The board therefore decided to reduce the valuation to 
as stated above. |
, Annexed herewith are the communications from the Park
Commissioners and the Board of Health in reference to procuring .
a dumping ground in the ravine upon the westerly side of Maple
street in Elmwood park. This would be of great advantage to the
Health, Highway and Sewer Departments for the disposal of refuse
matter.
[Copy]
. Ho.yokeE, Mass., October .
Hon. Geo. H. Smith, Mayor, Holyoke, Mass.
Dear Sir:—Enclosed please find petition for an appropriation for  to extend the Maple street culvert. We estimate
that we can build about feet with this money. We ask you to
call special meeting at an early day to consider this, as it will be
necessary to have this work done at once, if it goes in this fall, and
it is considered important that this dumping ground should be provided for the Board of Health for the coming winter.
The lateness of the season is the cause of our urging.
The Board of Park Commissioners have taken action upon this
matter and desire this extension of the culvert and the filling in by
the Board of Health, so as to get level piece of land about
]

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
seventy-five feet in width to connect that part of Elmwood park
lying on the south side.

I also ei.close you rough memorandum showing the importance and value of this matter.

Yours truly,
(Signed) D. H. NEWTON,
Chairman Park Commissioners.

[Copy]

HOLyokE, Mass., October .
Hon. Mayor and Board of Aldermen, Holyoke, Mass.

GENTLEMEN :—We respectfully ask an appropriation of 
to extend the Maple street culvert westerly about feet
into Elmwood park; the space to be used for dumping ground
by the Board of Health. The money to be expended by the Board
of Public Works.

Respectfully yours,
(Signed) D. H. NEWTON,
Chairman Park Commissioners.
(Signed) A. B. WETHERELL,
Chairman Board of Health.

[Copy ROUGH ESTIMATE.

Extension of culvert at Maple street, on west side, roo feet,
cost about .

This will provide dumping ground about feet deep, average feet wide and feet long, equals cubic yards.

Estimate two loads to one yard, equals yards or
  loads.

If loads are dumped daily, this will take:  days.

If  per day can be saved in team work:  days,
equals .

Perhaps cents per foot may be estimated for the value of
the land after filling. feet by feet average width, equals
  square feet of land at cents equals .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
LIST OF CONTRACTS MADE IN  .
Name of Contractor. For What. Date. Amount.
Robert Johannis, Painting office of Board of
Public Works and City
Auditor, Jan.  
Watson Ely Son, Counter and railing with
drawers for office of
Board of Public Works
and City Auditor, Jan. 
Robert Johannis, Painting Messenger’s office Jan. 
John Tilley Co., Desks. chairs, etc., for
Board of Public Works
and City Auditor, Jan. 
Kennedy Sullivan, Grates for boilers at Hamilton street school, Jan. 
J.& W. Jolly, Steel beams and plates for
vault for oflice of Board
of Public Works and
City Auditor, Feb. 
Robert Johannis, Painting Water Commissioners’ office, Feb. 
Robert Johannis, Painting draughting room,
City Engineer, Feb. 
Livermore Martin, Chairs, Feb. 
Holyoke Water Power Company, Digging up streets, Mar.   s
H. C. Haunton, Wire work, Assessors’
room, Mar. 
G. E. Russell Co., Wire work, Police Station, Mar. 
G. E. Russell Co.,  Hand-carts for cleaning
streets, Mar. 
Kennedy Sallivan, New High School heating
and ventilating, Mar. 
G. E. Russell Co., Plow, Highway Department, Aprill,  
M. E. Cummings, Electrical work, new High
School building, April 
Geo. H. Richter Co., Vault fixtures, April 
John Frawley, Curbing (straight),  
feet at cents, April 
Joho Frawley, Curbing (circles), feet
at cents, April 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
John Frawley, Catch-basin corners, four
at 
James E. Farrell, Sidewalks (new), cents
square yard, May 
James E. Farrell, Sidewalks (re-covered),  
cents square yard, May 
E. F. Dreicorn, Painting Willimansett
bridge, May 
Holyoke Paint Wall
Paper Co., Painting South Hadley
bridge, May 
LaLiberte Bros., Almshonuse addition, May 
J.L. H. K. Potter, Two watering carts at
$ May 
Wadsworth Howland
& Co., Paint for painting iron
bridges, June  |
Michael Cleary, New flooring, City Hall, June  -.
W.A. Chase, Coal, broken, per ton, June 
egg, ot  
stove, “e  
soft, 
Michael Cleary, Sheds at Almshouse, July 
M. E. Cummings, Soil pipe, High School
building, per order of
Board of Health, July 
New England Towel
Supply, Towels, etc., for City Hall, July  ,
per mo.  
Hartford Steam Boiler Insurance and
Inspection Co., Insurance, Aug. 
W.R. Johnson, Laying brick paving,  
cents square yard, Aug. 
Eastern Paving Brick
Company, Paving brick,  per
  Aug, 
H. O.Sprague Son Heating and ventilating
Company, the Almshouse, Aug. 
G. M. Angier Co., Electric lighting Almshouse, Oct. 
L. T. Beaulieu, Almshouse laundry, Nov. 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT WINKLER.

A report of Henry Winkler, Superintendent of Outdoor Work,
is appended.

HotyokE, Mass., December .
Zo the Honorable, the Board of Public Works of the City of Holyoke, Mass.

GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with your request, herewith
submit to you my first annual report as Superintendent of Outdoor

| Work.
GRAVELING.

The graveling of streets in Wards Qne and Two and South
Holyoke should be discontinued on account of the cost of hauling
the gravel. It costs to haul the gravel to these districts about eighty
cents per cubic yard, or only one-third less than macadam. Certainly macadam is preferable to gravel, since it will last for years,

while graveled road demands constant attention.

Our country roads can be greatly improved by purchasing a
portable stone crusher and roller combined. There are thousands
of tons of stone piled up along said roads that are carted off the
fields by the farmers. In localities where no gravel can be obtained
the stone could be crushed and rolled to make good roads. The
jedges which now exist in the Rock Valley roads might be blasted
and crushed for road dressing, thereby reducing the grade on the
steep hills, to the great relief of the traveling public.

All of our canal bridges, as well as the county bridges, must be
top-planked next year. The South Hadley Falls bridge and some
of the canal bridges also need bottom planking. All canal bridges
should be painted and repaired, for which special appropriation of

:  ought to be set aside.
PAVING.

The brick paving on Cabot street should be extended from
Main street to Race street. Appleton street should certainly be
paved from High street to Linden street. Before this is done the

|

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
curbing on each side of the street should be set back two feet, as
the street is now so narrow that vehicles are compelled to travel in
one and the same rut.

SIDEWALKS.

The corner stones at the intersection of many streets are, in
my opinion, decided nuisance and should be dispensed with in
the future. In their place circle stones, with either eight, ten or
twelve feet radius as each location might require, should be substituted because they will give better satisfaction, present better
appearance and be much more convenient for teams to turn the
corners.

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

There should be sewer constructed on the Springfield road
for distance of about feet along the Ingleside line. Such a
sewer would furnish ample drainage for the houses in that locality,

. besides carrying off the surface water from the west side and thereby
prevent the washouts on the east side of the road which occur every
year.

The city government of intended, when the Jackson
street trunk sewer was completed, that the Sargeant street sewer
should be connected with it and that the Canal and Jackson street
laterals should be relaid. The Canal and part of the Jackson street
sewers have been connected. Because of the failure to connect the
latter sewers number of cellars are flooded every time there is a
heavy rainstorm. Something should be done to remedy this.

I strongly urge the necessity for more sanitary carts.

STREET WATERING.

By the purchase of three new modern carts and the sale of our
four old carts, time and money can be saved. The latter are growing more and more useless year by year. They are expensive in
that they only throw twenty-foot spray, necessitating two trips

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

over thirty-foot street, while one of the modern carts, throwing as
they do thirty-foot spray, sprinkles the street thoroughly and
effectually in one trip, thereby saving one trip, besides doing the
work in more satisfactory manner. To put it plainly, two new
carts will perform the work which now requires three old carts to do.

I am informed by Mr. Hardy, Superintendent of the Water
Department, that he has special valve which he can attach to the
hydrants, by means of which the water can be turned on full force
and the same valve can be used to attach fire hose as well as the
hose used in filling the watering carts. The adoption of sucha
valve would mean great saving of time, first in filling and next in
distance, as the stand-pipes are now about feet apart, while
hydrants are not more than feet apart, and in the business section not more than feet apart.

Respectfully submitted,
(Signed) HENRY WINKLER,
Superintendent.

All of the above is respectfully submitted for your consideration.

In conclusion we wish to thank His Honor, the Mayor, the
members of the Honorable the Board of Aldermen and all other
members of the City Government for the many courtesies extended
to us during the year.

Respectfully submitted,

THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
James H. Newron, Chairman,
MicHaEt F. Watsn,
W. B. Rep.

HotyokeE, Mass., December .

To his honor, the Mayor, and the honorable, the Board of Aldermen
of the City of Holyoke, Mass.

GENTLEMEN :—The Board of Public Works begs to submit as
an addition to its report communication from the civil service
commissioners to Mr. A. E. Hemphill, secretary of the local board
of civil service examiners, said letter being delivered to the
Board of Public Works this day.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

This is submitted in amendment of the statements made on
pages two and five of the first annual report of this board,
relative to the superintendent of outdoor work. The letter is as
follows, viz. :—

[Copy]

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
OFFICE OF CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION,
Rooms  State House, Boston.
Commissioners :
Cuas. THEO. RusseLL, Chairman.
ARTHUR Lorn.
EDWARD P. WILBUR.
WARREN P. DUuDLEY, Secretary.
Henry SHERWIN, Chief Examiner.
Wittram L. Hicks, Registrar of Labor.
December .
A.E. Hemphill, Esg., Secretary Civil Service Examiners, Holyoke,

Mass.

Dear Sir:—I have submitted to the Civil Service Commissioners the inquiries contained in your letter of the  th inst., and
Ihave been directed by them to say that, in their opinion, the
Position of Superintendent of Outdoor Work in the Department of
the Board of Public Works of Holyoke does not come within
the classified service. ,

Very truly yours,

(Signed) HENRY SHERWIN,

Chief Examiner.

[A true copy |

Attest: O. C. Ferry.
Respectfully submitted,
THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS,
James H. Newron, Chairman.
M. F. WaALsH.
W. B. REIb.

Nc cchO,hhncnc        ane
|

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.

To the Honorable, the Mayor of the City of Holyoke:

I have the honor to submit for your consideration my annual
report for the current year. a

Our city is just closing its first year under the operation of its
amended charter. It is needless for me to say that so radicala
change in our method of government has been attended with some
difficulties. The various departments have required frequent opinions
from your solicitor with reference to the construction of ambiguous
parts of the City Charter.

The investigation necessary to answer the questions thus propounded to me has led me to believe that while we now havea |
charter which is far ahead of the old one, nevertheless much yet
remains to be done by way of amendment before that degree of
perfection which is desirable is arrived at.

, Our city has been extremely fortunate in the disposition of personal injury cases resulting from defective highways. One verdict
of  represents the entire expense of conducting this branch of
our legal business. Without making any invidious comparisons I
may be pardoned for saying that we have escaped by paying hundreds this year where in some past years it has cost us thousands.

William H. Brooks, Esq., has been associated with me during
the year as senior counsel. Whether the policy of retaining counsel
of experience and ability to assist in the trial of causes is wise one,

I leave to be determined by the results.

There has been no mad rush this year by every individval who
had bogus tort case against our city to get at the city treasury. .
Cases have been tried as they were reached on the court calendar, )
and in no instance has your solicitor requested continuance of
a case, nor has he granted continuance unless the party desiring
it had sufficient cause.

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  t
| There are no real important cases upon the docket at present
and what cases there are can probably be disposed of at triffling
expense to the city.

One of the most important matters which this department has had
to deal with this year is the Lyman Mills tax case, which arises out of a
petition by the Lyman Mills for an abatement of taxes assessed
for the year  The matter was referred to Arthur Lord, Esq.,
of the Suffolk bar, who is to act as commissioner.

A number of experts in cotton mill machinery and water power
have examined the plant of the Lyman Mills and are prepared to
testify in behalf of the city. The commissioner has also viewed
the premises and the case is now ready to be heard. The expense
of this contest will be considerable, but the principle involved justifies the outlay.

Your solicitor, in conformity with your order, appeared before
the Legislative Committee on Cities and opposed the passage of
the bill providing for police commission for our city. After hearing the parties the committee reported against the bill and it was
killed in the House.

That you may appreciate the condition of the law docket, here
follows the list of cases :—

City of Holyoke vs. Hadley Company.

This is an action of tort in favor of the city to recover from
the Hadley Company the sum of three thousand dollars together
with court costs and expenses. This case has arisen as result of
a verdict which Elizabeth Chagnon obtained against the city of
Holyoke for three thousand dollars damages and costs. It is hard
to discover upon what principle the city is entitled to recover
against the Hadley Company. Case pending.

Mary A. Manning, Administratrix, vs. City of Holyoke.

 This is an action of tort to recover damages for the suffering
which Michael Manning endured prior to his death, because of the
alleged negligence of the city officials who had charge of the
Pest house. ‘The case has been dismissed.

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
Frank Rivers vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an old case which was begun in  It was an
action of contract to recover for ‘‘extras’’ furnished in building
the outlet of the Elmwood sewer. have been informed that
plaintiff never intends to try the case. Pending.

Municipal Signal Co. vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of contract to recover damages for breach of
contract. At the trial in the Superior Court judgment was ordered
for the city, from which order the plaintiff excepted. The Supreme
Judicial Court has sustained the ruling of the lower court and final
judgment has been entered for defendant.

Otto Brueck vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover damages for injuries to
plaintiff's property, by the overflowing of the Jackson street sewer.
The Superior Court ordered virdict for the city. To this ruling
the plaintiff excepted. The Supreme Court has sustained the
ruling of the lower ccurt and judgment has been entered on the
verdict.

Hannah Moriarty vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover for injuries which plaintff
alleged resulted to her from defect in the highway leading trom
Holyoke to Easthampton. This was the first case was called
upon to try after qualifying. After had looked up the evidence I
appreciated at once that it was proper case to settle, but as
plaintiff had notion that she should receive several thousand
dollars deemed it best to go to trial. Verdict of six hundred
dollars.

Ellenor Kane vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover damages for personal
injuries received by reason of defect consisting of snow and ice
upon Lyman street. The matter was adjusted by the Committee
on Claims of last year.

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  
Margaret Ash vs. City of Holyoke. ,

This is an action of tort to recover damages for alleged
injuries received by falling into anopen cellar-way in front of Martin
Leary’s block on Lyman street. This case was reached for trial,
but upon certificate of the City Physician that the plaintiff was
unable to be in court, case was postponed. In the event that a
recovery should be had against the city, which is extremely doubtful,
the city can recover the amount which it is obliged to pay from the
estate of Martin Leary. Pending.

Michael Ormond vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover damages for injuries sustained by reason of defect in Bond street. The case was reached
for trial, but as plaintiff failed to appear he was non-suited. This
finally disposes of this matter.

Catherine E. Marsh vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover damages for personal injury
alleged to have been received by reason of defect in South street.
The Holyoke Street Railway Company has been summoned in to
defend this action. Pending.

John Kane vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of contract to recover damages for failure on
the part of the city to pay the plaintiff his wages during his disability, which he alleged was caused by the negligence of the city
Officials in the street department. Case was tried before jury.
After the evidence had been all put in the court ordered verdict
for defendant.

City of Holyoke vs. City of North Adams.

This is an action of contract to recover from North Adams the
amount expended for the care and nursing of Mrs. Frank Pelot,
whose settlement was in said North Adams. This case will
undoubtedly be adjusted without trial, as the parties are not far
apart on the question of settlement. Pending.

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
John J. Fitzgibbon vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover damages for personal
injuries alleged to have been sustained by reason of defect in the
sidewalk on the southerly side of Appleton street, near Race street.
Writ was dated January and returnable to the Supreme
Court the first Monday of March,  The ad damnum was
four thousand dollars. Pending.

Timothy J. Mahoney vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of contract to recover for labor and materials
furnished in building the new High School. The amount of plaintiff’s claim is five hundred and sixty-two dollars. The writ is dated
March and returnable to the Superior Court first Monday !
of May,  The ad damnum is one thousand dollars. Pending.

City of Holyoke vs. Valley Paper Company.

This is an action of contract to recover the sum of one thousand dollars for labor and materials furnished in placing water
main at the Valley Paper Company. The writ was dated April  ,
 and returnable to the Superior Court the first Monday of
May,  The ad damnum was two thousand dollars. The matter
was adjusted by the Water Commissioners and the plaintiff, prior to
the entry of the writ.

Lyman Mills vs. City of Holyoke.

This is petition to the Superior Court for the abatement of
taxes for and  ‘The petition is dated April and
returnable the first Monday of June,  This case has been prepared for hearing, which will probably take place early next year.

Henry D. Spaulding vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover damages for trespass. The
writ was dated August and was returnable to the Superior
Court of Hampshire County the first Monday of October,  The
ad damnum is one thousand dollars. The defendant appeared
specially in order that its rights might be saved if it should appear
that the jurisdiction of the court was not sufficient. Pending.

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  
Mary Ann Hamilton vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have been sustained by the plaintiff by reason of a
defect in the westerly side of Bridge street. The writ is dated November and returnable to the Superior Court the first
Monday in December,  The ad damnum is four thousand

. dollars. Pending.
J. Russell Company vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of replevin to recover possession of certain

window weights which the plaintiff had sold Michael E. Cummings,
the contractor for building the new High School. The case is of no
consequence and under conditions as they now exist, might be disposed of by an entry which would affect neither party. Case
pending.

Franz L. Martin served notice upon the city of Holyoke that
he had received personal injury owing to defect upon the southerly side of Appleton street, on the  of November,  .
The date upon which the notice was served was November .

Johanna Brassil served notice upon the city of Holyoke that
on the  th day of December,  she had received personal injury owing to defect in the easterly side of Hampden street.
The date of service was December .

Ellen Slattery served notice upon the city that upon December she received personal injury owing to defect
in the northerly side of Dwight street. The date of service was
January .

Nora White served notice upon the city of Holyoke that
upon February she received personal injury owing to
a defect in the southerly side of Lyman street. Service was made

March |

There are still pending number of petitions for abatement
of the Elmwood sewer assessment. We were not in position to
take any action upon these petitions in behalf of the city, because

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.

we have been previously retained by the petitioners. Undoubtedly
the entire matter will be adjusted at an early time during the
coming year.

Your Committee on Claims has had busy year of it, and has
been very efficient in disposing of the cases brought before it to the
advantage of the city.

My four years’ experience as City Solicitor has taught me that
if case is worth trying in court the best council obtainable is
none to good, and thet reason is that it is cheaper to pay lawyers
than to pay verdicts.

In conclusion desire to thank the various departments for
the aid which they have rendered me in the performance of my
duties.

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM HAMILTON,
City Solicitor.

REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL. :
. OFFICE OF THE CrTy MARSHAL,
Ho.tyokeE, Mass., December .
To His Honor the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen:

I have the honor to herewith submit my report showing the
condition of the Police Department and synopsis of the work
performed during the past year.

The force as now organized consists of marshal, an assistant
marshal, captain, lieutenant, police matron and patrolmen,
two of whom, Patrolmen Dennis Mack and Thomas E. Bligh, have
been detailed for special duty as detectives under the supervision |
of Assistant Marshal Herbert.

ROSTER OF THE DEPARTMENT.

M. H. Whitcomb, marshal, appointed March .

Patrick Herbert, assistant marshal, appointed March .

Francis H. Hastings, captain, appointed March .

Richard Peters, lieutenant, appointed January,  .

Dennis Mack, detective, appointed March .

Thomas E. Bligh, detective, appointed April .

Michael Shine, patrolman, appointed April .

Thomas F. Riley, patrolman, appointed January .

John A. Davis, patrolman, appointed June .

Henry J. Campbell, patrolman, appointed January .

William E. Blackmer, patrolman, appointed January .

Michael J. Lynch, patrolman, appointed January .

Patrick E. Sullivan, patrolman, appointed January .

Frank M. Priest, patrolman, appointed January .

Cornelius J. Louney, patrolman, appointed January .

  REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.
George L. Dickinson, patrolman, appointed February .
Henry W. Chamberlain, patrolman, appointed February .
Partick F. Ryan, patrolman, appointed January .
William F. Quirk, patrolman, appointed January .
Francis J. Gallagher, patrolman, appointed January .
John A. Geran, patrolman, appointed January .
John A. Powers, patrolman, appointed January .
Cornelius Curran, patrolman, appointed February .
Peter A. Cullen, patrolman, appointed February, .
James B. Griffin, patrolman, appointed February .
Patrick P. O'Sullivan, patrolman, appointed February .
John J. Moriarty, patrolman, appointed February .
| Jeremiah J. Linnehan, patrolman, appointed February .
Patrick J. Reardon, patrolman, appointed February .
Charles H. Coderre, patrolman, appointed April .
John Leary, patrolman, appointed May .
John W. Vaugh, patrolman, appointed June |
John A. Vachon, patrolman, appointed June .
George P. Buckley, patrolman, appointed February .
William P. Cummings, patrolman, appointed September |
James P. Donoghue, patrolman, appointed June .
James F. Graney, patrolman, appointed June .
Timothy Haley, patrolman, appointed February .
Rock H. Lalonde, patrolman, appointed June .
Maurice M. O’Connor, patrolman, appointed June |
Thomas Bresnahan, patrolman, appointed June .
Charles Kehl, patrolman, appointed December .
Matthew McClellan, patrolman, appointed August .
Maurice M. Shine, patrolman, appointed August .
Henry M. Fischer, patrolman, appointed August .
Mrs. Kate Moynahan, police matron, January .
STATISTICS OF ARRESTS. |
SUMMARY.
Whole number of arrests,  
Males, Lo  
#emales, Loo  

REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.  
PLACE OF BIRTH.
America, ;  
Jreland, .  
Canada, .  
England, ;  
Scotland,  
Germany, Lo oo,  
France,  
Italy, ;  
Poland, oo,  
Russia,  
Nova Scotia, .  
China, |  
Wales, |  
Austria,  
Sweden, ,  
Denmark, ,  
Prince Edward Island,  
NUMBER OF ARRESTS EACH MONTH.

December, ,  
January,  .  
February, ,  
March, ,  
April, ;  
May, ,  
June, ,  
July, “é ,  
August, .  
September, ‘“ ,  
October,   
November, ,  

  REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL. |
CAUSES OF ARREST. |
Drunkenness, oo, |
Assault, ,  
Larceny, ,  
Violation of city Ordinance,  
Disturbing the peace, ..  
Breaking and entering,  
Malicious mischief,  
Neglected child, ,  
Obtaining goods under false pretence, |
Receiving stolen goods,  
Vagrancy, . |
Bastardy, ,  
Keeping gaming house,   |
Being present at unlawful games, I
Embezzlement, ,  
Violation of rules of Board of Health,  
Illegal liquor keeping,  
Adultery, .  
Fornication, . 
Keeping house of ill-fame,  
Unlawful sparring exhibition,  
Obstructing an officer,  
Assault on an officer,  
Unlawfully taking team,  
Sureties of the peace,  
Maintaining liquor nuisance,  
Peddling without license, I
Truancy, . I
Disturbing public meeting, I
Indecent exposure of person,  
Night walking, ,  
Walking on railroad track, Lo,  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Non-support, .  
Stubborn child,  

REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.  
Gaming on the Lord’s day, ..  
Poligamy, , I
Attempt to unlawfully remove dead body,  
Failure to properly mark milk cans, I
Maintaining nuisance, I
Abandonment, . I
Carrying dangerous weapon,  
Larceny from the person,  
Attempt to break and enter, I
Attempt to commit larceny from the person,  
Cruelty to animals, .  
Contempt of court, , I
Selling mortgaged property, .. I
Total, ,  
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Fined and paid, ;  
Committed to House of Correction,  
Committed to House of Correction for non-payment of fine,  
Committed to Massachusetts Reformatory,  
Committed to Lyman School for boys,  
Committed to Lancaster Industrial School for girls,  
Committed to Reformatory Prison for women,  
Bound over to Superior Court,  
Discharged, .  
Probated and discharged,  
Filed away, ,  
Released, 
Committed to Truant School,  
Committed to care of State Board of Lunacy and Charity,  
Nolle prossed, ,  
Appealed, .  
Ordered to furnish sureties of the peace, Lo,  
Total, .  

  REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.
MISCELLANEOUS REPORTS.
Store doors found open,  
Store windows found open, |
Fires discovered and alarm given,  
Fires extinguished without alarm,  
Dangerous places in public streets,  
Stray teams found and cared for,  @
Lost children cared for,   :
Injured persons cared for,  
Dead bodies cared for,   |
Persons arrested for other cities and towns,  
Safes found open, ;  
Electric lights reported out,  
Stolen property recovered, , 
Lights out in banks,  
Dogs killed, .  
Glass broken in fire alarm boxes,  
Tramps lodged, »  
Meals furnished prisoners,  
Liquor warrants served,  
Number of gallons spirituous and malt liquors seized,  
Sick and injured persons taken home,  
Sick and injured persons taken to hospital,  
Insane persons cared for,  
REPORT OF FEMALE DEPARTMENT.
, Number of women cared for during the year ending November .  
Arrested, .  
The offences with which they were charged are as follows :—
Abandonment of child, I
Adultery, —.. ,  
Assault, ,  
Attempt at larceny from the person,  

REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.  
Disturbing the peace, .. wo,  
Drunkenness,  
Fornciation,  
Illegal liquor selling, I
Keeping house of ill fame,  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Larceny, ;  
Night-walking,  
Neglected child, ; I
Receiving stolen goods, oo, I
Sureties of the peace, I
Stubborn child, I
‘Vagrancy, ,  
Violating rules of the Board of Health, I
Total, .  
Women sent to Sherborn Prison, .. II
Girls sent to Lancaster,  .
Women placed on probation, Iz
Lodgers, , II
Insane, ,  
Oldest person in charge, Lo, years
Youngest person in charge, .. Il years
The number of women arrested during the year is smaller than
usual, and although drunkenness claims the most victims, the number recorded for that offence is thirty less than last year. There
has been some excellent work during the year in closing up several
notorious places of ill repute. would once more call attention
to the wretched condition of our women’s lockup and hope for |
improvement as soon as practicable.
Respectfully,
MRS. K. MOYNAHAN,
Police Matron.

  REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.
FINANCIAL REPORT.
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation, . 
Fines from police court,  
Fines paid to city after commitment,  
Transfer,  
Daniel Moynahan,  
Total,  —— 
EXPENDITURES. .
Payroll, , 
Miscellaneous expenses,  
Total, ——— 
Balance unexpended, 
In compliance with provision of the charter, respectfully
recommend an appropriation of  for this department for
the ensuing year. This recommendation is based upon the present
roster of the force.
ITEMS.
Appropriation, . 
Estimated receipts from County ‘Treasurer, fines, etc.,   
——— 
Payroll regular force, 
Estimate of all other expenses,  
————-  

REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.  
CHANGES IN THE FORCE.

During the year the following changes in the force have
occurred :—

Patrolman Daniel S. Cronin was suspended upon charge of
‘intoxication while on duty’’ on May After due notice
and hearing he was dismissed from the force on May  th following.

Patrolman Daniel F. Dowd was suspended upon charge of ‘‘intoxication while on duty on July After due notice and
hearing he was dismissed from the force on August roth following.

Patrolman John Hurley was suspended upon charge of intoxication and being absent from duty without leave” on August  ,
 After due notice and hearing he was dismissed from the
force on August  st following.

On August His Honor the Mayor appointed, under
civil service rules, Maurice M. Shine and Mathew McClellan as
patrolman.

On August His Honor appointed Henry M. Fischer,
under civil service rules, as patrolman. All of the above appointees
are now serving the probationary term.

ACCIDENTS.

The force has been very fortunate in this respect, only one
of serious nature having occurred. On July  th, Patrolman John
Leary received severe fracture of the bones of the ankle, from a
fall down hatchway on Lyman street, from which he has nearly
recovered, and returned to duty some time since.

REMARKS.

The need of the electric signal system and other modern
equipment to facilitate the work of the department, the bad
condition of the lockups, and the lack of humane conveniences
for caring for the insane, together with the unsanitary and other- ;
wise unfit quarters of the department, have been brought to your

  REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.
attention in previous reports, and have become well known to the
public generally, and therefore need not be repeated.

The detective branch of the service, performed by Detectives
Mack and Bligh, under the supervision of Assistant Marshal
Herbert, has been very satisfactory. Results show that there has
been little chance for thieves to escape their vigilance. The
amount of stolen property recovered and restored to its rightful
owners is exceptionally large, and the number of heavy sentences
exds that of former years. The success of this branch of the
service during Merchants’ Week’’ is worthy of mention, and
received an expression of commendation from the Business Men's
Association. With the assistance of outside detectives (who gave
their entire attention to professional workers) during the days
when large crowds were present in the city, no visitor was relieved
of his property or his person assaulted, and in every case when an
attempt was made the prompt arrest of the would-be offende:
followed.

PATROLMEN.

The patrolmen constitute the main body of the force and
upon their discipline and attention to duty largely depends its
efficiency. The discipline of the patrolmen of the department,
their attention to their duties and obedience to instructions have
never been excelled in its history. Their work this year has not
been marked by any of the petty jealousies usually observable in such
Organizations, and if any existed it was not visible. Their work
has been of the best character and take pleasure in commending
it most heartily.

The leading officers of the force, viz., the Assistant Marshal,
Captain and Lieutenant, have performed their duties in the most
acceptable manner, and by their efficient and intelligent work have
contributed in great degree to the creditable record of our work
during the year.

The female department, under the supervision of our excellent

, Matron, is worthy of especial mention, and many poor unfortunate has reason to feel grateful for her kind and patient care.

REPORT OF CITY MARSHAL.  

In conclusion, desire to express my obligations to His

Honor, the Mayor, for his advice and support; also to the various

court and city officials for the many acts of kindness and courtesy
extended to me during the year.

Respectfully submitted,
M. H. WHITCOMB, .
Marshal.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
City oF HoLyoke, December .
To His Honor the Mayor, and Gentlemen of the Board of

Aldermen,

GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the City Ordinances we
have the honor of presenting the report of the Board of Health of
the City of Holyoke for the year ending November As
required by law the board met for organization the first Monday in
February. Dr. A. B. Wetherell was chosen chairman, Joseph A.
Murray was elected clerk, Richard Shea health officer, and Dr.
Francis X. Patoel secretary. The regular meetings of the board
have been held on the first Wednesday after the first Saturday of
each month. The board found it necessary to hold number of
special meetings to give hearings upon petitions and to transact
other business pertaining to the office.

A number of visits of inspec.ion were made by the whole board.
In addition to these the members of the board individually made
very many inspection visits. The board state that during the past
year the health of the city has been better than last year and contagious diseases fewer than the previous year.

About the month of March the Board of Health was notified
of one case of small-pox at No. Summer street. The origin of
this solitary case  doubtful.

The collecting of house offal continues to be done by contract.
This contract, as during the previous year, was awarded to Patrick
Shea and M. F. Driscoll, each receiving  per month and each
to furnish bond of  for the faithful performance of his work.
This work on the whole has been done as satisfactory as the price
paid would allow.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.  

During the past year the alleys have been kept in as presentable
a condition as possible. This board recommends that the alleys
be paved, especially the alley between Maple and High, Lyman
and Hampden streets, also the alley between High and Johnstreets,
rear of Marble Hall.

The City Council, judging by the size of the appropriation
each year, seems to forget the fact that this city is taking upon itself
new localities each year. The residents of new districts are now
demanding the privileges accorded to residents in more central
localities.

The question of garbage disposal is the most serious question
with which the Board of Health has todeal. Every year it becomes
more perplexing, owing to the fact that dumping grounds are more
scarce and more remote from the business center of the city. During the year this department has been obliged to haul garbage to
places of deposit in the suburbs at an expense far beyond the limits
of economy. The importance of garbage collecting is not generally
realized, but when we consider that about loads of carbage
and loads of swill’’ have been collected and removed during the past year, some idea of its magnitude can be gained. That

"the city must eventually own garbage disposal plant is evident,
but owing to the financial condition of the city and the numerous
demands for permanent improvements, we do not advise the establishment of such plant at this time. It is imperative, however,
that this board be provided with suitable dumping grounds and we
would suggest that Elmwood Park be devoted to this purpose.

At the present time Springdale is the only available place
where garbage can be deposited all other places have been filled
up or their use has been prohibited. But although Springdale is
available it is not advisable to haul garbage such distance on
account of the expense, and should this board be obliged to haul
to Springdale, unnecessarily heavy appropriations must be the result.

Elmwood Park is convenient, centrally located and has capacity
enough to take all the garbage the city will have for twenty years to
come.

| It is possible that there will be opposition to using Elmwood
Park for this purpose, but such opposition will come from those

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

who delight in retaining the natural undulating surface of pleasure
resorts, be the cost what it may. And those who argue that the
beauty of the park will be destroyed cannot substantiate their
claim, for the park when brought somewhere near the elevation of
the surrounding land will be an attraction to the public which we
cannot say for it now. People don’t usually decend to the bowels
of the earth in search of rest. They prefer to rest where they can
see sunlight. ;

Should your honorable board allow us to use Elmwood Park
for dumping garbage, there will be no garbage crematory needed
for twenty years, and this department would be enabled to reduce its
expenses about  per day, which is the difference in cost of hauling between Elmwood Park and Springdale.

The Board of Health is pleased to state that our health officer,
Mr. Richard Shea, has spared neither time nor energy to place the
alleys in clean and most sanitary condition, and they have never
been in more presentable condition than at the present time.
We would be pleased to have you inspect them.

The Board of Health would again call the attention of your
honorable body to the extremely unsanitary condition of the waterclosets, tramp room and padded cell situated in the basement of
the City Hall, for as yet no action has been taken to remedy this
evil. There are also many cells in this basement that have, like the
padded cell, never seen the light.

This condition of affairs should not be allowed to exist;
prisoners should be placed in sanitary quarters. We would not,
however, be doing our duty if we remained silent while matters in
this basement continue to go on in this unsanitary condition.

Great care should be exercised in regard to the contagious
diseases in our schools. Inquiry should be made by the teachers as
to throat troubles and all epidemic diseases. If any be reported
such cases should be prevented from attending school and the
Board of Health immediately notified, and the patient should be
detained and isolated.

It is special necessity that each physician engaged in the
care of contagious diseases should report them at the earliest date
of diagnosis to the clerk of the Board of Health at the City Hall.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.  

We have now had four years of the plumbing ordinance and
every citizen is loud in praise of the same. Each sucding year
demonstrates more forcibly the advantages of this office. This
city is particularly fortunate in having so efficient man as Mr.
Joseph A. Murray to conduct this work.

Among the several offices in this city there exists one for the
inspection of milk. To our minds, there is no department in the
city during the months of June, July, August and September,
deserying of more careful attention.

The reason of the greatly increased mortality among infants
during the hot months is chiefly because cow’s milk is apt to be
contaminated with germs of tuberculosis, cholera-infantum and
many other diseases that, without much warning, carry these infants
off.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Original appropriation, 
Additional appropriation, —.  
Receipts,  
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Payroll of men, and team hire, .. 
Gathering house offal,  
Keeper of Pest House,  
Bills,  
—————. 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
DISEASES.
The following diseases were reported to the Board of Health
during the year :—
  :
x ce .

Month. fa  x
December,  O
January,  O
February, Oo Oo
March, fe)
April, fe) re)
May, Oo I
June, )
July,  Oo Oo
August,  O
September, Oo Oo  
()ctober,  
November, fe)

  r
il

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.  
DEATHS.

The following are the deaths by months :—

Month. Still Births, Total.
December, 
January, 
February,  
March, ie  
April,  
May,  
June, so  

July,  
August, 
September, *‘  
October, ‘*  
November,  

  YO 
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR Bb. WETHERELL, M. D.,
RICHARD SHEA,
FRANCES PATOEL,
Board of Health.

REPORT OF THE CITY PHYSICIAN.
To His Honor the Mayer, and Gentlemen of the City Council:

In accordance with the ordinance relative to the duties of the
City Physician, respectfully submit report of the work done in
this department from November to December .

, The exact number of calls made on outside poor am unable
to accurately state. fair estimate, however, may be had by considering the fact that during the months of January, February and
March made  calls.

  were made in January.
  February.
  March.

This enumeration, however, does not include calls made at the
City Almshouse, City Hospital or House of Providence Hospital.
I vaccinated (free) about school children and signed about  
vaccination certificates.

A number of calls were made at the police station, which were
generally of surgical nature. cannot see why the City Physician
should be called upon and be expected to attend those calls without
being recompensed. The greater number of those patients have
money and would pay were they instructed to, rather than be pauperized, and that, too, without their knowledge. Eight women were
attended in confinement, and ten examinations for police appointments were made.

The amount of work done in this department, from actual
figures, very materially increases from year to year. This, no
doubt, is due to the general financial depression and the increasing
number of unemployed. ‘The great majority of cases which was
called upon to treat were of chronic nature. In those cases
good care and proper nourishment would do more good than

REPORT OF THE CITY PHYSICIAN.  
medicine. The pathological condition of those people can be
- traced directly to individual vicious habits and poor sanitary surroundings. During the past three years the Board of Health, under
the guidance of our efficient plumbing inspector, has done incalculable good by removing privy vaults and substituting closets
properly trapped and vented and connected with the sewer.

Too much praise cannot be bestowed upon this department,
and, in point of health, in my opinion, occupies as important a
position as the careful management of our Water Department.
This being the case, the appropriation should be of the most
generous nature, for money should be very minor consideration
when good health is at stake.

' The general health of the city poor during the past year
has been exceptionally good. Very few cases of acute disease
have occurred. great many old people died during the year, but
very few children (city charges) passed away.

The sanitary condition of the Almshouse at the beginning of
the year was deplorable. ‘The house was very much overcrowded
and poorly ventilated; this, however, has been remedied by the
addition of two new and commodious wings. ‘The character of
the inmates, many of whom are very feeble or insane, make the
necessity of good sanitary conditions, good heating apparatus and
plenty of room of most vital importance.

The gradually increasing number of persons who come to this
department every year, make the general care and medical oversight of the Almshouse continually increasing one.

The increased amount of room which the new wings will give
will make possible the proper separation of certain classes of cases
which are of necessity received, so that large amount of quiet
and good treatment can be bestowed upon those who are obliged
to seek the aid of this department, not as the result of vicious
habits or intoxication, but as worthy objects of the city’s charity.

‘The care of the insane in connection with other cases is
always very great, and at times source of danger. ‘Those cases
should be placed separate from the other inmates, so that their
cries and generally loud disturbance could not be audible to the
old and feeble inmates.

  REPORT OF THE CI PHYSICIAN.

The general condition of the insane is about the same as in

previous years, as most of the cases are hopelessly incurable. We will have beyond any doubt, when the new departments or
wings shall have been completed, one of the best institutions of its
kind in the state. The location is one of the best and most
healthful, the view the most picturesque and grand. The advantages which will be derived by careful and scientific management
cannot at this writing be estimated. The wings will be fitted up
with all the facilities of first-class hospital. Cases which need
and have hitherto received treatment at other hospitals can be
treated as well here, and with mininium of expense.

The different phases of pauperism are indeed highly interesting, and in all truth great many cases may be denominated as
hereditary. Statistics of the first family of which we have any
history show the decendants up to date as numbering among the
thousands... The same range of symptoms, peculiar to disease, is
apparent. The artifices and devices of the hereditary pauper are
of the most ingenious character. We have among us two distinct
types of pauperism: The bold and exacting pauper who has for
generations been taught that the world owes him living, and that
without any personal effort. This species relies on his ability to
fool the heads of charity departments. Cases have been traced in
our own city where members of this class, while receiving aid from
the city, were found to have very comfortable bank accounts. It
is not necessary to mention that as soon as this fact had been
ascertained, city aid ceased. The other class is the really worthy
class, the class whose poverty comes not from choice or any fault of
its own, but from continuous series of adverse circumstances. )
Those unfortunate people, in many instances, do not receive what
they are in reality entitled to.

The great question, and the one most perplexing to our City
Almoner, is how to deal conscientiously with these different types.
It may appear to persons not acquainted with the conditions an
easy matter. The Almoner, with thousands of cases demanding
his attention, cannot possibly personally investigate each case and
ascertain the true condition. An easy way out of this matter, and
one would suggest, is that each ofhcer be instructed to ascertain

REPORT OF THE CITY PHYSICIAN.  
the true conditions of each poor family on his beat, find out
whether the family is deserving, how they live, if dissipated, whether
the parties are willing to work, and report the same at the Almoner’s
office. This would be an accurate way of getting at facts, and
tend to discourage perpetual or hereditary pauperism.

Small-pox has paid us his annual visit. At present writing
three cases are convalescing. The first case appeared at Lyman’s
block, Main street, Lois Angell, schoolgirl aged twelve,
being the victim. Owing to the condition of the patient and the
fact of the family occupying the upper floor, the Board of Health
decided not to send her to the pest house. ‘The upper floor was
quarantined and each resident of the block vaccinated. ‘Twelve
days from date of first case two other members of the family were
taken ill. At present, the disease seems to be confined in the

family, and will, feel convinced, spread no further.
J. F. BUCKLEY,
City Physician.

REPORT OF THE INSPECTOR
OF PLUMBING.
Gentlemen of the Board of Health:
As Inpector of Plumbing have the honor to submit to you
my fourth annual report, for the year ending November .
The tables which follow show to what extend and nature the
work has been done.
Number of permits granted,  
““ —water-closets put in new buildings,  
“  sinks “e  
“ baths 
“ “bowls  
‘  wash trays  
‘“é “urinals 
‘é ‘* traps  water-clusets oid Soo
‘e sinks 
“  baths “s  
‘ ‘bowls  
‘ wash trays 
“ urinals  
‘é “traps ‘“ ‘“ 
Houses with defective plumbing,  
Privy vaults ordered removed from premises,  
Inspections made of old and new plumbing work,  
Legal notices served to abate nuisances,  
Each of these cases has complied with the requirements of the
board. Many nuisances have been abated on verbal notices from
the inspector without action by the board, and of which no record
have been made.

REPORT OF THE INSPECTOR OF PLUMBING.  

The sanitary condition of our city has been greatly improved
by the removal of the unsightly privy vaults and the substitution
of water-closets in the houses.

The rules relating to plumbing have been carefully revised to
keep pace with the science of plumbing and house drainage. The
work that an inspector of plumbing iscalled upon to do is the most
important of any that enters into the construction and finish of the
buildings erected in this city, and were it not for the watchful and
careful attention to the plumbing work done in these buildings,
sickness and death would be the results to the unsuspicious occupants. Therefore, the citizens in general will see that clean and
healthful surroundings and good substantial plumbing work is needed
in their homes, none of which can be guaranteed without the aid ‘
and supervision of the experienced inspector.

It is my wish that all property owners will in the future require
their plumbers to give them the certificate of inspection furnished
from this office; such certificate is given to every plumber on the
completion and final examination of his work, which is to be given
to the owner or agent of the property where the plumbing work has
been done.

Thanking you for the confidence in the past, and hoping I
may merit the same in the future, remain

JOSEPH A. MURRAY,
Inspector of Plumbing.

Horyoke, Mass., December .
. To His Honor the Mayor, and the City Council of Holyoke:

. The commissioners of the sinking fund for the payment of
municipal bonds respectfully submit the following report :—
Amount of fund reported December  |

 $ 
Received on account of appropriations by
the City Council :
February $ 
July .  
————-  
Dividends on bank stocks and interest on
city bonds, . 
Less amount of premiums paid on bonds
maturing in  now charged to
interest account,  
$ 
Received interest on mortgage loans and
on deposits,   :
——— 
Total amount of fund this date, 

REPORT OF THE SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.  
INVESTED AS FOLLOWS :
Loans on real estate, . 
Thirty-nine shares of bank stock, par  
Woburn city bonds per cent, due in  ‘“  
Woburn “e  
Brockton “e 
Boston   
Boston  
Milwaukee ‘* 
Milwaukee ‘“ 
Cleveland   
Manchester “e  “*  
Salem “- “s 
Saginaw  
Malden  “*  
Malden , 
Keene oe  
Worcester ‘“  
Holyoke   
Holyoke -Igto, 
Detroit  ‘“ 
Watertown townb’ds   
Watertown 
Bristol county b’ds 
Middlesex ‘*   
Premiums paid on bonds and bank stock,  
‘Cash deposited with national banks on interest,  
) 
GEORGE W. PRENTISS,
R. B. JOHNSON, LEMUEL SEARS,
Commissioners.
 In Board of Aldermen, Dec. Read and received.
EDWARD A. KANE,
Clerk.

HoLyokE, Mass., December .
To the Flonorable Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City of
Hlolvoke :
FINANCIAL REPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS FOR YEAR ENDING
DECEMBER .
Balance, . 
Appropriation,  
———— 
Iexpense, Hampden Park, 
“ Prospect,  
“ Elmwood,  
‘  Cononchet,  
“ Hamilton  
“ Germania“  
General expenses,  
—-  
Balance, tk 
Expenditures authorized by the Board :—
Foundation for Ordinance, 
Extension of Maple street culvert,  
The parks have been well cared for during the year by the
several park-keepers and the people of the city seem to appreciate
and make use of the parks for their recreation more and more each
year.

KEPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS.  

The fence built late in the season of  on the brow of the
hill on Prospect Park, has been great improvement and is great
safety to the many people who frequent that park. grass plot at
the west end of Prospect Park has been set off by the Park Commissioners for the use of women and children.

The walks on Cononchet Park have been badly washed by the
heavy rains of the summer, and it is apparent that quite an expenditure should be made to make these walks more permanent than
they are at present. ‘The nearness of this park to the West street
school adds to the necessity of putting it in prime condition.

Some of the cross-walks on Hampden Park are low and fill up
with slush and water in warm weather during the winter and spring,
and it has been proposed to remedy this by raising the walks to a
higher level so as to prevent the accumulation of water and slush
along these walks.

The work at Elmwood Park has been carried on during the
entire summer. Many trees and shrubs have been set on this park
and the bank on the ravine south of Jackson street has been
graded and covered with fertilizing material and loam and sown
down with grass seed the entire distance from Maple street to the
tool house. It will require one or two years to complete the
improvements as now planned. ;

The Cummissioners recommended the extension of the Maple
street culvert to the west sufficient to give margin of table landon
the west side of Maple street, across the end of the Dingle.”

In case the culvert shall be extended, this could be filled with
the ashes, etc., from the back alleys during the winter months,
saving more than the cost of extending the culvert.

The Ewing and Ranger Parks have been cared for during the
year.

The Park Commissioners ask for an appropriation of 
for the care of the parks for  not including the cost of extend- |
ing the culvert.

JOHN McNAIRN,
Secretary. ,

MILK, VINEGAR AND
Orrice oF INspecror, No. Hampden Street, }
Hoiyoke, Mass., December j
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

I have the honor to submit herewith the following report as

Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum, for the city of Holyoke,
for the year :—
Total number of licenses granted,  
Number of licenses granted to peddlers,  
Number of licenses granted to stores,  
I have paid into the city’s treasury as license fees

received, $ 
The number of quarts of new milk sold daily in this

city is, .  
The number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily in

this city, .  
Making total of,  

This does not include the cream.

The retail value of milk and cream for the year ending

 November amounts to over .

Number of warnings sent, one.

I have had one case in the Police Court on account of the
skimmed milk can not being properly marked. ‘The party prosecuted was convicted, and fined fifty dollars.

REPORT OF INSPECTOR OF MILK, ETC.  

The samples of milk that have tested have, as rule, been
very good. The exceptions were several samples that were dirty
and evidently came from stables that were not properly kept.

By chemical analysis, it cannot be determined whether milk is
fit for food or not. Of course the smell, taste and looks of milk
determine that in some respects, but the milk may have disease germs
and still to all appearance and chemical test be good milk. Epidemics of typhoid fever and cholera-infantum have been caused by
impure milk, rendered so either by improper feeding of cows, impure water given them, or from the filthiness of their quarters and
attendance. Qf course the adulteration of milk, by the addition of
water, is fraud upon the public and should be stopped. think
the inspector should visit every stable possible that is within his
jurisdiction, from which milk comes, and not to do this once a
year, but at frequent intervals. think this the most important
part of the inspector’s duty. To do this he should be paid a
salary that will remunerate him, as the inspector’s duties should
demand his entire time.

I have had many complaints of poor milk, but as they have all
been ina general way could do nothing about them. notified
the Board of Health of several milk peddlers who where carrying
swill in their milk teams, and they were notified to stop the same.
The Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum should be under the
direction of the Board of Health, as in Boston and other large
cities.

VINEGAR.

The inspection of vinegar is another important thing, and the
reason have not made more inspections is the lack of apparatus
and funds. The vinegar in general use is without doubt very
much adulterated, and there is great deal of vinegar sold that dues
not come up to the standard. [ut as it is very important article
of food it should be attended to.

OLEOMARGARINE.
As far as know there is none sold in this city.

  REPORT OF INSPECTOR OF MILK, ETC.
PETROLEUM.

Probably all the kerosine oil sold in this city is brought here
in tank cars, and have inspected all that has come in here, which
if calculated by barrels  gallons per barrel) would be about
 .

I had trouble with one concern regarding the quality of their
oil, with the result that they stopped sending it here. The quality
of the oil sold here for the past few months is very poor, but not
quite poor enough to condemn it lawfully. Some people think that
I am responsible for the poor oil sold, but cannot prod
against any of the dealers so long as they keep within the law.
Owing to strong competition the price of oil has been very low,
and, as natural consequence, the quality of the oil has not been
very high.

In conclusion would say that for several years past have
been urging upon the city government the necessity of fitting up
a laboratory suitable for the work belonging to this office, but
nothing has been done as yet. once more ask that laboratory
be furnished and the inspector paid in proportion to his duties.
It seems to me rather absurd that the officer and chemist, looking
after the most important and easily adulterated article of food
and liable to carry disease, in city like Holyoke with nearly
  inhabitants, should be paid the small salary of where
the value of the article sold amounts to more than  annually.
The fees collected by the inspector for licenses amount to almost
as much as his salary for the entire year, which shows that the
present salary of the inspector is scarcely sufficient to cover
the cost of the clerical work, not to speak of time spent as inspector. would suggest that  be appropriated for this department, that it may be worthy of its name.

Respectfully submitted,
JAMES K. MORRILL,
Inspector.

SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES.
DECEMBER I,  TO NOVEMRER .
BOARD OF HEALTH.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
Keceipts, .  
$ 
Expenditures (see report of Board of Health),  
CITY PROPERFY.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,   
Receipts, ,  
, 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report of Board of Public Works), 
CITY ENGINEERING.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, ,  
$ 
Transfer from, ,  
Expenditures (see report of City Engineer), 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
CONTINGENT.
Appropriation, $ 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Charles Ely, burial agent, . 
T. D. O’Brien, attorney claim Fitzgerald vs. City,  
S. Lapalme, “Richmond vs. City,  
M. F. Druce, “Kane vs. City,  
T. D. O’Brien, “Daly vs. City,  
T. B. O'Donnell, ‘* Doody vs. City, YOO. 
Brooks& Hamilton, ** Lindsay vs. City,  
“ “s ‘* Brown vs. City,  
John B. O'Donnell, Moriarity vs. City,  
F.& P. Donoghue, claim,  
Mrs. Theodore Lubold, £ 
Mrs. Ramsden, cc,  
Paul H. Koehler, we  
Ir. A. Spooner, ot,  
J. J. Linehan, “ey  
Edward A. Kane, city clerk, recording births,  
M. J. Doyle Printing Co., printing municipal register,  
J. M. Philips, Q. M. Kilpatrick Post  G. A. R.,
Memorial Day exercises,  
st. Jerome T. A. B. Society, rent for polling place,  
. Winkler Lubold, “ou  
EK. H. Howland, nn  
Mrs. Charlotte Ayen, fo 
J. Delaney estate, of  
Shields Court M.C.O. F., 
Dr. George H. Clark, eos  
Hampden Social Club, ores  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  

Alderman H. A. Collings, et als, to Columbus, Ohio,
traveling expenses, . 
J. J. Kirkpatrick, traveling expenses,  
Henry Stratton,  postage, etc.,  
Pierre Bonvouloir,  
Alderman Hugh McLean,  
D. W. Kenney, postage,  
Alderman P. J. Westphal,  
Roland T. Oakes, electrical supplies and repairs,  
W. R. Weaver, ce “é eo,  
Greenough, Adams Cushing, record ink,  
Fred Aurnhammer Book Binding Co., book binding,  
Highland Spring Water Ice Co., ice,  
V. J. O'Donnell, deputy sheriffs fees,  
John Cumnock, expert witness fees in Lyman Mills case,  

Benjamin C. Brainerd, expert witness fees in Lyman
Mills case,  
Charles E. Emery, retainer,  

Edward A. Brigham, expert witness fees in Lyman
Mills case,  
W. H. Chapin, hotel expenses for expert witnesses,  
August Lehmann, advertising,  
Democrat,  ,
La Presse,   
Free Press,   
Roy Bros.,   ,
Boston Daily Advertiser,“  
German American Publishing Co., advertising,  
Investor Publishing Co.,  
Transcript Publishing Co., 
Transcript Publishing Co., printing,  
Hubbard Taber,  
H. C. Cady Printing Co.,  
Henry M. Meek,  
Morse, the printer,  
M. J. Doyle Printing Co.,   
Griffith, Axtell Cady Co,  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
T. F. Kegan’s Sons, piping repairs, 
Sullivan, Carmody Weseley, plumbing repairs,  
Curran Bros., floor wax, etc., sundries,  
Goodall Drug Co., co,  
National Blank Book Co., blank books,  
E. J. Hill,  
A. E. Martell Co.,  
Charles S. Brunner Co.,  
J. B. Lutz Lithograph Co., lithographic work,  
Ryan Burns, cigars legislative committee on rivers
and harbors,  
Hotel Hamilton, hotel expenses for same committee,  
F. S. Buck, rubber stamps,  
Morgan, Crossman& Co,  
Thomas J. Morrow, repairing clock,  
P. J. Griffin, team hire,   
John Gee’s estate, team hire, Cok  
Thomas Conway,   
James P. Hobert,  
H. H. Carter, oe  
I. N. Cabana, os  
William Bialkosky, “*   
Geo. I. Fitch Co.“  
John Dillon, os g. 
Fitzgerald Co., stationery, ..  
R. R. Nickerson, “cc  
C.J. Bresnahan, ““  
M. A. Allen Sons, gas globes, tapers, etc.,  
Holyoke Water Power Co., lighting City Hall,  
D. L. Farr, auditing Treasurer’s books,  
New England Telephone Co., telephone tolls,  
A. R. Andrews, typewriting supplies,  
| E. A. Kane, postage, stationery, express,  
James C. Keough, postage, stationery, express,  
Robert O. Morris, Clerk of Courts, fees,  
Demers Sons, photographs,  
Smith White Mfg. Co., paper pads,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
] E. B. Sellew, typewriter, desk and paper, 
Indian Alkali Works, chemicals, ..  
B. F. Bigelow, postage, etc.,  
Hadley Paper Co., paper stock,  
M. J. Moynihan, machinist, repairs,  
William Hamilton, City Solicitor, sundry expenses in
litigation, ,  
Henry H. Faxon, Compendium of Liquor Laws,  
G. E. Russell Co., hardware,  
New England Towel Supply, laundry, toa ]
W. J. Blanchard, gas burners,  
John Tilley, dusters, tables,  
American Renovene Co., cleaning carpet,  
M. J. Laporte, cartage and freight,  
Holyoke Envelope Company, envelopes,  
Dr. J. C. Hubbard, witness fees,  
Dr. J. F. Buckley, wo,  
Thomas J. Tierney, fo,  
Dr. J. M. Fay, eo,  
Henry Winkler, eo,  
William Rooney, oo,  
A. B. Chapin, legal services, etc.,  
M. S. Dickinson, attorney’s fees,  
Storey Thorndike, oe  
Casper Ranger, carpenter repairs,  
Price, Lee Co., directories,  
J. T. Hunter, disinfectant,  
West Disinfectant Co.,  
Dexter Bowles, disinfectant,  
Ella G. Fogarty, typewriting,   
The Misses Arnold,  
Investor Publishing Co., subscription,  
Municipality and County,  
F. S. Blanchard Co., Massachusetts Year Book,  
Postal Telegraph Co., telegrams,  
William Corner, boiler compound,  
Herman Buchholz, decorating City Hall,  
ss

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. :
James T. Burns, looking up records, 
Blackbird Pen Co., pens,  
A. F. Glesmann, ammonia, etc.,  
J. J. Nugent,  
Dr. E. J. Mahoney, birth returns,  
Dr. Louis H. Clark,  
Dr. Josephine de la Nouville, birth returns,  
Dr. F. N. Deroin (Chicopee), eo,  
Mrs. J. B. Marchand, “oo,  
Dr. C. H. Pomerat, “e eo  
Dr. F. A. Woods, eo,  
Dr. A. T. Prentiss, “e oo,  
Dr. Julia M. Patten, ‘“ oo,  
Dr. F. X. Patoel, oo,  
Dr. J. J. O’Connor,  oo,  
Dr. A. S. Menard,  co,  
Dr. J. J. McCabe, 
Dr. J. H. Marin, eo,  
Dr. S. A. Mahoney, eo.  
Dr. G. Lyman Kinne, ““ wo  
Dr. C. E. Kiefe, eo,  
Dr. J. C. Hubbard, eo,  
Dr. Frank Holyoke,  oo,  
Dr. H. H. Egbert, eo,  
Dr. J. A. Donner, oe  
Mrs. T. Giroux, wo,  
Franziska Greule, oo,  
Mrs. R. Wruck, oo,  
Emelia Kuhn, “e ce,  
Mrs. William Kelley, oe,  
Dr. D. F. Donoghue, “e 
Dr. Charles H. Curran, eo,  
Dr. O. J. Comtois, ‘e oo,  
Dr. John N. Coghlan, oe,  
Dr. F. J. Cloutier, ‘“ oo.  
Dr. George H. Clark, ““ oo,  
Dr. Jean H. Celce, oe  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Dr. Frank Celce, birth returns, 
: Dr. Charles O. Carpenter,eo,  
Dr. John F. Buckley, oo,  
Dr. Charles Blodgett, eo,  ,
Dr. C. A. Allen, “e oo,  
Dr. F. A. Mead (Willimansett), mo,  
Dr. W. H. Dean (Springfield), “co,  
Dr. Cutler (Northampton), eo, 
Mrs. J. Selelsky, “oe,  
Dr. T. F. Reardon (Thompsonville), birth returns,  
Dr. Arthur B. Wetherell, birth returns,  
Dr. Lyman M. Tuttle,  .
Dr. E. H. Tierney,  
Dr. George L. ‘Taylor,  
Dr. William M. St. George,“ oo.  
Dr. George H. Smith, “s  
Dr. Henry R. Sackett, 
Dr. Joseph H. Dixon, ““  
Dr. Louis A. Desrosiers,  ‘“  
Dr. Ella M. Davis,  
Dr. Joseph S. Daigneault,  
Dr. Gardner Cox,   
T. F. Broughall (Springfield), death returns,  
N. L. Bryant,  
F,. L. Morse (Westfield),  
Dr. J. C. Hubbard,  
J. J. Gleason (Springfield), “e  
U. E. Mitchell (Southampton),  
Dr. D. F. Donoghue,  
J. H. Clune (Springfield),  
P. M. Shea (Chicopee Falls),  
A. F. Gingras,  
T. F. Ryan, 
James P. Hobert,  
Wells Lathrop,  
Bartholomew Shea (estate),  
Charles R. Alger, ‘“  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
Adolphus Codaire, death returns, 
John Dillon, 
Joseph Dupont,  
Dr. J. F. Buckley, witness fees,  
W. H. Brooks, Esq., legal services,  
Timothy F. Moriarty, clerical work,  
Lizzie M. Reardon, stenographer, ..  
W. H. Abbott, treasurer Kilpatrick Post G.A. Rk. .
expenses of securing ordinance, |
J. K. Morrill, inspector milk, etc., rent and supplies,  
$ 
. FIRE DEPARTMENT.
PAY OF MEMBERS.
Appropriation, $ 
Transfer from, .  
$ 
Expenditures (see report of Boardof Fire Com.),  
Balance, ,  
REPAIRS AND CONTINGENT.
Balance on hand December $ 
Appropriation,  
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Fire Com.),  
WATER.
Appropriation, . 
Expenditures (see report Board of Fire Com.),  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
HOSE.
Balance on hand December $ 
Appropriation, ,  
$ 
Transfer from, .  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Fire Com.),  
Balance, . 
SALARIES.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Fire Com.),  
FUEL AND STREET LIGHTS.
Appropriation,  
Additional appropriation,  
$ 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works), 
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
INTEREST.
Appropriation, to 
Receipts, ,  
$ 
Transfer from, . 
Expenditures, . 
PARKS.

Appropiation, . 

Receipts, .  
$ 

Expenditures (see report of Park Commissioners),  

Balance, , 

PUBLIC LIBRARY.

Appropriation, . 
Expenditures to H. A. Chase, treasurer,  
PAUPER DEPARTMENT.

Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  

$ 
Transfer from, ,  
Expenditures (see report Overseers of Poor), 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
POLICE.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
$ 
Transfer from, ,  
Expenditures (see report City Marshal), -- 
SALARIES.
Appropriation, . 
Transfer from, .  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
James J. Curran, Mayor, . 
George H. Smith, Mayor,  
George H. Smith, member Board of Health,  
John J. Kirkpatrick, City Engineer,  
Edward A. Kane, City Clerk,  
Edward A. Kane, Registrar of Voters,  
‘D. W. Kenney, City Auditor,  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer,  
James C. Keough, Tax Collector, on account,  
Thomas F. Greaney, Superintendent of Outdoor Work,  
Henry Winkler, Superintendent of Outdoor Work,  
William T. Walsh, City Messenger,  
James J. Dowd, Chairman Board of Assessors, Joseph St. Martin, Assessor,  
Joseph J. Kelley, ‘s  
James T. Cunningham, City Almoner,  
James T. Cunningham, Overseer of Poor,  
Dr. John F. Buckley, City Physician,  
Dr. John F. Buckley, member Board of Health,  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
A. B. Chapin, City Solicitor, 
William Hamilton, City Solicitor,  
Bernard F. Bigelow, Inspector of Provisions, etc. (’ -’ ),  
James K. Morrill, Inspector of Milk, etc.,  
Timothy J. O’Connor, Clerk of Committees,  
John C. Doran, Clerk of Committees,  
John P. McTigue, Clerk of Council,  
James H. Newton, Chairman Board of Public Works,  
Michael F. Walsh, member Board of Public Works,  
William B. Reid, member Board of Public Works,  
Edward S. Waters, Chairman Board of License Com.,  
Marden W. Prentiss, License Commissioner,  
Jeremiah F. Sullivan, License Commissioner,  
Dr. C. H. Curran, License Commissioner,  
Jeremiah Scannell, Assistant Janitor, City Hall,  
Thomas Stansfield, Registrar of Voters,  
P. J. Gilligan, Registrar of Voters,  
Ophir E. Genest, Registrar of Voters,  
Richard Shea, member Board of Health,  
Dr. A. B. Witherell, member Board of Health,  
Dr. F. X. Patoel, member Board of Health,  
Joseph Murray, Clerk Board of Health,  
Richard Gilday, Clerk Overseers of Poor,  
A. F. Gingras, Overseer of the Poor,  
George H. England, Sealer of Weights and Measures,  
A. Judson Rand, care taker of the City Hall clock, 
Payroll precinct officers,  
Total, . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
| SCHOOLS.

Appropriation, . 

Additional appropriation,  

Receipts, ;  

$ 

Transfer from, .  

$ 

Expenditurers (see report of School Board),  

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

Appropriation, . 
Receipts, ,  

$ 

Transfer from, .  

$ 

Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  

SIDEWALKS.

Appropriation, $ 

Receipts, .,  

 

Transfer from, .  

$ 

Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  

BILLS PAYABLE.
Appropriation, . 
Expenditures (see Treasurer's report),  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.

WIDENING NORTHAMPTON STREET.
Appropriation, - 
Expenditures (land damages),  

STREET WATERING.

Appropriation, . 
Receipts,. —..  

$ 
Transfer from, .  

$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  

WHITING STREET FUND.

Balance December . 
Receipts, ,  

$ 
Expenditures, .  
Balance December . 

HEATING AND VENTILATING NONOTUCK STREET
SCHOOL.

Balance December , 
Expenditures, ;  
LICENSE FUND.

Receipts, . 
Transfer from, .  

$ 
Expenditures, State Treasurer,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
WARD ONE SCHOOL AND SITE.
Balance December . 
Transfer from,  
$ 
Expenditures, ;  
STATE AID.
Receipts, . 
Additional transfer,..  
$ 
Expenditures,  
MILITARY AID.

Receipts, . 
Transfer from,  
$ 

Expenditures,   ;

HIGH SCHOOL AND SITE.

Balance December - 
Transfer from school bond loan,  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
$ 
Balance December -  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
ALMSHOUSE ADDITION.
Balance December . 
Appropriation, .  
Additional appropriation,  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
$ 
Balance, December ..  
SOLDIERS’ RELIEF.

Appropriation by transfer, . 
Expenditures, ,  
PUBLIC WORKS CONTINGENT.
Appropriation, $ 
Additional appropriation,  

$ 

Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  

) CITY HALL FUND.

Receipts, ; 

Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  

$ 

Balance December .  
FURNISHING ALMSHOUSE ADDITION.

Appropriation, . 

Expenditures, .  

$ 

Balance December ,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
ASSESSORS’ DEPARTMENT.
Appropriation, . 
Expenditures, .  
$ 
Balance December ,  
ST. JEROME AVENUE, CHARLES AND CANBY STREETS
EXTENSIONS.
Appropriation, . 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
— 
Balance December .  
PAVING.
Appropriation, , 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, ;  
$ 
Transfer from, .  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
HIGH SCHOOL FURNISHING.
Transfer from school bond loan, 
Expenditures,  
$ 
Balance December .  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
; HIGH STREET WIDENING.
Appropriation by transfer, . 
Additional appropriation,  
$ 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
ELMWOOD, OAKDALE AND SPRINGDALE SEWER ASSESSMENTS.

Balance December . 
Receipts, -  
$ 

Expenditures (rebates),  
$ 

 Balance December -  

CORPORATION TAX.

Receipts, . 
Expenditures, .  
$ 

Transfer from, -  

NATIONAL BANK TAX.

Receipts, - 
Expenditures, Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  
$ 

Transfer from,  

SEWER ASSESSMENT No.  .

Receipts, . 
Transfer from, .  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SEWER ASSESSMENTS.

Transfer to, , 
Expenditures (rebate),  
SEWER ASSESSMENTS,  .

Receipts, . 
Transfer from, ,  
SEWER ASSESSMENT No.  .

Receipts, , 
Transfer from, .  
SEWER ASSESSMENT,  .

Receipts, . 
Transfer from, oe  
CITY INDEBTEDNESS.

Notes. Due  
“  
Bonds, yrs.. per cent. Municipal, Due Sept.  
“  ** “t  ‘* Oct.  ‘* Water, Jualy  
“  **  Municipal, July  
“ ls Aprill, 

‘s ‘+  July  :
“  Refunding R.R.Stock,** Oct.  :
se ‘* Hol. .H.F.Bridge, ‘* Sept.  :
“  Sewer, ‘May  :
 —-d  **  Refunding R.R.Stock,** July  :
‘ ‘* Sewer, Oct.  :
oe **  H. and W. Bridge, June  :
“ ‘** §chool, Junel, 
“ ‘*  July  
*s ** “s ‘“s ‘* Mch.  
“e ‘+ ‘s Water,  Jan. lO ‘+ ‘- Municipal, July  
ry se se ae Dec.  

Total debt, 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
SINKING FUNDS.
Sinking Fund, Water Bonds, July  
ss és cs Jap. 
“ Municipal Bonds, all series,  
“ se accumulations,  
‘ Holyoke and South Hadley Falls Bridge
Bonds, Sept. .,  
Sinking Fund, Holyoke and Willimansett Bridge Bonds,
June .  
Sinking Fund, School Bonds, series 
$ 
Holyoke Westfield R. R. stock, par value,  
$  
Total net debt, .  
There are  in the account of Elmwood, Oakdale
and Springdale sewer assessments which belong to the Sewer Sinking Fund, but awaits the closing of the account before transferring it.
LOANS—HOW DISTRIBUTED.
WaTER Bonps, THIRTY YEARS, PER CENT.
Transfer to Water Department,  Loan, C  
Premium,  Bo .o 
Interest, oe on |
$ ,Q I.UL S$ .yIttl
SCHULOL Bonps, TWenry YEARS, PER CENT.
Transfer to High School,  Loan, , 
“ High School Furntshing, Premium,  
“ sinking Fund, School Loan, Interest,  y
‘* Interest,  
$  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
MunicitpaL Bonps,  TEN YEARS, PER CENT.

Transfer to Sinking Fund, Loan, , 
“ “e Premium,  
“ Interest, Interest,  
“  Loan,  
“ Almshouse Addition, Premium,  
“ City Property, Interest,  

“ Paving,  

““ Schools, .C 

“ Fuel and Street Lights,  

“* Highways and Bridges,  

“* Fire Dept., Pay of Members,  

“ ‘* Repairs and Con'g’t,  

“* Water,  C. 

a ‘* Hose,  

 ‘* Salaries,  

“ Parks,  

“ Sewers and Drains,  

“s High Street Widening,  

“ Contingent,  

“ Police,  G, 
$  

Dent STATEMENT FOR  .
Water Loan (outside debt limit), , 
School Loan (outside debt limit),  
Municipal Loan, .  
$ 
Notes paid during  .  
Net increase in city debt, . 
. ‘TEMPORARY LOANS.

Notes paid,   Balance Dec.  
Balance,   Loans,  
$  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
TAXES.
J. C. Keough, Tax Collector, in account with the City of Holyoke.
Dr. Cr.
 Dee. .
To balance taxes,   Nov.  —By cash to date, 
By balance,   Bico,  .
Dec. r—To balance taxes,   Nov.  By cash to date, 
To balance,    .
Dec.  —To balance taxes,  Nov.  —By cash to date,  
To balance,  
#  .y   .
Aug.  —Taxes   Nov.  —By cash to date,  
To balance,  
$  
SIDEWALK TAXES.
  .

Dec.  —To balance sidewalks,  Nov.  —By cash taxes,  y,  
rr} es (s se 
“ os rr  ia oe  ac  
as ts or) se   

To balance,  
$  
|

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SUMMARY.
 Nov.  Balance due.  Nov.  Balance due.
‘Taxes,   Taxes, sidewalks, 
“   
‘   
Total amount due,  
William Haney, Tax Collector, in account with the City of
Holyoke.

  .

Nov.  —By balance, Dec.  —By balance, ,
Nov.  —By cash to date,  
$ 
Pierre Bonvouloir, sewer assessment,  .
To total assessments,  By cash,  
To balance,  
$  
D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE
POOR.
To the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke :

The Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit their twentythird annual report, for the year ending November .

Owing to the continued depression in business and the scarcity
of work for laboring people, we have to report an increase of expenditures over that of last year. The year just closed has been
unprecedented in the history of the city in the number of persons who have been relieved and supported at the public expense,
as well as the amount of money expended. The causes which have
made it necessary for so many able-bodied men and women to
apply for assistance are well known to all, and need not be explained by us. The condition exists and must be met, and in doing
so it has been the constant aim of this board to furnish such relief
to applicants as in our judgment was for the best interests of the
applicants and the welfare of the city.

SETTLEMENT WORK.

This is the most important work of the administration of this
department that is, to place the expense of every recipient of aid
where it legally belongs, on the state for persons having no settlement, and if settled to the place of settlement. To place many of
these cases where they legally belong requires much time, great
deal of research and some expense. It is very important that the
question of settlement be determined correctly, as once family is
acknowledged city case, that family is very apt to be an expense
to the city for number of years.

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE PUOR.  

We have during the year received fifty-three notices from the
several cities and towns of the state for families aided by them and
claiming settlement in this city. After investigation we were able
to successfully deny twenty of these cases, they having nosettlement
in this city. We have also received ten notices from the State
Board of Lunacy and Charity for persons in state institutions and
claiming settlement in this city. Four of these cases we acknowledged, and six of them we were able to show were not legally
chargeable to this city.

We have sent eighty notices to other cities and towns in the
state for persons living in this city and receiving aid, but who were
settled elsewhere in the state, and two hundred and seventy-eight
notices to the State Board of Lunacy and Charity for persons aided
here and having no known settlement in the state.

Number of families aided during the year,  

. ‘s ‘‘ persons ‘s  
“  ‘“ families aided in   

“  “persons ‘&  

The total expense for the year for all classes of partial and

full support was  and divided as follows :—

City, outdoor poor, 

“ sick at hospitals,  

‘burials,  
$ ,

State, outdoor poor, 

‘‘ sick at hospitals,  

‘burials,  .

Cities and towns, outdoor poor, 

oo ‘* sick at hospitals,  

oou burials,  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Insane outside of almshouse, 
Overseer of the Poor,  
Almshouse,  
———— 
Making total of 
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation, 
Transfers, ‘,  
Receipts from all sources,  
Total, .  |
Balance unexpended, 
The following is detailed statement of expenses outside of almshouse :—
——

| 
‘Te Sa -a Fo
| morn  eek  
, ie} bai} foe) ie)  
“ nN SS 
om gR RSS GEESE TD
) nN  eo 
.  
ana qu ao Sank sar  
[GD Jo panog see tee 
wowimy [PERSE EER TELE
 rm Oo oO as  Fo
| Z  SRE |S
*[B }dHo  in

£  pur eatep aor F&F  *
a RRS Ss  
fore) eR é
 pain be  ses iy
| ssegeigeis 
ow 
tf nan AW oOo  AT gag
“Lies SSsossooso  "
| aa  
ny ['amngowsece  BBS  JO S$ &
eH eagesnhs eB  
-aoyw se  as 
p DoneHodens aL  Z
fs) EP RELELELESE
 }j EN GOB b)eR SRR SRS gg é
(x, GOB IV et
q go —)  @
a  ed
  aE: a
 oO  
‘e  
Z. uveuy Zz Ss  #
I os  
e Land ‘
iA to tuemn eoy wD  nN
Aiauoyy Oooo 
s alg
. ys a
men SEE Eg :
fH mo]  s
eo mm oa Qo  
( a
“OfD}Pe JV  a
a paw Suyean  e
aN fo.)  oO  
( s.  a
i fa Si eg  sae S
i sumog  
op) es oe  
“wwe [EFESeSSERPES|D
A Sas es s
fa)  a" RBS
,  Ss s&s oe
 os  
P,  aH &
fx) Fr read easels
ae ;
la ‘lang  Fase eser we
—   oa  ca
ee  N
“quu  &- F
®
. 
yoy RRR SE is
g@eseeges 
eepss oa  &
o an SS “
  t
| ae EH .
poy BEE ra ne
ee [PPT
ps  vos wo  YQ ime]
+ fal‘o
;  PS) as‘
qiwaojy  .-  
ggeen  |
eo  ad
 b-|  
  TM a

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
OUTDOOR RELIEF.

Unlike most cities in the State this is the largest item of
expense to the department, and will continue to be so until large
number who are now supported outside are cared for at the almshouse where they can be much better cared for and at less expense.

The calls for this class of relief thus far the present winter are
fully as great as that of last year and, unless all indications fail, will
be so during the whole of the winter season.

City, outdoor,  |
State, ‘“   |
Other cities, outdoor,  
$ 
INSANE.

This class of paupgr expenditure has increased at an alarming
rate during the past year, in which time there were twenty-two per- |
sons committed to the Northampton Lunatic Hospital from this |
city, and six to other institutions for the insane in the state who
were legally settled here and for whom the city had to pay.

Number of insane at Northampton Lunatic Hospital December

  .  
Number committed during the year,  
Number committed to other institutions,  
Whole number during the year, }
Number discharged during the year, |
Number remaining December 
The cost of these patients is  per week, and cost

during the year, , 
Cost of insane for the year   

We are in hopes to reduce this item of expense during the
coming year by removing number of the mild cases to the almishouse when that institution  completed.

—z

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
SICK POOR.

The city and the poor who are compelled to receive the necessary hospital treatment through this department are to be congratulated on having in the city two such splendid institutions for the
care of the sick as the House of Providence and the City Hospital the poor, for the excellent care they receive, and the city, for
the very reasonable rate charged for city patients, the rate being
$  per week.

The expense for this class of aid has been :—

House of Providence, , 
City Hospital,  

Making atotal of , 

The item of medicine, in addition to that of
hospital treatment, to persons treated at home and
attended by the city physician for the year was
(including nursing),  

Making for the care of the sick total cost of 

CHILDREN.

Few cities in the state have as many children dependent on
the public for support as has the city of Holyoke.

Many children are left orphans, and many more become public charg es on account of their parents’ neglect to properly provide
for them, and many by being abandoned and left on the charity
of the public.

The amount expended for the care of pauper children is as
follows :—

Brightside Institution, $ 
Ingleside  Lo,  
Boarded in families,  

Making total of . 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
ALMSHOUSE.

In our last report we called attention to the fact that additions
had been made to the buildings, but were not at that time completed. These additions are still uncompleted, but by the progress
now being made they should be ready for occupancy by the first of
February,  .

The institution is also being equipped with modern heating
and ventilating system, which when completed will be all that
could be wished for in that respect. The Board of Public Works
very wisely decided to put in the buildings an electric light plant of
  lights for which the wires are now being put up and will also be
completed about the first of February. This will do away with the
present kerosene lamp, very dangerous system. We are also
pleased to report that the Board of Public Works completed separate building for laundry purposes and removed the machinery
from the basement of the main buildings, change that will be
appreciated by all.

We would again call attention to the need of painting the buildings. The wood-work on the outside needs painting very badly as
also the walls on the inside. Seven years’ use with but one coat of
whitewash must necessarily leave the walls in condition to need
repair and paint. We earnestly hope that this need will be attended
to as soon as possible.

In our last report we also called attention to the condition of
the grounds about the institution,and recommended that they be properly graded and fenced. Early in the year the board felt that this
work should be done, and at once; and as there had been no appropriation called for, and no provision made to do this work, the board,
with the consent of His Honor Mayor Smith, proded to do the
work under the direction of the City Engineer. The work was done
in April, May and June of this year at an expense of .
This is an expense that should not be borne by this department, but
under the circumstances, and in order to do this very important
work, we could do no different. This work enabled us to furnish
work to number of unemployed, and thereby saving some on outdoor relief. ‘There were other necessary permanent improvements
made by the board at an expense of .

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
, The total expense of the almshouse was. 
Receipts, .  
Net expense (including  for grading), 
Following is the receipts from all sources to the almshouse :—
Board of George Brown, . 
Sale of two horses,  
Doard of Bertha Crosby,  
Board of Mrs. John J. Shine,  
Farm produce, -  
Town of Ware (board of Patrick Riley), South Hadley, board of J. Moran,  
oo “e A. Bertrand,  
Total, , 
The following is detailed statement of expenses at almshouse :—

» @
 
SahESBR BRB EZ EB
| “BIOL §—§ OD we GB &— F&F oOo ne
| to!  S
Me
  ge  :
» ‘| “snNoaULl[aAD IY aar Ve mr g
m 
nN ———— Tk.
oe  
ee Fa IB) “a oo
| puu vasi ch a
lad HL
of  “snags |g
a) spaas os S
a PUB  (Q Iq z
 
ee ‘auoyqda[ay, Zee Fteet wa ai an
on fo Fee a
 
a aude eo es Foes ees tc oN S| eg
pas supaoug oe  a
WN WO pa Co re) moo z
  WUBPIUPREC] on no! oa x

nn ie: eS SSS
  SR ARS 
eI mn" se] ise) an) fs a)
*sa{ Ve Pe) :
Sie wins ARR RS ARR AERA AR EB
joe  fox]
a
. £$ £
on HP eaeea Fa le
. 
. eaqpipaw ZR  SRF SBA ES a
  ie
rr OC ——
‘ or oO Oo  ov  wd a
 “yaqune aa Sf EMSC SF oe
| -sSurr xnmwr- R* Ff  PUB OIVM PIB oe Nes eo x
a  #:
n S&S  siyeday  ma od 
: suyquuid Sy  
—  &
a on na; Sr?  i. '
 ‘QiNnyjuany |
| puw $n  AA wg  |
e) SPOON asnoT ”
i ep OS OT
i ae  tt
 ‘spoonkia OR Ss
( |
mm MO Rm gm em
 “woot RZR Se ESES RSS  )
a tk t- WO ws Ss Om *F DO 
(x) pus supyyolyD QQ Tr Se HA  oe |
SD WD OD OmD:—“‘‘‘—sésW”™SCSOSsC‘(CSCOS  anc ea a
— *OD UQO.L Ss oF Go  
op) hed |
"  ie Nel  
A 
.  Ja fo)
is i
— ee
  —
 SR EE SSSR ERR EE
- ly i] oe  Nn nn
— wonpuruay SRSESAS SLE
iz} ad  |
Qo eS Se SSS ETE
 Ss  ts
| ta RWS FS  H
‘warddng  SN  go ow |,
| puy valivvor) ss   .
hd  |
a a
i a.
|  aad
: £&  wm bh  |
woR Ses tcerezrs
S  m& AA ARR tC By. eB
t

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
The inmates are well cared for by Warden Henry S. Blake and
Matron Mrs. W. A. Judd. The general health of the inmates has
been very good, there being but very little sickness outside of the
chronic cases. Eleven deaths occurred at the institution during the
year, all being chronic cases.
Number of inmates December  
Number admitted during the year,  
Whole number during the year,  
Number discharged during the year,  
Number of deaths during the year,  
—  
Number remaining December  
Average number during the year,  
Average cost of each inmate per week, 
RECAPITULATION.
Outdoor poor, city, 
Insane outside almshouse,  
State,  
Cities and towns,  
Overseers of the poor,  
Almshouse,  
— —- 
Cr. ”
By amount charged to state, 
By amount charged to cities and towns,  
By visits of city physician, charged to
State, Qt. 
By visits of city physician, charged to
cities,  
By reimbursement from insane, ,

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
By amount refunded, 
Board at Almshouse,  
By cash received from farm produce, and
sale of horses,  
—— 
Net expense to city, 
Respectfully submitted,
| A. F. GINGRAS,
RICHARD GILDAY,
JAMES T. CUNNINGHAM,
. Overseers of the Poor.
December .

ASSESSORS’ REPORT.
Hortyoke, Mass., December .
To the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. .
GENTLEMEN :—The Board of Assessors of the city of Holyoke
respectfully beg leave to submit the following report for the year
 .
For the board,
JAMES J. DOWD,
Chairman of Assessors.
Appropriation, to. 
EXPENDITURES.
Permanent Assistant, 
Field work Assistants,  
Clerk,  
New Index to Maps and Records,  
Team hire in outside districts,  
, Expense incurred in Lyman Mills tax
case,  
Expense incurred in traveling to Boston and other cities,  
Books, stationery, postage and express,  
Printing street lists and sundry forms,  
Advertising lists, |
$ 
Balance of Appropriation unexpended,  
——— 

  ASSESSORS’ REPORT.
TAX WARRANTS.

Warrants for the assessment of taxes in the city of Holyoke
for the year were received by the Board of Assessors as
follows :—

A State warrant for the proportion of the city of Holyoke, of State tax of  as fixed by

) Chapter of the Acts of  
A county warrant for the proportion of the city of

Holyoke, of county tax of  
A city warrant for the tax of the city of Holyoke, for

city purposes,  
Aggregate of warrants committed to the Board of

Assessors, $ 

POLLS.

The polls recorded for assessment before August ,
included in the estimate that determined the rate of taxation for
the current year, were  .

Under the operation of the law providing for the supplementary assessment of omitted male persons determined by the
Registrars of Voters to be liable to assessment under the provisions
of Section of the Acts of  Chapter of the Acts of  ,
there were added to the list one hundred and twenty-seven polls
assessed,  .

VALUATION.

The valuation of the city as of May determined by
the Assessors August  th of that year, when the rate of taxation for
the year was fixed, was as follows :—

Value of land, , 
Value of buildings,  
Total valuation of real estate, 

ASSFSSORS’ REPORT.  
Valuation of personal property other than bank ,

stock separately assessed, 
Value of shares in national banks located in Holyoke and taxable locally,  

Total valuation, , 

There were no added values under the provisions of Section
  of Chapter of the Public Statutes as amended by Chapter
  of the Acts of  .

The total valuation of the city upon which taxes were assessed
for the year  when all assessments were made, was .

The valuation for for persunal property is increased in
addition to the amount given in foregoing table by the value
assessed by the Commonwealth upon shares of Massachusetts
corporations, the property of residents of Holyoke, .

The valuation is further increased for bank stock assessed at
the several rates of the places where banks are located, as the taxes
are paid to Holyoke on this class of property held by its citizens in
Massachusetts banks located outside of city, .

As the revenue from these two sources is always estimated
before the amount to be raised by taxation is d:termined, the
effect of the valuation of this property in reducing the rat: of
taxation is nearly the same as though its amount was included in .
the Assessors’ valuation assessed by them.

The increase in value of property over is as follows:—
Buildings, - 
Land, ;  
Personal estate, including banks,  

$ 

Property exempt from taxation :—
Educational, $ 
Benevolent and charitable,  
Houses of religious worship,  
$ 

  ASSESSORS’ REPORT.

The value of stocks in corporations and banks, together with
the value of exempted property, does (as the table denotes)
increase the total valuation of the city of Holyoke for the year
  to .

VALUATION OF THE CITY BY WARDS.
Real. Personal. Res. Banks.
Ward   H. F. N. B. ,  Hol. N. B.  
“   City N. B.  
“   Home N.B.   Park N. B.  
“   :
“ 
$ 
 
Total valuation, , 
STATISTICS.
Z   Ee OF Ef si f
F z
Zz Z
T t§$   Si 
+ ISI    ISt !
 

 
e 
@  
re :
f
zs:
 )
[ss etait
o-  
fo)  oe  vs 
Fr  ss s+  s
e ot  zs’:

o LE ain Gennee

ot zs :: ten 

nN  e) z?:: zy 

oo |» ct]  ss:

Sets ew we  ve  |

- Dg x) s: ce  

 is  -—  ... Sd '
et zi: st: a
sto" s:

fad Zarek SESAReE 

—  wo RIOD ese "ss eyes
 '
 WHA Sts  s:  c:
wt HO Fat ere 
{x ia? aoccix RS  zits
(  f} oe ros fexze siz:
 en  shel ie teu   had
 ome So  SERED  td
w  ara) fora $s
TEES QAS  Sh ERRES -:
BOSS SSer Soe SER RES  presse sgtpicaatcaes eenrgeraee
: ase RE SEE ESAs hk PSHRZAE
  TT

* ot  Bas en) peat) me
wo  Fan? RS'SSS ce FAS EEE
  ei nN an SSREZ iB BEEzE
  os  aa SHBCES was 
. on  ae nl am hea or +e ea
{xy S. OC AGRSHS ages  
Tax She? a) HERES a
LHS  me ASS re
fx, lan Nose  Bais |
Ines Eng  qGRS SESE AEE
 is on ie Rae  
] [A
  SSH  ESS escacesae ie BS RESIE
UY) ei oa  os Sea
iSe San  |
fod  as Auts AERA Tene Br
O se os SaAzsF BREE EERE
Sans  ZES  ok BSAEH
P  ar wees  HEAR ESR ARS
— (oo —e rest my  ae Co ef '
: ee
mo Saune EZ SR  REERSS
  pay His Dw SRASS Sint ERSBA
 oti omer
on DOE Man ASSS  oor yoo eS
we ovsé Eteer, coal
  a) aod Mon SEE  |
a  LZs se” ere |
 FER mise BAF --)
e RERES -—— SBS
C) so ree  aahasl as  SRS
— SLES BISE Se
- FESER Se  FE SES 
fx) ZaRGR Got mm orn SESSe  |
 ans jsae PERGRAZ BSnNZES aT) RRS *
ay is ZSae pererti   SR ES |
“an nad Bas BAIELAZ FADE  )
z Sa
: Zui LhEEZS tee w
  |e  scUCULARAE Lay
& OR  iasedegaee
ocs  ES  ASZEZER Sener se: SEER
 oun REE RE ERAS i
ie Se  
—,  ie RZES Kise ne SESE VD Gs cs
s o.  ERE  IrogS oe EOS Ris
ome be ro ea) ZEZ No  PRREEE ie eR
fad oi -EBSS see herertee ak
oo
— +r SRES SF ARES
somal awoaes rr] PSE mate
ot ERRE SSESR asUtS wD
x gat RKSS se) ne mm tres SSneE 
os ie ens areas BS Ss
Sa Sask nas RPERRS ca aes
iQ Yo  Sane Ris   -SS h
 SREZESZS BOs FARE
TT
Preers SU BERAE SES
. Boaeensen aphibt 
O  SAS Hz  seen s
- Sense  ise pr aD
bm  znte Seat GOS :
os   re econ
es  SARE ™
a  DE FAGRE
—e om was Yo) 
ry OC Oe ike sc Zoe oo
 AEDS AES: SeES 
C P  gee  cs)  ct
) sA evieasaeg Beeb aeRe
i!     gee ER ae
Zz. Ge aN HOT: so ZR EES: ses
| SESE
co? Sezee iES  on
 BRESERE od os ss
re) tS i- Toe  —
af DSS LA ce oO Sei ae
CokX AEREEE SesSss
a: LO seicareaedei: Zz
Sh  *O Sits me  aSG
ba cf  aan BETSES Ferree
o  S. pEECERESS EP SRES
 za Paes ana HSZHRE SAGE as
 ewe  falc acd se at eS wrote t- an fy fe
@- ae  wos InZESES DAT
 a” he ey  Seer oe  Sam aT.
 FF ER  Fa .— *
fy,  pigasesg d Baae SR EES
| sEnagi see: PoP be
AP GUE —
; -—— Peeserageeass Ae
.. tf F
| ead GESEE SF RHEE
area FESS rr Smit
be ELE tS oot a) 
| aicduiiueeg:
. t- AN BASES Sheets
 iN! MON ot SESS  Is C. Seas
& BANGS ot et oF reepreed att SS
ow AaAglss oF uSsZs SSERE KiSee PEZEER  Bao
i FREE SSSR ES tot ZEESIUE SS
ms ree pated FS EREESS oO ane:  ‘o ws  -
i *) ews Sue RS Ke Zor
 ais c- ra AS hed wow  aale ae -HSsesa il
| PACE i
| et   Wished SSERE fie
  eis BIEGSS -BEZELS t
- oF HSSSES ESSE!
  BEREGRESE Se
g$ Ff ao EEBEES PEEPLES
is  fs Pere tee
“ srs Ss ois
ES ZE FS EEETE AES (EEGSRe
PEPEPESS ER RESERE ERE RE
PPPS ETS  tere SE BEAS
- Seo CErer ae tc  
 ta Sa reus woe 
SEGCE TES He resis ees
LEB! t-x SAEESSEESE Bee yeSab  a
Zee arses THs LES z
FETE:  FBas .— Ps
FEET EES Seng lin
LESSEE SE: ma |!
EEERETEF|
ALAA Fez: '
a FESES *
pind SERS 
PPFEEE SE:

’
TREASURER’S ACCOUNTS
. HOLyokkg, January .

I hereby certify that have examined the books and accounts
of the Treasurer of the City of Holyoke for the fiscal year ending
November and have to report that find the cash book
correctly footed and the disbursements supported by approved
vouchers and official warrants.

The ledger is correctly footed, and have verified the Treasurer’s balance sheet for November which calls for :—
Cash on hand that date, 
Received since,  

———  

Paid since,  

Balance January .. 

Made up as follows :—

Park National Bank, 
Less outstanding checks,  
: 
Bank bills,  
Currency,  

\ ———— 

CHAS. T. PLIMPTON,
Auditor and Accountant.

CITY OF HOLYOKE,
JURY LIST
FOR  .

|

a
|

|

|

JURY LIST FOR  .
A
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Adams, Charles East street Wauregan
Afflick, John H. Clark street Foreman G. C. Gill
Ash, Matthew Elm street Doyle Printing Co.
Allen, James A. Maple street Crockery Store
Abbott, William H. Howard street Soap Mfr.
Alderman, Eugene C. Hampden st. Carpenter.
Arnold, John J. Pleasant street Papermaker
B
Belding, Clark E. Grover street Hadley Thread
Bagg, Edward P. Locust street Parsons Paper Co.
Blackmer, George West street Cigarmaker
Baker, Michael H. Linden street Plumber
Burley, Reuben Canal street Hadley Thread
Ball, Charles E. Pine street Druggist
Ballou, Alonzo N. Bowers street Merrick
Bowker, Henry, Bh street Livery Stable
Batchelor, Edward W. Mosher street Alpaca
Bunnell, William D. Suffolk street Printer
Bridges, Clarence A. West street Trolley Track Co.
Broderick, Hdward A. Lyman street Bridge Builder
Backus, Irwin C. Main street Riverside
Beaulieu, Louis T. Summer street Builder
Bertrand, Adolphe H. Main street Retired
Bronson, Isaac C. Summer street Carpenter

  JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Blake, Albert H., Jr. Canal street Printer
Borlen, Blaise Park street Springfield Prov.
Byrnes, Peter J. Sargeant street Linden
Ball, Francis W. Clark street Carpenter
Brown, Walter R. View street Whitmore Glazed
Batchelor, Frederick Chapin street Retired
Baxter, Hartley I. Chapin street Hol. W. Power Co.
Beebe, Albert A. Back street Manufacturer
Bennett, John W. Gates street Papermaker
Begley, Thomas E. Gates street Painter
Bower, William South street Wire Weaver
Bradshaw, George F. Willow street Papermaker
Bray, Frank Westfield road Farmer
Brooks, Archibald A. street Wire Weaver
Butcher, Samuel South street Insurance Agt.
Bretschneider, Max Summer street Clothier
Begley, Thomas J. High street St. Railway Co.
Blanchet, Alexander Union street Griswold
 Bonvouloir, Luc A. Front street P. Bonvouloir
Boyer, Frank Front street Lyman Mills
Byrnes, John J. Elm street M. F. Walsh
Baker, Michael Bh street Bricklayer
Brennan, Patrick H. Dwight street Tea Merchant
Backus, Edgar C. Maple street Merrick Thread
Bidwell, White P. Newton place Whiting
Bleasius, Michael Elm street Retired
Bosworth, George L. Dwight street Contractor
Boule, William H. Suffolk street Elite Millinery
Bresnahan, Thomas Pine street Laborer
Bullard, William H. Oak street Merchant
Burns, Richard S. Suffolk street Cigar Mfr.
Barney, David Newton street Machinist
Bentley, Robert M. Chestnut street Clerk
Bretherick, Alfred High street Mill Operative
Beaudro, William G. Maple street Pattern Maker
Bhing, Joseph F. Cabot street Molder

JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Babcock, William A. Pearl street Machinist
Ballard, Willis D. Pearl street Machinist
Bardwell, Joseph Taylor street Salesman
Barnes, James Lincoln street Ken.& S’'!l’n Mfg.Co.
Bigelow, James M. Pearl street Retired
Bock, Carl Elliott street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Bolt, John Fairfield ave. Wire Mfr.
Bradley, William F. Allyn street Painter
Brennan, Daniel P. Taylor street Mason
Buck, Frank L. Pearl street Painter
Burke, James J. Nonotuck st. Carpenter
C ,
Cheevers, Matthew Ely street Merrick
Connors, Michael J. I.yman street Electrician
Crandall, ‘Thomas L. Mosher street Merrick
Chase, Ernest G. Bowers street Paper Ruler
Crafts, Charles A. West street Hol. St. Ry. Co.
Cady, Osborn J. Race street Merrick
Chapman, Samuel S. Race street Cigar Store
Clune, John, Race street Lyman Mills
Crownsberry, James Main street Deane Steam Pump
Cunningham, Henry P. Cabot street Holyoke Envelope
Curley, Frank J. Main street Builder
Clayton, John J. Park street Holyoke Paper Co.
Chadbourne, Burt A. Washington av. Street Railway
Chapin, Chalmers Lawler street Retired
Clark, Elbert L. South street Clerk
Conway, Martin J. South street Furniture Sale sm
Callahan, Timothy F. Oliver street Bottler
Carpenter, Pierre High street Fruit Store
Cote, Louis High street A. Bessette
Croteau, Luke Fountain street Shooting Gallery
Casey, Bartholomew Elm street Blacksmith

  JURY LIST.

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Conway, Patrick J. Elm street Plumber
Curran, John J. Lyman street Real Estate Agent
Carlin, John M. High street Swift Bros.
Clynch, Walter J. Dwight street Wilbraham
Connor, Cornelius C. High street J. Cleary
Conway, Martin P. Dwight street Piano Dealer
Cronin, James J. Linden street Blank Book
Clancy, William B.  Elm street Printer
Connor, Thomas Pine street B. M. R. R. Co.
Curley, John J. Oak street Tailor
Cameron, Donald Worcester pl. Dyer
Campbell, ‘Thomas D. Sargeant street Insurance Agt.
Caney, Charles A. Chestnut street Holyoke Envelope
Carswell, Donald Commercial st. Buchanan Bolt
Cragie, William High street Machinist
Cameron, Archibald Maple street Beebe Holbrook
Childs, ‘Thomas  S. Maple street Shoe Dealer
Collings, Henry A. High street Photographer
Carmody, Thomas J. Pine street Plumber
Corser, Charles A. Essex street Real Estate Agent
Chase, William A. Linden street Coal Dealer
Cahill, Martin Highland av. Papermaker
Cobe, Max Walnut street Merchant
Cain, Arthur M.  Beacon avenue Carpenter
Curley, John F. Walnut street Wire Worker
Callahan, Michael Nonotuck st. Grain Dealer
Casey, James J. Nonotuck st. Carriage Mfr.
Chadwick, John Pearl street Manufacturer
Chase, Sanford H. Pearl street Roll Coverer
Coburn, Henry H. Pearl street Salesman
Connell, Jimes J. Nonotuck st. Wire Worker
Connor, Thomas Taylor street Plumber’s Store
Corbett, Robert B. Pearl street Papermaker
Cotter, William H. Pearl street Lithographer
Cullin, George F. Fairfield av. Butcher
Curran, William H. Beacon avenue Merchant

og

JURY LIST.  
D |
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

Deane, Edward Bridge street George C. Gill
Donahoe, Conelius J. Grover street Hadley
Duggan, Martin G. Bridge street Kennedy Sullivan
Delaney, George A. E. Dwight st. Valley
Dewey, Oscar A. Bowers street Deane Steam Pump
Dewey, Henry B. Main street Paper Mill
Donahoe, Edward Race street Smith White
Davitt, Thomas Bridge street Chemical
Dreikorn, Max O. Park street Baker
Dean, John Chapin street Mill Operative
Dean, Joseph Willow street Mill Operative
Dearden, Joseph Willow street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Donoghue, Michael J. Elm street St. Railway
Daviau, Edmond High street Shoe Store
Dickinson, Charles E. Front street Lyman Mills
Donohue, Patrick F. Maple street Grocer
Dougherty, Thomas F. G. High street Printer
Doody, James J. Maple street Mason
Doran, John C. Elm street Clerk of Com.
Doyle, John Hampden st. Wire Mill
Dickinson, John W. Chestnut st. Supt. Lyman Mills
Donnelly, Conelius M. Hampden st. Butcher
Demers, Louis Maple street Photographer
Dunn, James A. Essex street Reporter y
Duston, Charles W. Newton street Machinist
Dearden, John G. Maple street Bookkeeper
Delaney, Charles A. Chestnut st. Riverside
Dowd, Lawrence F. Sargeant street Asst. Truant Officer
Dowd, Michael J. Sargeant street Mason
Ducharme, Etienne N. Maple street Carpenter
Duncan, John Sargeant street Papermaker
Delaney, James E. Ouk street Contractor
Dickey, James F. Fairfield av. Grain Dealer
Delaney, William H. Lynwood av. Painter

  JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Dillon, John J. Dwight street Foreman
Doran, Gabriel Bh street Steam Fitter
Donnelly, Peter J. Dwight street Steam Fitter
Dunn, Michael Bh street Carriage Mfg.
Doyle, Cornelius J. Nonotuck st. Agent
Dwyer, James Hampden st. Blacksmith
Dyer, Charles Taylor street Butcher
E
Evans, Charles Grover street Hadley
Elliott, Robert Center street Piper
Ethridge, Allen W. Summer street Merrick’s
Eger, Paul C. Park street Papermaker
Ellis, Willard C. View street Foreman Paper Mill
Eagan, Michael J. Elm street Laborer
Evans, John H. Oak street Retired
F
Farrell, Jeremiah J. Canal street Hadley
Fitzsimmons, Andrew Ely street Clerk
Fales, Samuel V. Bowers street Nonotuck
Fleming, John Park street Coghlan Boiler Wks.
Fontaine, Joseph B. East street Baker
Farr, Dennie L. Washington av. Paymaster
Farr, Simeon View street Mill Operative
Finn, Thomas Maple street Hol. Water Works
Flynn, Joseph High street Laborer
Fitzgerald, John Lyman street Laborer
Fitzgerald, ‘Thomas I:lm street W. B. Whiting
Flynn, Thomas J. Lyman street Hol. W. Power Co.
Frissell, Glenville C. Locust street Baker
Farrell, Owen F. John street Alpaca
  eal

JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION,
Frink, Herbert J. Pine street Hol. Machine Co.
Francoeur, Samuel L. Dwight street Barber
Flood, Joseph T. Oak street Retired
Freeman, Peter Maple street Produce Dealer
Ferris, Edgar S. Dwight street Merrick Thread Co.
Flagg, William D. Chestnut street Broker
Fairbanks, Frank P. Walnut street Superintendent
Farr, Hoit F. Lincoln street Alpaca
Fay, Collamore T. Bh street Merchant
Flanders, Timothy B. Pleasant street Machinist
Feeney, Thomas Essex street Machinist
G
Goodrich, Charles H. Grover street Hadley
Godere, Leon West street Merchant
Gervais, Frederick Main street Stone Cutter
Gilmore, John R. Race street Laborer
Gorham, Irving E. Race street Parsons Paper
Gleason, Cornelius J. Race street Warp
Griswold, David C. Canal street Ct. River Paper Co.
Gates, Seymour E.  North’mpt’n st. Warehouseman
Gilmore, Charles F. South street Machinist
Goodyear, George L. Back street larmer
Griswold, William P. Washington av. Candy Mfr.
Gingras, Amedee F. High street Undertaker
Guerin, Eugene Lyman street Nonotuck
Gilday, Philip Hampden st. Parsons
Green, Patrick, Walnut street Lyman
Geran, Dennis F. Walnut street Clerk
Galarneau, George A. Maple street Real Estate
Goddu, Joseph K. High street Carpenter
Gammie, John Worcester place Beebe Holbrook
Glenn, Henry Bristol place —- Real Estate
Gorman, Dominick Commercial st. Alpaca

|
  JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Gifford, Stephen E. Taylor street Machinist
Guyott, Luke Hampshire st. Belt Shop
Gilligan, Michael Elm street Employed by City
Griffin, James Walnut street Grocer
H

Hayes, Simon F. Ely street Valley
Hillman, Herbert E. Canal street Albion
Hunter, Robert W. Canal street Hadley
Hood, William B. West street Clerk
Hennessey, John G. Main street Laborer
Hurlburt, Paul Park street Contractor
Hay, Alden M. Main street Holyoke Machine
Heinritz, Hermann East street Druggist
Herter, Hugo Bridge street Machinist
Huebler, Charles R. Park street Retired
Haney, William Back street Farmer
Hannum, Edwin A. Clark street Insurance Agent
Hein, Conrad T. South street Belt Shop
Hildreth, Richard North’mpt’n st. Retired
Hood, Douglas J. Lawler avenue Machinist |
Hood, John A. South street Pattern Maker
Humeston, Caleb J. Back street Bookkeeper :
Hunter, John Brown avenue’ Harness Maker
Hannafin, James J. I:lm street Lunchman |
Hobart, James P. Maple street Undertaker
Hurley, John J. Front street Steam Fitter |
Hickey, Patrick Linden street Blacksmith |
Halloran, Frank W. High street
Hammond, William C.  Chestnut street Organist ‘
Hitchcock, Charles Maple street W. Ely Son |
Holmes, Newton IF. Maple street Papermaker
Hudson, Joseph A. Bond street Mill Operative |
Hamilton, Henry Worcester place Molder

|

x

JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Hinchcliffe, Thomas Maple street Machinist
Hudson, Charles Commercial st. Merrick
Hafey, Jeremiah J. Beacon avenue Milk Peddler
Harobine, Benjamin Hampden st. Agent
Heywood, Francis D. Linden street Whitmore Mfg. Co.
Healey, Michael J. Easth’mpt’n rd. Farmer
Hodge, James L. Pine street Retired
Horrigan, William J. Allyn street Jeweler
Hughes, Levi Howard st. Foreman Merrick
Hulesh, Charles J. Pearl street Papermaker
I
Irvine, John West street Franklin
Innes, Robert D. Summer street G. R. Dickinson
Ives, Dwight H. Northampt’n st. Retired
Ingraham, Nathan D. Worcester place Inventor
J
Joyce, William A. Mosher street Mason
Jenks, William W. Back street Farmer
Johnson, Frank L. Avon place Blacksmith.
Johannis, Robert Bh street Merchant
Jopson, William H. Cabot street Linden
Johnson, Thomas Newton street Mill Operative
K
Keane, Martin Bridge street St. Railway
Keyes, William Summer street Crocker
Kennedy, Thomas J. Cabot street Teamster
Koegel, William Bridge street Hol. Paper Co.
Kloppfer, Franz Park street Park Keeper

  JURY LIST.

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Kilbride, Thomas F. Elm street Piper
Koehler, Paul H. South street Retired
Kirley, Thomas High street B. Holbrook
Kane, Thomas Pine street Mason
Kerin, Michael Lyman street Insurance Agent
Keane, Jeremiah J. Elm street Mason
Kirtland, Edwin L. Maple street Journalist
Killian, George F. Hampshire st. Skinner’s
Kane, John F. Hampden st. Mason
Knightly, John F. Fairfield ave. Slater
Keyes, John Bh street Papermaker

L
Leach, Thomas B. Mosher street Albion
Lynch, Bartholomew J. Ely street M. Callahan
Lyman, Warren M. West street Clerk
Labelle, Israel Main street Photographer
Lee, Dennis F. Main street Blacksmith
Levesque, J. Ernest Main street Printer
Lowcock, John Adams street Alpaca
Labrecque, Felix J. Papineau street Lunch Cart
Lee, William G. Laurel street Civil Engineer
Leining, Adam Brown avenue Bookkeeper
Leining, Fred Washington av. Bookkeeper
Lynds, George H. Harrison ave. Bookkeeper
Lamarche, Albert L. Walnut street Painter
Lynch, Patrick J. Lyman street Mason
Lacoste, Francis Union street Merrick
Lamay, Frank Union street Painter
Lynch, ‘Thomas J. Maple street Lynch Walsh
Lynch, Patrick M. Dwight street Architect
Landers, Dennis J. Dwight street Contractor
Jinehan, Jeremiah J. Dwight street Grocer
Lamb, James Commercial st. Alpaca

JURY LIST.  

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Lauckner, Gustave O. Sargeant street Clothier
Lathrop, Wells Maple street Undertaker
Livermore, Ozro J. Chestnut st. Furniture Dealer
Lyman, Charles P. Elm street Furniture Dealer
Lamb, James Hampden st. Papermaker
Longeway, John Pearl street Mason

M

May, William H. Mosher street City Foundry
Mears, Frank East street Valley
Matthewson, Everett D. West street Printer
Moore, Patrick J. Bowers street Whiting
Morris, David Center street Hadley
Muir, Thomas Center street Valley
Moritz, John Hamilton st. C. Ranger
Mills, John Bridge street Blanket
Marx, Henry J. Bridge street Machinist
Mackintosh, Charles E. North’mpt’n st. Manufacturer
Mahoney, Matthew Brown avenue Machinist
Mahoney, William, Jr. Brown avenue Grocer
Mansir, Newell C. Carlton street Pub. Guide
Martineau, Edward N. View street Oil Dealer
Moore, I.yman B. North’mpt’n st. Builder
Mortimore, William J. North’mpt’n st. Millwright
Muirhead, John South street Mill Operative
Murray, David, Jr. Chapin street Carpenter
Murray, William J. Chapin street Ice Dealer
Maley, Patrick Walnut street Hol. Water Works
Morrison, Michael Walnut street Mill Hand
Moynihan, Frank D. go Fountain street Painter
Meehan, Richard V. Clinton avenue Papermaker
Moriarty, Timothy F. Dwight street Butcher
Murray, Thomas F. O'Connor ave. Mgr. Empire Th’tre
Malcolm, James A. Newton street Blacksmith

  JURY LIST.

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Maxfield, Fred E. Maple street Bookkeeper
Macomber, Harvey Worcester place Teamster
Manning, Edward H. Cabot street Druggist
Moore, Philander, Fairheld ave. Retired
Merrill, Levi P. Cabot street Janitor
Montague, Isaac W. Oak street Insurance
Murray, John P. Maple street —‘ Printer
Merrick, Joseph S. Walnut street Lumber Dealer
Merrick, A. Judson Elm street Lumber Dealer
Mack, Thomas H. Elm street Coal Dealer
Morrill, James K. Lincoln street Druggist
Marra, John Sycamore street Contractor
McDonnell, Thomas Mosher street Norman
McCarthy, Charles E. Mosher street Blacksmith
McElwain, Reuben F. Dwight street Crocker |
McLean, Anthony Main street Shoe Dealer
McDermott, Thomas F. Park street Germania
McLean, Hugh, Jr. Race street Furniture Dealer
McCaffrey, Thomas Willow street  Wool Sorter
McIntyre, Matthew South street |§Papermaker
McComes, John Fountain street Massasoit
McGuire, Arthur Fountain street Barber
MclIntee, John J. Elm street Clerk
McCabe, Thomas F. Pleasant street Clerk
Mclean, ‘Thomas High street Shoe Clerk
McQuaid, Samuel Dwight street Manufacturer
McAllister, Steele High street Riverside
McDonald, Donald  High street Jolly Bros.
McCauley, John L. Cabot street Stationer
McDonald, Robert Elm street Plumber
McKimmie, John L. Maple street Merrick
McDonnell, John T. F.  Oak street Paper Ruler
McKenna, Michael Dwight street Janitor
McCorkindale, Edward Bh street Papermaker
McFaul, John Dwight street Carpenter
McNabb, William Locust street Papermaker

ee |

JURY LIST.  
N
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Nicholas, Warren Lyman street Mason
Nobles, Frederick Main street Boston Maine
Newmann, Edward J. Bridge street Machinist
Neumann, Karl A. H. Park street Cigarmaker
Naylor, John Maple street Alpaca
Norton, Henry B. North’mpt’n st. Farmer
Norton, Edward G. Pine street Carriage Trimmer
Nugent, Richard Pine street Dry Goods
O
O'Neill, Michael East street Mason
O'Rourke, Patrick W. Main street Collector
Oidershaw, Alvah Laurel street Barber
O'Brien, Daniel J. Dwight street Clerk
O'Connell, Daniel F. Dwight street Whiting Paper
O’Connell, James H. Linden street Real Estate Agent
Oberlander, Edmund Newton street Lyman Mills
O’Neill, Frank F. High street Merchant
O’Brien, William J. Linden street Pattern Maker
O’Reilly, Patrick T. Fairfield ave. Dentist
O'Neill, John S. Sargeant street Merchant
O’ Keefe, Thomas J. Nonotuck st. Painter
P
Payne, Albert Canal street Albion
Perkins, Frederick L. Bowers street Mackintcsh
Pratt, Henry West street Albion
Perry, Charles J. Race street Merrick
Peterson, Henry H. Summer street Linden
Porter, John S, Bridge street Hol. Paper Co.
Paton, Peter Main street Machinist

  JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

Prew, John J. Main street Builder

Perry, George S. Chapin street Paymaster

Powers, Richard W., Lyman street Clerk

Prew, George J. Maple street Clothier

Pier, Orris B. Essex street Hol. W. Power Co.

Potvin, Gilbert Maple street Builder

Prescott, Joseph P. Suffolk street Paper Mfr.

Parsons, George W. Chestnut street Shipping Clerk

Pelott, Frank Maple street Barber

Perry, Albert H. Worcester place Hol. St. Ry. Co.

Pickup, Jeremiah Pine street Overseer

Pickup, George E. Hampden st. Alpaca

Parfitt, William J. St. Jerome ave. Painter

Proulx, Daniel Walnut street Real Estate.

Q

Quigley, Daniel J. Bowers street Water Power

Quirk, Jeremiah W. Pleasant st. Tea Merchant

Quinn, John Walnut street Plasterer

R

Rhodes, Gilbert W. Summer street Machinist

Robinson, Wilbur A. West street Smith White

Reese, Anthony gi Race street Chadwick Plush

Roberts, Clovis Main street Retired

Reed, John P. Clark street Papermaker

Richardson, John F. North’ton st. Farmer

Rider, Claudius W. South street Manufacturer

Rogers, Justin O. street St. Railway

Reardon, Dennis J. ILyman street Alpaca

Ryan, Thomas Maple street Deane Steam Pump

Riley, John Jf. Hampden st. Mason

Riley, Philip Maple street Mason

|

JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUAATION.

Regan, Nicholas S. Clinton av. Gaugeman

Rigali, Joseph Dwight street Clerk

Rohan, John Hampden st. Mason

Reid, David Cabot street Spinner

Ranlet, Robert Chestnut st. Holyoke W. P. Co.
Rivers, Frank A. High street Contractor

Rand, A. Judson Bh street Jeweler

Richards, George W. Oak street Contractor

Ross, William J. Walnut street Blacksmith

Ryan, John D. Locust street Editor

S

Scannell, Lawrence Ely street Glazed Paper Co.
Sears, Thomas G. Ely street Lyman Mills
Spafford, Henry H. Canal street Holyoke St. Ry. Co.
Squires, Andrew G. Canal street Hadley

Sullivan, Jeremiah J. East street Kennedy Sullivan
Strain, William H. Bowers street Whiting

Sullivan, Walter J. West street Insurance

Stebbins, Henry W. Park street Clerk

Stratton, Henry J. W. Canal street Blanket

Sughrue, Thomas Bridge street Merrick

Still, Arthur J. Main street Merrick

Sutcliffe, Samuel Main street Farr Alpaca
Scanlon, Edward Bridge street Laborer

Sheehan, Dennis Bridge street Parsons

Savoy, George Main street Bookkeeper
Stevenson, Robert Commercial st. Machinist
Sussenguth, Henry, Jr. Main street Whitmore Paper
Spamer, George T. Brown avenue Coburn Trolley ’k.
Slaton, Simeon B. Brown avenue Papermaker

Smith, Enos J). Brown avenue’ Papermaker

Smith, George E. Brown avenue’ [Loom Fixer

Steele, Frederick C. South street Provision Dealer

  JURY LIST.

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Stimpson, Charles E. street Supt. Hol. Envelope
Story, James  Hampden st. Hol. Machine Co.
Sheehan, Daniel Fountain st. Deane Steam Pump
Sweeney, James P. Elm street Saw Mill

‘Shea, John F. Pleasant st. Contractor
Sullivan, Jeremiah F. Dwight street Butcher
Shea, Michael F. Appleton st. Park Keeper
Sheehan, John Newton place Beebe Holbrook
Smiddy, John Bh street Paper Mill
Swiney, Merrill A. Oak street Traveling Salesman
Sargent, Robert D. Essex street Restaurant
Schuster, Christian F. Maple street Bookkeeper
Sears, Frank &. Elm street Whiting Paper Co.
Shumway, Austin L. Maple street Real Estate
Skinner, Joseph A. Elm street Manufacturer
Stratton, John H. High street Carpenter
Street, Franklin M. Chestnut st. Paper Dealer
Sanderson, George W. Maple street Loom Fixer
Shaw, Edward Maple street Dyer
Stone, Frederick H. Maple street Holyoke W. P. Co.
Sickman, Albert F. Lincoln street Engineer
Sinclair, Alexander Pearl street Merrick
sinclair, James W. Nonotuck st. Paper Manufacturer
Squier, James Allyn street Salesman
Streeter, Philander A. North’ton st. Millwright
Sullivan, Daniel P. Parker street Retired
Scolley, Michael W. Essex street Machinist
Sullivan, Jeremiah A. Pine street Retired

T
. Thompson, James Lyman street Alpaca

Tiedmann, Gustav E. Summer st. Clerk
Taylor, Charles L. Race street Hol. Machine Shop
VYiedman, Marcus H. Bridge street Grocer

JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

‘Taylor, John J. Summer street Clerk

‘Thayer, Henry L. South street Paper Ruler
‘Trowbridge, Luther P. Laurel street Builder
‘Thomas, Hormidas Front street J. Hebert
Toole, Charles J. Newton street Riverside
Toomey, Dennis J. Elm street Contractor
Trainer, Richard Sargeant street Jolly Bros.
Toole, James W. Elm street Papermaker
Tucker, John Pine street Ken.& S'Il’n Mfg.Co.
Tyner, George N. Linden street Manufacturer
Taber, Frank L. Taylor street Jeweler
Thomas, Gilbert W. Chapin avenue Carpenter
Teahan, Michael J. Nonotuck street Retired®

V
Vogel, William H. Ely street Valley
VanValkenburg, Chas. E. Newton street Painter
W

‘Walker, Jefferson Summer street Nonotuck
Welch, Edward D. Summer street

Whalen, Edward J. Race street Blacksmith
Winklemann, Richard C. Park street Druggist
Williams, Seth  Canal street —Riverside
Waterman, Frank T. Main street H. W. R. R.
Weighton, Arthur P. Allan street Bookkeeper
Whitmore, James B. Cherry street Merchant
Williams, Henry D. Northampton st. Holyoke Paper
Wilms, Ernest A. Locust st. Bookkeeper
Winchester, Samuel B. Laurel street Hol. Water Power
Winkler, Henry  Washington av. Supt. Streets
Wood, Thomas H. Charles street Bookkeeper

  JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Warren, Maurice F. Walnut street Foreman City
White, Henry F. Lyman street Fenton Dunn
Waters, Owen Bh street Merrick Thread |
White, Adam Pine street Fenton Dunn
Wrinkle, Lawrence E. Pine street Clothing Clerk ,
White, John J. Bh street Box Shop
Webber, Frederick S. Essex street Manufacturer
White, Edward N. Chestnut street Paper Dealer
Wooller, James Appleton street Dyer
Wheelden, Charles F. Hampshire st. Grocer
Whitcomb, Warren S. Locust street Carpenter |
Whiting, Edward G. Oak street W. B. Whiting Co.
Wood, Mar Oak street Real Estate |
Wylie, James H. Locust street Retired |
Walker, John Allyn street Hol. Water Works
Y |
Young, Don Willow street Alpaca ,
Young, David H. High street Bookkeeper |
|
dl

CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Grover.  —John O’Donnell.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —-Aug. Stursberg.  —]. F. Allyn.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —Curtis Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —G. W. Burditt, C. B. Harris, S. F. Stebbins.
Ward  —Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew Walsh.
Ward  —W. D. Higgings, H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, John O’Connell, J. A. Sullivan.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —R. M. Fairfield, H. A. Pratt, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider. 
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B.C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Grover. —Edw. O’Connor.
 -——H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Matthew Walsh.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —John Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward z—C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —Richard Kilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler.
Ward  —S. J. Donahue, Peter McKeon, E. A. Newton.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —Horace Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Ruddy.  -— Maurice Lynch.
 —C. B. Harris. —C. H. Heywood.
 —H. Springborn.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —S. J. Donoghue. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, G. H. Smith, E. Whitaker.
Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J. S. Webber.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’Donnell.
Ward  F. Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M. Manning.
Ward  —A. D. Barker, J. kX. Delaney, J. H. Newton.
Ward  —H. C. Ewing, S. T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford (deceased), J. R. Howes.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, R. P. CRaFTs.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —M. J. Teahan.  —D. H. Donoghue.
 —G. H. Smith.  —C. H. Heywood.
H. Springborn.*  —G. P. Ellison.
 A. Stursberg.
 —S. J. Donoghue. 
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. D. Colson.
Ward  —John Ford, Richard Patte, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Michael Lynch, M. M. Mitivier.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sullivan.
Ward  —E. W. Chapin, E. A. Ramsay, Porter Underwood.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
. Clerk—-C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Resigned


CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WiLLiAM WHITING.
ALDERMEN.
i—T. S. Grover.  —C. D. Colson.
 C. B. Harris.*  —D. E. Sullivan.
G. H. Smith.  —William Skinner.
 A. Stursberg.t  —G. P. Ellison.
  James Stafford. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN,
President, F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. E. Syms.
Ward  —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaac ‘Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, E. F. Sullivan.
Ward  —James P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte Marie.
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, E. O’Connor, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Henry C. Cady, J. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Died March ftResigned.

|
  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
—-—- |
Mayor, WiLvtiaM WHITING. |
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Ruddy.  —D. E. Sullivan.
 —F. R. Norton.  —William Skinner.
 —Henry Winkler.  —Wnm. S. Perkins.
 —Chas. D. Colson. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John O’ Donnell.
Ward  —G. C. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D. Walsh.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin P. Goodall.
Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.
Ward  —Victor Guyott, Peter McKeon, TI. J. Ryan.
Ward  —Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O'Donnell.
Ward  —H. C. Cady, J. S. Mcllwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden W.
Prentiss.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—James R. Howes.
 *

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WitiiaM Ruppy.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —John D. Walsh.  —John O’Donnell.
 —F. R. Norton.  —Chas. A. Corser.
 —Henry Windler.  —Wna. S. Perkins.
 —James P. Casey. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James Greeley.
Ward  —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger.
Ward z—John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W. Maher.
Ward  —John L. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John McDonald.
Ward  —Peter Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy J.
Ryan.
Ward  Michael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy Haley.
Ward  —Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A.
Whiting.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John B.
Munn.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet. |
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

)
  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, F. P. GOoDALL.
| ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger.  —D. J. Landers.
 —Fred Morrison. —E. A. Whiting.
 —P. J. Sheridan.  —R. Winchester.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMOM COUNCILMEN.
President, Hervey K. Hawes.
Ward  —Michael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel S. Chapman.
Ward  —Royal C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller, Dwight  .
Judd.
Ward  —Herbert Hicks, Lyman F. Thorpe, Charles R. Huebler.
Ward  —George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E. Herbert.
Ward  —-James S. Lee, John F. Shea, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H. Smith.
Ward  —Charles C. Hastings, Lyman B. Moore, John B. Munn.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City ‘Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.
-*

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  :
Mayor, RosweEtL P. CRaF's.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  —Wnm. A. Chase.
 —C. R. Huebler.  —W. T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney. ,
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Amos Andrews.
Ward  —William Brennan, James Spillane, William H. Jess.
Ward  —E. R. Pierce, Joseph Beauchemin, Geo. W. Richards.
Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. Driscoll, W. E.  Keefe.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, Thomas Pendergast, Michael O’ Keefe.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, H. H. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk—J. F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, RosweE.vi P. Crafts.
ALDERMEN.
WARD, WARD.
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.
 —JIsaac Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —John T. Lynch.  —W. T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —William H. Jess, John M. Sheridan, M. C. Browne.
Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, Frank S. Lynch, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sullivan.
Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, D. H. Ives, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk— Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.
i

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY. .
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —James Greeley.  —E. O'Connor.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  —Elias P. Ford.
 —John T. Lynch.  --C. C. Hastings.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin. ,
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue. |
Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey. |
Ward  —George W. Richards, Didace Sainte Marie, Thomas
H. Sears.
Ward  --John Lowcock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.
Ward  --William Sullivan,* Matthew Doherty, Thomas O’ Donnell, Amede F. Gingras.
Ward  —-Roger P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody, Michael
Manning.
Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli I. Brockett, John J. Reardon.
Ward  —Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M. Gilmore.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Died November ,

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
. Mayor, JaMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Reardon.  —R. P. Donoghue.
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Eli I. Brockett.
 —J. K. McCarthy.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.

Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G. McCarthy. |

Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F. Doyle.

Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F. Canavan. |

Ward  —Thomas O’Donnell, P. F. Carmody, Matthew Doherty.

Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas J. Fitzgerald.

Ward  —-Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting, John L. Burlinggame.

Ward  --John K. Judd, S. B. Allyn, S. M. Gilmore,* George
W. Doane.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—M. J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—E. L. Munn. 

Messenger— William T. Walsh.
* Resigned.

mt

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O'Connor.
ALDERMEN.
Wan. WARD.
 —J. J. Sheridan.  —R. P. Donoghue.
z —Francis J. Curley.  —Wm. E. Syms.
 —James J. Curran.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
‘COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John K. Judd.

Ward  —James C. Keough, Wm. A. Casey, Jeremiah G.
McCarthy.

Ward  —James H. Fitzsimmons, Edward Donahue, James W.
Toole.

Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J.
Westphal.

Ward  —James H. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning, Matthew
Doherty.

Ward  —James F. Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F. Greaney.

Ward  .—Andrew Buchanan, Charles H. Whiting, Charles L.
Newcomb.

Ward  —John K. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M. Cain.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—M. J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Oscar Ely.

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CI OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
‘
. Mayor, James J. O’ConNoR.
‘ ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William H. Jess.  —James F. Cleary.
 —James W. Toole.  —Wm. E. Syms.
 —Henry Winkler.  —John Hildreth.
 —--John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James C. Keough.
Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholomew
J. Lynch.
Ward  —Edward Donahue, Tho. J. Gibson, Nazaire Beliveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bleumer.
Ward  —Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis S. Paquette.
Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.
Ward  —Charles L. Newcomb, Henry E. McElwain, JSanford Webber.
Ward  —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Richard G.
Kilduff.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Edwin LL. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
— a

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 --L. F. Hayward, Jr.  —H. E. McElwain.
 —J. W. Toole.  —C. L. Newcomb.
 H. Winkler.*  —John Hildreth.
  M. Manning.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Michael J. Lavelle. |
Ward  —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John Blasius.
Ward  —‘Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Beliveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C. Kelly.
Ward  —John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis
Herbert.
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D. Perkins.
Ward  —Chas. L. Allyn, Lucius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.
Ward  —George L. Thorpe, John Longeway, Jr., George V.
Osgood.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk— Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer— Edwin I.. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigned June  .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. .
 —John C. Sullivan.  ——Richard Shea.
 —wWilliam P. Buckley.  —Dennie L. Farr.
 ——George Spamer.  --E. L. Squier.
 --Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, J. J. Callanan.

Ward  —John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen.

Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J. Kennedy.

Ward  —James F. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J. Taylor.

Ward  —Patrick A. Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene
Shea.

Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W. Doran.

Ward  —Lucius Ely, C. L. Allen, James L. Davis.

Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George VOsgood.

Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.

City Clerk——Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Edward L. Munn.

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

, I
———

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD, WARD.
 —M. P. Conway.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  —C. D. Colson.
 —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
 —N. J. Baker. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas Connor.

Ward  —William Brockway, Joseph A. Peltier, Maurice J.
Sullivan,

Ward  —Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C. O’ Leary.

Ward  —Herman Heinritz, John J. Vaylor, Onesime Viens.

Ward  —Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene Shea.

Ward  —Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles McCollister.

Ward  —Lucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Mederic J. Laporte.

Ward  —Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Frederick C.
Steele.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —M. P. Conway.  —J. J. Callanan.
 —T. ]. Kennedy.  —-J. P. Prescott.
 —Michael Connor.  —F. C. Steele.
 --R. P. Donoghue. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.

, President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway, John H. Ryan, Maurice J. Sullivan. |
Ward  —John Black, Arthur B. C. DeLaunay, Cornelius

O'Leary.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Albert C. Renner.
Ward  —Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene Shea. ,
Ward  —John E. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel JO’Connell. |
Ward  —Mederic J. Laporte, Stephen E. Gifford, John B.
Miller.
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles McCollister, Henry D.
Williams.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. :
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Ilennie L. Farr. |
Messenger—William ‘T. Walsh.
—  

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Haney.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —Antoine Marcotte.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —Patrick W, Shea. Clerk, T. ID. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Henry D. Williams.
Ward  —Joseph Hebert, Henry L. Mohan, John H. Ryan.
Ward  —John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Paul Schubach.
Ward  —Frank O. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P. Sullivan.
Ward  —William L. Bishop, Patrick H. Brennan, William B,
Miles.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, George E. Pickup, Frank C.
Webber.
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. McCollister, Henry
D. Williams.
Clerk—J ohn F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger—William T. Walsh. |

  CITY OFFICERS. —
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, DENNIE L. Farr.
ALDERMEN.
President, MICHAEL CONNORS.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Haney.  —J. J. Callanan.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —M. J. Laporte.
 Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 —T. J. Dillon. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.

Ward  —Patrick Gear, Joseph Hebert, David H. Toole.

Ward  —Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril  |
Labrecque.

Ward  -—Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest R.
Tauscher.

Ward  —Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O'Connor, Daniel P.
Sullivan.

Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J. Linehan.

Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, John Naylor, Frank C. Webber.

Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M.
Hartzell.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

 th

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, MarcienE H. WHITCOMB.
ALDERMEN.
President, Rurus B. HoLMEs.
WARD. WARD.
 —T. J. Lynch.  —R. S. Burns.
 -—F. St. Martin.  -—James A. Allyn.
 —M. Connor.  —R. B. Holmes.
 —P. W. Shea.  Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor. |
Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole,* John Daly, James
Wall.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H.Prendiville. |
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest R.
Tauscher.
Ward  —Frank Fitzgerald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyme S.
Menard.
Ward —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J. Linehan.
Ward  —KElbert Goss, Frederick N. Ricker, Edward N. White.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M. Hartzell.
Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigaed.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  s.
Mayor, Henry A. CHASE.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  Richard S. Burns.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —John Wall.
 —Richard H. Dietz.  —Geo. H. Lynds.
 —Thomas J. Lynch.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.

Ward  —Edw. D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis O'Leary.

Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendiville.

Ward  —John H. Donoghue, Victor S. Laplante, William J.
Mahoney.

Ward  —John J. McIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F. Sullivan.

Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.

Linehan.

Ward  —Edwin M. Chase, Elbert Goss, Caleb J. Humeston.

Ward  —Conrad V. Hein, Charles P. Randall, William O.
White.

Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.

City Clerk —Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer-—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William JT. Walsh.

 a

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
| Mayor, JAMES J. CuRRAN.
ALDERMEN. |
President, Timothy J. Lynch.
WAKD, WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —FElbert Goss.
 —Adam Leining.  —Frank Feather.
 —Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
Presiaent, Patrick H. Prendiville.

Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O'Leary.

Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr., Henry P. Cunningham, Patrick H.
Prendiville.

Ward  —John H. Connor, William J. Mahoney, Patrick W.
O’Rourke.

Ward  —William J. Dillon, John J. McIntee, John J. Riley.

Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, Edward J. Kenney, Wm. O’Connell.

Ward  —William D. Bunnell, Thomas H. Kearney, Henry
Reed.

Ward  -James Collingwood, Charles Randall, Homer J.
Stratton.

Clerk--John P. McTigue.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvculoir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS. .
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Georce H. Situ.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS). .
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Salime J. Benoit. William J. Ryan.
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George A. Savoy.
Morris Hicks. James H. Staples.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Frank Feather.  —Charles P. Randall.
 —Patrick J. O’Connor.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CN aa—

vigtized ty GOORle a

;

a .
e
Ld
e
‘
o
.
.

.
e .
.
‘
. 


ee
,  
y
. he
S/o |
a
va Ne
- ——  |



