Digitized by Google

OF THE
OF
HOLYOKE, MASS.
‘N
FOR THE
YEAR  .
KEES,
[SCL gS
ee, See KN
ae fee
eI MORE LY
linge OOS
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING Co.
 .

Digitized by Google

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
OFFICE OF CiTy TREASURER,
Ho.yokeE, Mass., December ,

To the Honorable, the Mayor and Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN In compliance with the city ordinances, have
the honor of presenting to you the following report for the fiscal
year ending December :

RECEIPTS.

The amounts received from various sources were credited to
sundry accounts, as follows :

To Board of Health,  
City property, oo.  
City Hall fund,  
Contingent. to.  
Corporation tax,  
Fire Department, repairs and contingent,  
Highways and Bridges,  
High school furnishing,  
Interest, .  
Interest on taxes,  ..  
Interest on taxes,   
Interest on taxes,   
Interest on taxes,   
Interest on taxes,   
Licenses,  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.

Loans, temporary,  
Loans, ten years,  
National bank tax,  
Pauper Department,  €
" Parks, .  
Police, ;  
Police, contingent,  
Premium on bonds,  
Street watering,  
Salaries, ,  
Sinking Fund Comm.,  
Schools, ,  
Sewers and drains,  
Sewer assessment,   
Sewer assessment,   
Sewer assessment,   
Sewer assessment,   
} Sewer assessment No.  Co,  
Brooks and O’Connor avenues,  
E., O. S. S. assessment,  
Sidewalks,  
Sidewalk assessment,  ..  
Sidewalk assessment,  ..  
| Sidewalk assessment, —..  
Curbing,   
State and military aid,  

Taxes,  .  
Taxes,  .  
Taxes,  .  
Taxes,  .  
Taxes,  .  
Bondsmen and Ellis,  
Whiting Street tund,  
$ 
Balance on hand December  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
EXPENDITURES.

The amounts disbursed and charged to sundry accounts are as
follows :
Assessors’ department,   ,
Board of Health,  
County tax, .  
City engineering,  
City property,   )
City hall fund,  
Contingent, .  
Contingent Board of Public Works,  
Contingent police,  
Fuel and street lights,  
Fire department, hose,  
Fire department, repairs and contingent,  
Fire department, members,   |
Fire department, salaries,  
Highways and bridges,  
High school and site,  
High school furnishing,  
Interest, .  
Interest, ,  
Loans, temporary,  
Loans, year,   )
Loans, years,  
Loans, notes,  
License, one-fourth to State Treasurer, |
Lyman Mills case,  
Municipal Lighting case,  
Military and State aid, 
National Bank tax,  
Overlayings,  
Parks, .  
Pauper. .  
Police, .  
Public Library,  
State tax, ,  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Sinking Fund Comm. , 
Schools, . |
Sidewalks, .  
Sidewalks,  .  
Sewers and drains, . 
Street watering,  
Salaries, toh.  
Soldiers’ relief,  
Taxes,  .  
Taxes,  .  
Whiting Street fund,  
Balance on hand December 
* 
STATEMENT BONDS PAYABLE, CONSTITUTING THE
| GROSS DEBT.
  years, per cent, municipal bond, due October  ,
 of.   years, per cent, water bonds, due July  
IO years, per cent, municipal bonds for general
 purposes, due July  
IO years, per cent, municipal bonds for general
purposes, due April  —..  
IO years, per cent, municipal bonds for general |
| purposes, due July  
IO years, per cent, municipal bonds, due June  ,
 .  
IO years, per cent, municipal bonds, due December
 years, per cent, municipal bonds, due September
I,  .  
IO years, per cent, municipal bonds for general
purposes, due March  
TO years, per cent municipal bonds, due July  

. e
REPORT OF CITY TREASURER. years, per cent, refunding bonds, issued for R. ’
R. stock, due October   years, per cent, Holyoke and South Hadley
bridge bonds, due September   years, per cent, sewer bonds, due May ‘
  years, per cent, refunding bonds, issued for R.
R. stock, due July | years, per cent, sewer bonds, due October   years, per cent, Holyoke and Willimansett
bridge bonds, due June   years, per cent, school bonds, due June years, per cent, school bonds, due July years, per cent, school bonds, due March  years, per cent, water bonds, due January  ,
 ;  
Total funded debt,  
, SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE.
Valued by the Bourd of Assessors in  .
SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND LAND.
Dwight and East street school, . 
Dwight and Bridge street school,  
Lyman street school,.  
West street school,  
Park street school,  
Hamilton street school,  
Sargeant street school,  
Springdale school,   ;
South street school,  
| Carlton street school,  
Ingleside school, we  
West Holyoke school,  
Back street school,  
North Chestnut street school,  
School street school,  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Appleton street school,   
South Chestnut street school,  
New High school,  
Nonotuck street school,  
Elm street school,  
$ 
ENGINE HOUSES AND LAND.
Mount Tom engine house, . 
Engine house, Main street,  
South street engine house,  
Emerald engine house,  
High street engine house,  
Hampden street engine house,  
Springdale engine house,  
$  
MISCELLANEOUS.

'  Almshouse and farm, ,  |
Elmwood sewer Jand,  
Gravel pit, .  
City Hall, .  
City yards and buildings,  
Pest-house and farm,  

,  

PARKS.

Canonchet park, $ 
Coghlan park,  
Hamilton park,  
Germania park,  
Prospect park,  
Hampden park,  
Ewing park, ,  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
Ranger park,   
Dingle park, . 
Total value of real estate,  
Total value of land,  
Total value of buildings,  
——-—— 
BALANCE SHEET, NOVEMBER .
Dr.
Holyoke Water Works, . 
Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Stock,  
Cash, ,  
Sinking Fund Commission,  
Sinking Fund Commission Water Bond,  
Real Estate,  
J. C. Keough, taxes,   
J. C. Keough, taxes,   
J. C. Keough, taxes,   
Thomas F. McCabe, tax,   
Thomas F. McCabe, tax,  ..  
J.C. Keough, sidewalk,   
J. C. Keough, sidewalk,   
Sewer Assessment, No.   
' Sewer Assessment, No.   
* 
BALANCE SHEET, NOVEMBER .
. Cr.
Bills payable, temporary loans, —.  
Bills payable, city debt,  
Bills payable, city debt (exempted loans), I, 
Sinking fund, city debt,  
Sinking fund, city debt (exempted),  
Sinking fund, water bonds,  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Whiting Street fund, oo, 
City of Holyoke,  
Thomas F. Downing, taxes,   
Thomas F. Downing, taxes,   
Thomas F. Downing, taxes,  ,,.  
High school,  
Bondsmen and Ellis,  
Sidewalks,   
Sidewalks,  .  
Sewer assessments,  
Elmwood, O. S. S. assessments,  
Almshouse addition,  
Overlayings,  
Non-resident bank tax,  
Corporation tax,  
‘City Hallfund, le  
Highways and bridges,  
Municipal Lighting case,  
Lyman Mills case,  
Interest, .  
Respectfully submitted,
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,

City Treasurer.

HotyokeE, Mass., December .
I hereby certify that have examined the accounts of the
Treasurer of the City of Holyoke for the year ending November  ,
 and find same to be correct. have verified the balance
sheet of December showing cash on hand at that date

amounting to .
FREDERICK S. FULLER,
Public Accountant.

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASS.
FOR THE YEAR  |
TO HIS HONOR, THE MAYOR, AND THE HONORABLE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
: Sieg ey
  HOLYOKE, MASS:: ;

Digitized by Google

Established January by his Honor, the Mayor, under
the provisions of Title Six, Section Thirty-four, of an Act to Revise
the Charter of the City of Holyoke.

Organized SJunuary .
PRESENT ORGANIZATION, APPOINTED BY THE MAYOR.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires February,  
Orren D. Allyn, Term expires February,  
Gilbert Potvin, Jr., Term expires February,  
| CLERK.
James L. Tighe, City Engineer, Term expires February,  
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Oscar C. Ferry elected January by the Board of Public
- Works, under civil service.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR WORK.
Henry Winkler, Superintendent elected annually by the Board of
Public Works. Term expires March .
FOREMAN.
William Rooney, first foreman; appointed by Superintendent
of Streets, under civil service rules.
Maurice F. Warren, second foreman; elected by Board of Public
Works, March under civil service rules.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS. .
Fred H. Gilpatrick, term expires February,  appointed by
the Mayor.
LAMPLIGHTER. .
Peter J. Kingsley, elected annually by the Board of Public Works,
term expires March .
ORGANIZATION FOR FISCAL YEAR,  .
JAMES H. NEWTON, Chairman.
MICHAEL F. WALSH.
WILLIAM B. REID.
CLERK. ,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK, City Engineer.
ASSISTANT CLERK.
OSCAR C. FERRY. |
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR WORK.
HENRY WINKLER.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
F. H. GILPATRICK.
ORGANIZATION FOR FiscaL YEAR,  .
JAMES H. NEWTON, Chairman, resigned December .
MICHAEL F. WALSH,  elected January .
WILLIAM B. REID, term expired February .
ORREN D. ALLYN, appointed January .
GILBERT POTVIN, JR., appointed February .

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  )
CLERK.
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK, City Engineer.
ASSISTANT CLERK.

OSCAR C. FERRY.

SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR WORK.
HENRY WINKLER.

INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

F. H. GILPATRICK.

DEPARTMENT ACCOUNTS.

The total expenditures in the departments under the control of
this Board for the fiscal year were which, deducted
from the total appropriations, receipts and transfers leavesa balance
to the credit of the departments of  .

A statement of the accounts follows:

AppropriaDEPARTMENTS. tions, Re- Transfers Expendi- Balances Overceipts and from tures. pended draft.
Transfers. 
Almshouse addition,   
City hall fund, ....   
City property, ..... , 
Fuel and street lights,  
Highways and bridges,  . 
High school and site, ...  . 
Public Works contingent,  
Sewers and drains,. ..  . 
Sidewalks, ......    
Street watering, ...   
Totals, ... $    . 
— ——  
;  -——— ———
$ 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
- Crry oF Hotyoke, Mass. 
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Honorable, the Board of

lldermen of the City of Holyoke, Muss.

Sirs :—The Board of Public Works takes pleasure in presenting herewith its third annual report, covering the fiscal year  :
It is, we believe, with feeling of pardonable pride that we are able
to announce that this Board has conducted the departments under
its control within the appropriations allowed at the beginning of the
fiscal year, except in the Department of Street Watering and Fuel
and Street Lighting. The shortage in these two departments is
balanced by unexpended balances in the Departments of Sidewalks,
Sewers and City Property, which departments furnished substantial
amounts for other municipal accounts without the Department of
Public Works.

We wish to urge the necessity of larger appropriations in all
departments under this Board. We are thoroughly convinced that
money expended for permanent work in the Out-Door Department
is wisely and economically expended. Should the financial condition of the city next year permit of larger appropriations for the
regular accounts, we urgently recommend that they be increased
over last year’s, if not, then, as in the past, we shall endeavor to conduct the departments within the amounts allowed. .

STREETS SHOULD BE WIDENED.

Your attention is respectfully called to the width of many of
our principal streets, which we believe are altogether too narrow to
safely accommodate the constantly increasing travel over them,
especially where the tracks of the street railway company are
located. The board believes that Northampton street from Cherry
street to South street should be widened before it is thickly built up
on the west side. At the present time there are few houses which
would be damaged by the widening. It has become more and more
evident in the experience of other cities that streets were originally

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
laid out too narrow and this mistake, we believe, has been made in
many cases in this city. It should be remedied before the city is
obliged to pay large sums for damages in widening the streets to
their proper width.

A reduction of grades of many of the country roads should also
be seriously considered and appropriations made therefor, at such
time as the finances of the city will permit. On our country roads
there are many steep grades, which at very little expense could be
cut down.

FORESTRY OUGHT TO BE ENCOURAGED.

It is the desire of the Board to spend greater amount of
money next year for forestry than in the past. We are firmly of :
the opinion that property owners and real estate men can be
encouraged to beautify the streets abutting their property by setting
out trees, provided the city will make an appropriation each year
for purchasing the trees. It would seem that it would be wise
expenditure of money if small amount could annually be set aside
for this purpose.

MACADAMIZE, NOT GRAVEL STREETS.

This department believes that money is more economically
expended for macadam than in gravelling the surfaces of our streets.
It is annually becoming more and more difficult to obtain gravel
that is suitable for hardening streets, except at cost that is almost
prohibitive of its use. Macadam can be bought f. o. b., cars,
Holyoke, for ninety cents per ton, and this price, it seems to us, is
practically as cheap as to cart gravel upon the streets, especially
where the gravel must be hauled considerable distance. It is the
opinion of the board that larger sums should be expended yearly in
in macadamizing the streets.

The board proposed to expend part of the appropriation for
highways in macadamizing the level streets in the Ward One District and in South Holyoke, where little work has been necessary
for the past two years.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

It will be but short time before some permanent work of this
nature must be done on Dwight street westerly from Elm street.
This street, we believe, should be macadamized to the foot of the
Dwight street hill.

We would recommend that in all cases where it is possible
without too great comparative expense macadam be used
instead of gravel. Following out this conviction, Maple street has
been top-dressed with coating of macadam this year, from point
near Franklin street to its intersection with South street, at cost
of This was continuation of the work done last year
from Cabot street to Franklin street. The macadam was placed
upon the street in much the same manner as top dressing of gravel
would be used and no excavating done. The work put down last
year has worn well, and we believe that this method of repairing the
surfaces of streets where the travel is not great answers all the
purposes of regularly laid macadam roadway, at much smaller
expense.

We desire to impress upon you the necessity of larger appropriations for permanent work and we believe that the appropriation

 for the account of highways and bridges should be increased at least
$ which increase in the appropriation is to be used in
permanent work.

Our experience with brick paving has been satisfactory, and we
recommend its use upon all streets where the grades will permit.
Whether the paving of streets should be continued the coming year
we are not prepared to state at the present time, except thatsome —
form of permanent roadway should be placed upon Appleton street,
between the New York, New Haven and Hartford railroad and
High street. Whether brick or the Belgian block pavement should
be used on this street will be matter for future consideration.

NEW BRIDGE ON CABOT STREET NEEDED.

The petition of the Holyoke Street Railway Company to run
larger and heavier cars on the Springfield line under the railroad
crossing on Cabot street, has brought again to our attention the
dangerous condition of the bridges on that street crossing the first
and second level canals. The bridge across the second level canal is

) REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
especially in dangerous condition,notwithstanding the repairs which
were made upon the structure last year and which were but temporary, to say the most. It is the opinion of the Board that this
bridge should be replaced at once with suitable stone structure
capable of carrying the traffic of the street for the future. We
would respectfully recommend that wherever practicable, masonry
bridges be used in bridging the canals in place af iron structures.

In connection with replacing the bridge on Cabot street above
referred to, efforts should be made-to have the Holyoke Street Railway Company bear portion of the expense. It-seems to the Board
but just and reasonable that this company should stand portion of
the expense of repairs in cases like this, where bridges or other
work is necessitated to some extent, at least, by the tracks of the
company running thereon. In this connection, attention should be :
called to allowing street railway tracks upon narrow streets without
the company bearing any part of the expense of widening or improving the streets. The time when attention should be given these
matters, gentlemen, we believe is when the franchises are granted.
We would recommend that no future franchises be granted any
street railway company on any heavily traveled street, or any street
within the city limits proper, unless said company agrees to use the
grooved rail, so called.

THE REMOVAL OF SNOW FROM STREETS.

The removal of snow from the streets upon which the tracks of
the Holyoke Street Railway Company are located caused considerable annoyance to the Board during the heavy storms of last winter .
Little can be said regarding the law, which went into effect October
  further than the statements made in the report of this Board
last year. The city has bills against the street railway for the
removal of snow amounting to for work done during the
fiscal year, covered by this report.

The Board is firmly of the opinion that this law should be
changed and in this opinion we are upheld by great majority of

; mayors and selectmen of thestate. With view of ascertaining the
feeling concerning this law existing in the state, the Board caused
letters of inquiry to be sent to all towns and cities where tracks are

i
 REPORT OF BOAKD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
located. The replies were almost unanimous to the effect that
| changes should be made; that the law was not clear in its statements that it was more favorable to the corporations than to the
cities and towns, and that the towns and cities stood ready to
/ co-operate with the city of Holyoke in asking the Legislature for a
change in the law. Mayor Dodge of Worcester has been especially
: interested in the movement for change in the law, and has
extended to the cities and towns of the Commonwealth the hospitality of his city for any meetings that may be deemed necessary
and advisable for promoting the cause.
STREET SIGNS.

In the matter of street signs little has been done for the past
two years. This Board believes that there should be signs upon all
of the streets. It is the desire of the Board to place number of
these signs during the cbming year, if suitable appropriation can
be obtained therefor. The work will be commenced upon the
principal streets and extended into the suburban districts as the
appropriations from time to time permit. The lack of proper street
signs has proven of great inconvenience to the public and suitable
signs should be placed upon all intersections of streets as soon as
possible. However, with the limited appropriations which the highway department has been allowed in past years, little work of this
nature can be done, as the appropriations are insufficient to keep
the highways themselves in proper condition.

ADDITIONAL CATCH-BASINS NEEDED.

: The proper drainage of streets is of moment in reducing the
expense of repairs, as streets without proper drainage are continually washing away and for this reason are continually in need of
repairs. To prevent the washing of streets as much as possible,
this year twenty-five additional catch-basins have been constructed.
There is an urgent need of still larger number of catch-basins and
it is the intention of this department to construct as many more as
possible during the coming year.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
NECESSITY FOR NEW WALKS AND CURBING.

In the business sections of the city large number of sidewalks
are in need of repair, while the residential portions are calling for
new walks and curbing. We hope to be able, if given increased
appropriations, to fill some of the demands made upon the department in these lines. The city has been somewhat neglected in this
department in past years and larger number of walks should be laid
annually, while the laying of curbing and paving of gutters are of
material benefit to the streets. |

When it is cansidered that one-half of the cost of constructing
new sidewalks and laying new curbing reverts back to the city
through the assessments that are made, this department considers it
a wise expenditure of money to make these improvements.

A larger appropriation is desired in the sidewalk department
this year and if  should be allowed we believe the amount
none too large.

THE SANITARY CONDITION OF BUILDINGS NEEDS
ATTENTION.

The sanitary condition of many of the public school buildings,
should be improved. ‘The appropriation of  given the
City Property Department this year was none too large had not
the Public Bath House been constructed from this amount. We
recommend that an appropriation of at least  be given
the City Property Department for the ensuing year.

COAL SHOULD BE BOUGHT IN SUMMER.

At the High school building  was expended for fuel,
lighting and power during the past year. This has been large
addition to the fixed expenses to be paid from the Department of
Fuel and Street Lighting. No additional electric lights have been
put upon the streets this year. For the past two years the appropriation in this department has not been sufficient to purchase the
coal for the buildings to carry them through the winter. We suggest that coal be purchased hereafter during the spring or summer
months in sufficient quantities to run the buildings during the cold

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
weather. If this policy is followed we believe that saving in the
appropriations can be made, as coal can be bought at lower figure
during the warm weather than it can in the middle of the winter.
In order that this may be accomplished we recommend an appropriation of at least  for  .

No settlement has been arrived at during the past year in the
municipal lighting question, and the agreement made in  
between the Holyoke Water Power Company and the city still
remains intact, the street lights being furnished for the same price
as they were under the old contract. In all probability this agreement will be carried out till the city takes possession of the lighting
plants.

Little work has been done in the Department of Sewers outside
of regular repairs and cleaning of catch basins. An appropriation
of  is desired in this department for the coming year.

\
OVERFLOWS FOR FRONT STREET SEWER.

The Board has this year constructed at Cabot street twentyfour inch overflow from the Front street sewer to the first level
canal, permission therefor having been granted by the Holyoke Water
Power Company. The overflow is designed solely to relieve the
sewer in times of heavy rainstorms. Its total cost was  .
It is planned to construct another of these overflows at the intersection of Lyman street with this sewer as early next year as the
weather will permit. The cost of these overflows is borne by the
regular sewer appropriation.

| CULVERT SHOULD BE EXTENDED.

It is probable that the culvert in the Maple street dingle, so
called, must be extended northerly too feet during the coming
summer in order to provide an extension dumping ground for the
Board of Health and the Highway and Sewer Departments. The
culvert put in two years ago has been covered and there will not be
sufficient room to last the departments for the coming year without
extending the culvert. It is estimated that an appropriation of
$  will be required for this work.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
| "PUBLIC BATH HOUSE.

Following out recommendation of the Board of Aldermen,
this Board erected at cost of  public bath house upon 
land on Commercial street leased from the Holyoke Water Power
Company, no rent except the payment of the taxes on said land
being charged by the’company. In our opinion, the experiment
has been success, as large number of boys and girls have visited
the place this summer. The keeper of the house informs usthat on |
days when the weather was extremely warm as many of boys
visited the house. The house was kept open Wednesday afternoons
and evenings for the accommodation of girls and large numbers
availed themselves of the privilege. The total expense of constructing and operating the bath house for the season was .
The house was opened on June and was closed September  .

NEW BUILDINGS AT CITY YARD DESIRED.

The City Engineering Department was asked late this year to
prepare plans and specifications for new brick building to be
erected at the city yard during the coming year. The necessity for
this building is too apparent for comment. At the present time,
there are not buildings enough at the yard for the storage of tools,
watering carts, sewer carts and other apparatus which the city owns. |
We believe that an appropriation of  should be made next
year for this purpose.

TABLE OF BILLS AND PAYROLLS,  .
The expenditures in the various departments subdivided into
bills and payrolls were as follows, viz:
CITY HALL FUND.
Payrolls, 
Bills,  
FUEL AND STREET LIGHTS.
Payrolls, , 
Bills, ..  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES. :
Payrolls, , 
Bills,   
HIGH SCHOOL APPROPRIATION. |
Bills, ‘$  
PUBLIC WORKS CONTINGENT.
Payrolls, . 
Bills,  
| SEWERS AND DRAINS.
Payrolls, , 
Bills, , 
. SIDEWALKS.
Payrolls, oo. 
Bills,  .g 
STREET WATERING.
Payrolls, , 
Bills,  
CITY PROPERTY. |
Payrolls, , 
Bills,   

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Report of City Engineer Relative to Sewerage
and Drainage Svstems, to the Board.

At the request of the Board the City Engineer has made study
of the sewer systems about the city. His report to the Board upon
the subject is herewith presented for your consideration :

The Honorable, the Board of Public Works of the City of

Holyoke, Muss.

GENTLEMEN: At your request have made study, and
herein submit report upon some of the more important problems .
relating to the sewerage and drainage systems of the city, viz.: The
control and removal of storm waters, which from time to time flood
cellars the disposal of the Walnut street sewage, so that it will no
longer continue nuisance in the neighborhood in which it is discharged and, lastly, plan for system of sewerage for the Highland district north of Lincoln street and west of Taylor street.

Of those sewers or drains which are unable to remove all storm
waters without becoming gorged, the Front street trunk sewer is the
most important one, followed by the Main-Race street sewer, between
Hamilton and Sargeant streets; the Jackson street sewer, between Bridge and Park streets, and the Hampden street sewer,
between Taylor and Nonotuck streets.

Storm waters, which sewers or drains in any municipal district
have to remove, may be divided into three classes: Those which
occur as Often as three or four times year, those not more than
once year, and those only at intervals of several years. ‘The last ;
may be considered phenomenal in character, and cannot be controlled unless economy, or rather the cust of construction of the
sewerage system, is entirely disregarded.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The loss resulting from the flooding of cellars even as seldom
as once year with water more or less foul, and the danger to health
after the floods have withdrawn, have led municipalities to the conclusion that it is more economical to control these floods than settle
the damages done by them. :

Since storm water depends upon the rainfall, it was supposed,
and had become more or less of an empirical law throughout this

: part of the country, that sewerage system designed to carry off  
per cent of an inch of rainfall per hour upon the catchment area of
the system, would be sufficient to remove all flood waters except
those of phenomenal character, as above mentioned.

To test the truth of this law led this department to make computations upon the discharging capacity of the Front street trunk,

| the result of which brought out the fact that this sewer was not only
designed large enough to discharge the above quantity, but per
cent more, yet from actua] experience we know that the sewer is

not equal to the demands made upon it, as it becomes gorged
several times year.

Although the gorging of sewers or drains may be of short duration, perhaps only few minutes in some instances, and probably
not longer than half an hour even in phenomenal storms, still, long
enough to commit such damages by flooding cellars that it makes

- it very necessary for something to be done to prevent these occurrences, as far as possible. and thus relieve suffering people from
a situation anything but desirable to them.

Were heavy rainstorms of regular occurrence, say, once or
twice month, and did they continue for some length of time, the
problem of controlling them would be very rational one, but as
the case actually is, it seems anything but reasonable to think of
expending large sums for the construction of additional water
courses which may not be needed, all told, more than one hour
per year. However, no matter how unreasonable it may appear,
a large expenditure for such purpose would have to be made
in. the case of the Front street sewer, were it not for the
kindly consideration of the Holyoke Water Power Company, who
has granted permission to your Engineer to so tap the sewer at
different points in its length that the surplus storm waters which
gorge the sewer can be discharged into the canal. It is trusted the

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
city will appreciate this favor, it being saving of several thousands
of dollars. From computations made, it seemed unnecessary to tap
the sewer in more than two places, viz.: Cabot street and Lyman
street, the tapping to be done by  -inch Akron pipe inserted into
the top of the sewer and extended to the canal, into which it will discharge two feet below the surface of the water. It is unnecessary to
comment on the wisdom of tapping the sewer in such manner or
the benefit to be derived therefrom, since the tap already inserted
in Cabot street has proven its efficiency. When the other tap is
inserted in Lyman street, it may then be taken for granted that no ,
more manhole covers will be removed or cellars flooded by the overflowing of the Front street trunk sewer.

SEWER IN ALLEY BETWEEN MAIN AND RACE STREETS.

For some time, flooded cellars in heavy storms have become
more or less general along the line of this sewer between Hamilton
and Sargeant streets. Why this is the case is not yet determined, as a
study of the sewer brings out the fact that it has relatively high
discharging capacity when tested by the limited area which it
drains. It has been suggested that the cause of the trouble lies in
its small outlet, which is only  -inch iron pipe laid under the  d
level canal. Such may be possible, but if so the pressure in the
sewer above the outlet in Canal street would have to be equivalent
to head of feet before the velocity or flow in the sewer at Main
street would be retarded. ;

Again, if the  -inch outlet is the cause of throwing back-water
into cellars along Main street, would not the same thing occur and
in greater degree to the cellars along the line of the sewer and
its tributaries toward the outlet? Evidently this should not be the
case. The cellars near the outlet, other things being equal, ought to
be flooded before back water would be detected in the cellars along
Main street.

If, therefore, unable to diagnose the difficulty, it is hard to prescribe remedy consequently no plan for relieving this sewer shall
be proposed until more thorough investigation is made, and until

 the cause or causes of the trouble are more fully understood.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
THE JACKSON STREET SEWER.

To relieve this sewer, which has been overflowing into cellars
for years, it is only necessary to extend the Jackson street trunk,
now built as far as the alley between Summer and Bridge streets, to
the alley between Main and Park streets, distance of feet.
This extension will cost about  per foot, or total of .
HAMPDEN STREET SEWER BETWEEN NONOTUCK AND

PEARL STREETS.

The source of the Hampden street sewer is two catch-basins
on Northampton street and Easthampton road. The drainage area
of these basins is considerable, and large quantity of water enters
them in times of heavy rainstorms.

If the  -inch sewer in Beacon avenue was extended distance of feet and connected with these catch-basins, part of
their drainage would be conducted through Beacon avenue, thus
relieving the Hampden street sewer. In case this extension, which
will not cost over does not accomplish what is desired, a

 new relief sewer can be built in Hampden street, beginning at the
point where the sewer becomes gorged and extending to point  
feet east of Brooks avenue, where it will discharge into the Hampden
street sewer. The discharging capacity of the latter at this point,
on account of its size and grade, being much greater than at any
point in the sewer west of Brooks avenue.

THE WALNUT SEWAGE.

As is well known, the Walnut street sewer, which collects the
drainage and sewage of great portion of the city, discharges into
the Connecticut river above the dam. Although the dry weather
flow is conducted and discharged at some distance into the river by
a  -inch iron pipe, yet odors arise therefrom of such disagreeable
character that the sewage as it is now discharged cannot be considered otherwise than an intolerable nuisance in the surrounding
neighborhood.

 Many plans might be suggested for the abatement of this
nuisance, but only couple of the more practicable ones will be

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
considered here, viz.: The extension of the present dry weather
outlet to point farther into the river or the diversion of the dry
weather flow into the Front street sewer, which discharges below
the dam. ,

At this point the question might be pertinently asked, What is
the necessity for extending the dry weather outlet far into the river,
as would it not be sufficient to extend it to point where there
would always be depth of water sufficient to properly dilute the
sewage and cause it to quickly lose its identity? This may be
answered by stating that it is not altogether the proper dilution of the
sewage that is required, but also the quick removal of the floating
matters which it contains, otherwise those matters will be drifted back
and thrown upon the shore, where in short time they will become
foul under the action of the elements. This is to great extent
what is causing the nuisance at present, as the outlet discharges
into comparatively deep water, but on account of having no direct
current to carry the discharge away, the floating matters are drifted
back and thrown upon the bank where, in the summer time, from
the action of the sun they very soon become foul and give out
obnoxious odors. Hence why it is necessary to extend the outlet
into the river where the current is sufficiently rapid to carry all the
sewage directly away. ,

But while the extension of the outlet to such point in the
river would, no doubt, relieve the neighborhood from those odors
and stenches arising from the sewage as it is at present discharged,
yet another evil would still remain which deserves the greatest consideration, that is, the sewage passing into our canal system, especially in time of low water, as in the past season. This is one of the
strongest objections that can be raised against the disposal of sewage into the river above the dam. While the sewage may apparentlv lose its identity in the large volume of water flowing through
the canals, yet the germs of disease that it contains are living, active
organisms, some of which are nowise annihilated with the sewage,
but ready to prey upon and destroy human life if the opportunity is
afforded them. And is this opportunity not afforded them every
day by some of our operatives in the shops and mills who, contrary
to rules, drink clarified or’ partially filtered canal water used for
industrial uses in preference to the water from the city mains,

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
simply because the former may be better tasting and purer in
- appearance than the latter? |
This danger alone of contracting disease from such source
ought to be sufficient grounds for the disposal of crude sewage
otherwise than into the river in close proximity to the head-gates of
the canals. From sanitary standpoint, therefore, the second
plan, which proposes to discharge the dry weather flow of the
Walnut street system into the Front street sewer, is the proper one
to adopt. To this plan there can be no objection except the cost
which, as the estimates will show, does not exd And it
might be said this cost would be nowise so high were it not for the
route that the sewer connecting Walnut and Front streets will have
to follow and the kind of material which is intended to be used in
its construction. |
The route which seems the most available and economical one.
will run in curved line from point in the Walnut street sewer
below its last tributary, where the elevation of the bottom of the
sewer is  toward the Boston and Maine railroad, west of the ice
house Thence along the railroad to the man-hole in the Front
street sewer, where the elevation of the sewer is feet. The
, ‘total distance of this route is feet, feet of which is solid
rock. As is seen, the difference in elevation between point of
intake and point of discharge is the difference between and
 Or feet, which means grade for the sewer of  per
foot. But this fall is not uniformly distributed over the route, ro
feet being in the first feet, while there is only inches in the
remaining feet. To lay the sewer on uniform grade of  
foot per foot would necessitate the construction of an embankment
between intake and discharge end, otherwise the course of the sewer
would have to be changed. But to change the course of the sewer
to the next practical route, where uniform grade of per foot
could be found, means an excavation in solid rock for almost the
total length of the sewer. Hence to make uniform grade in the
one case is neither practicable nor economical and in the other, if
practicable, certainly not economical.
To obviate the necessity of doing either and to bring the cost
of construction within economic limits, it is proposed to build the
sewer of cast iron pipe laid feet below the present profile of the

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
ground, as the drawings accompanying this report show. sewer
constructed of this material can discharge under pressure, hence its
discharging capacity will be practically the same as if the sewer
was laid on hydraulic gradient and built of Akron pipe.

The next point to be considered is the size of the sewer, which
of course should depend upon the quantity of sewage to be discharged. With certain additions, this quantity can be considered
equal to the supply of water used in the same territory. Since such
is the case, the water used can be estimated from the population,
which may reach or thereabouts, provided the growth of the
city increases and becomes more compact.

The consumption of water per inhabitant per day, with due
liberality, is taken in this territory as gallons. But from
experience we know there are days and some parts of the same day
when the consumption of water is much higher than the normal.

For instance, on wash days in the morning the draft on the water
supply is nearer to twice the normal. Another factor which should

be considered is the ground water which drains into the sewers, its
quantity depending upon the length of the sewers and the imperviousness of their joints. Without being too analytical, the dry
weather flow from the Walnut street system, allowing for instance

in population, can be assumed to not exd rate of millions .
of gallons per day. The size of the conduit to discharge this
quantity is all that would be necessary were it not proposed to
convey by the same conduit the dry weather flow of the proposed 
Highland sewerage system into the Front street trunk. )

On the supposition that the Highland district north of Lincoln .
street will at some future time have population of  or to
the acre, then by the same parity of reasoning as in the Walnut street |
system, the maximum dry weather flow to be expected from here
will not.exd the rate of millions of gallons per day. Hence
the size of the conduit should be sufficiently large to discharge not
less than four millions of gallons per day.

The discharging capacity of  -inch cast iron pipe  
feet in length and under head of feet is, with deduction of
  per cent for tuberculation or incrustation that may or may not
grow on the inside walls of the pipe, gallons per day,
while the discharging capacity of  -inch pipe is  and.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

and that of  -inch,  These figures show the first size
would be too small, while the last would be too large. The middle
size, or  -inch, comes the nearest to what is desired and, therefore,
is the most economical size to adopt.

It is hardly necessary to draw your attention to the method of
disposing of the storm water, which will be discharged, as at present, through the storm water overflow into the river. At the point
in the Walnut street trunk from which the cast iron pipe will be
laid, fixture will be placed to prevent any drainage passing through
the. storm water overflow until the pipe is discharging its full
capacity.

The following table gives the total estimated cost of diverting
the Walnut street sewage and discharging it into the Front street
trunk |
  ft. cast iron pipe,weighing tons at  per ton,  Ibs. of lead at $.  per lb.  
Haulage of pipe and lead, etc.,   yards of rock excavation at  per yard,   yards of earth excavation and back-filling,  
Laying of pipe, etc.,  
For brick and sundries,  

$ 
Io per cent for incidentals, etc.,”  
Grand total, . 
HIGHLAND SEWER SYSTEM.

The proposed system of sewerage for the Highland district will
cover all the territory in Holyoke north of Lincoln street and west
of Taylor street. At present the population of this territory is
small, probably not greater than  but is likely to increase in
growth until the population reaches about  ,o which may be considered the maximum limit, since the district will be wholly residential one.

The most natural outlet for the drainage of all this territory is

mo the Connecticut river, which bounds it on one side. In Mr.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Kirkpatrick, who was then City Engineer, made very thorough
study of this same problem, and, as result, proposed plan of
sewerage based upon the assumption so natural that all the sewage 
could be disposed of by discharging it, in its crude state, into the
river at point most convenient to the territory to be sewered.
However, this method of disposing of the sewage was not satisfactory to the State Board of Health, unless it underwent some process
of purification beforehand.

Starting, then, from the premises that crude sewage from the
Highland district cannot be discharged in the river at any point
above the dam, it is hardly necessary to state which system of sewerage, whether the combined or separate, would be the most economical under such circumstances.

The combined system has always been followed in this city,
but the conditions imposed in the present case throw this system
out of consideration unless the cost of disposing of the sewage is
disregarded. Granted, then, that the proposed Highland sewerage system
will be constructed on the separate plan, the best methods of disposing of the sewage can now be discussed, which must undergo
some form of purification if discharged into the river above the dam
or, if disposed of in its crude state, must be conveyed and dis- charged into the river belowthe dam. Froma study and comparison

of both methods regarding their first cost and yearly maintenance,

and, as shown in the City Engineer’s report of (see pages  

to  Municipal Register,  ), the latter method is by far the

more economical one, especially if developed upon the plan herein
suggested. ,

As drawing marked shows, this plan is to collect all the sewage of the system at point in the dingle near the north end of
Pearl street, whence it will be conveyed in trunk sewer through
the dingle to the Boston and Maine railroad. Thence along the
railroad to the ice house, where it will be discharged into the  -inch
cast-iron pipe, which in turn will discharge into the Front street
trunk.

The difference in elevation between the point where the sewage
will be collected and the height equivalent to the pressure in the  inch pipe at the ice house will be feet, while the distance will be

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
  feet, thus making grade of little over .o  per foot, but this
 grade will not be uniform one, the whole fall, with the exception of
one foot,being in the dingle between Pearl street and the railroad, a
. distance of feet. It will be impracticable, therefore, to lay the
sewer on grade of .o  per foot, hence, like in the Walnut street
extension, it is proposed to construct the sewer of cast-iron which
can follow the contour of the ground and have practically the same
discharging capacity, when running full, as an Akron pipe of the
same size laid on uniform grade of .or per foot.

Likewise, as in the Walnut street extension, the size of the
‘trunk should depend upon the quantity of sewage to be discharged.
This quantity has already been discussed under the Walnut street
system, when it was computed to be at the rate of millions of
gallons per day. cast-iron pipe inches in diameter and  
feet in length, working under head of feet, has discharging
capacity of or  allowing per cent to be
deducted for incrustation of the pipe. It is evident, then, thata —
 -inch pipe will be sufficiently large to discharge all of the sewage
of the Highland district into the Front street trunk. Unlike the
 -inch pipe, this  -inch pipe will not discharge any storm water,
consequently the pipe will not discharge its full capacity, or perhaps
one-quarter of its capacity, until the population materially increases
beyond what it is at present. On this account the pipe may need
flushing occasionally, for which provision shall be made by connecting with it the water main in Pearl street. Flushing then can be
done as often as is necessary, by the shutting of one valve and the
opening of another. It might be mentioned here that it is assumed
permission will be granted by the authorities of the Boston and
Maine railroad to lay both the ro-inch and  -inch pipes in their
land and along their tracks.

The estimate of cost of laying  -inch trunk from Pearl street
to connect with  -inch pipe at ice house is as follows:

  tons of  -inch cast iron pipe at  per ton,   lbs. of lead at .o  per Ib.,  
Haulage, oakum, wedges, lumber, etc.,  
Excavation, back filling, laying of pipe, etc.,   yards of filling,  

| ‘REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
For removing spur track, cars on railroad, etc., 
Intake for gates, ..  
$  per cent for incidentals,  
. Total, . 
Since the sewerage system will be constructed on the separate
plan, two sewers will be required in almost every street, one for the
house waste, or sewage proper, and the other for the drainage of the
district. The latter are known as storm water sewers, which always
 discharge into their nearest natural water courses. The house
sewers which are now necessary, or will be inside of couple
of years, are:
Distance in feet.
 -inch sewer in Pearl st. from Fairfield ave. to C. I. trunk,  -inch sewerin Nonotuck st. from Morgan st. to Madisonave.,  
Continuation of Nonotuck st. through Madison ave. to Pearlst.,  -inch sewer in Highland ave. from point feet easterly
of Nonotuck to Nonotuck street sewer,  -inch sewer in Pleasant st. from point midway between
Highland ave. and ‘‘the dingle,’ across the dingle to
- Howard street,  
Total, .  
The latter sewer will be cast iron from top of the bank of
' dingle to its discharge end. It will be connected on east side of
Pleasant street with cast iron trunk.
The storm water sewers that probably will be necessary within
a few years are:
; Distance in feet.
 -inch pipe in Nonotuck street from Fairfield avenue to
Highlandavenue,  -inch pipe in Nonotuck street from Highland avenue
to Madison avenue,  -inch pipe in Madison avenue from Nonotuck to Pearl
street, :  -inch pipe in Pearl street from Fairfield avenue to
Highland avenue, wo.  -inch pipe in Pearl street from Highland avenue to
Madison avenue,  -inch pipe in dingle from Pearl street to bottom of
dingle, .  
Total, -  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
All the storm water sewers will discharge through the  -inch
| pipe laid from Pearl street to the bottom of the dingle, into the
natural water course running through the dingle.

The estimated cost of both system of sewers tabulated above is

as follows :—
Separate, or house sewers, including man-holes, lampholes, flush tanks, etc., . 
Storm water sewers, including catch-basins, man-holes,

etc.,  

$  —
 per cent added for incidentals, etc.,  
$ 
) Therefore the cost of the sewerage system will be eight
thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, plus twelve thousand four
hundred and seventy-two dollars (the cost of the main trunk), or a
total of .

Of this amount five thousand two hundred dollars will be

. returned to the city by the abuttors, thus making the net cost
$ .

The estimated cost of diverting the Walnut street sewage was
shown to be ten thousand two hundred and eighty-nine dollars.
Therefore the cost of diverting the Walnut street sewage and the
development of sewerage system for the Highlands will be
$ or, if deducting the amount which shall be returned to the
city by the abuttors,  .

It should be mentioned that in estimating the cost of the Highland system no provision was made for the sewering of undeveloped
land or of streets upon which no residences are as yet built.

In conclusion your engineer desires to thank the Superintendent of Out-Door Work for the valuable information and data he has
furnished, so necessary for report like this.

Respectfully submitted,

[Signed JAMES L. TIGHE,

City Engineer.
Holyoke, Mass., November,  .

| REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR
WORK TO THE BOARD.

To the Honorable, the Board of Public Works of the City of

Holyoke, Massachusetts.

GENTLEMEN :—The followlng recommendations are respectfully submitted for your kind consideration.

The problem whith must be solved is where can good road
dressing be obtained for our forty miles of graveled streets at the
least possible expense. Dwight and Hampden streets from Elm to
Northampton street, Springfield road along its entire length, all
streets in Wards and and South Holyoke are in deplorable
condition. There is no more gravel to be had 'and, therefore, I
would again respectfully,recommend the purchasing of portable

stone crusher. think suitable stone can be found either in
Cleary’s or Delaney’s quarry for Dwight and Hampden streets and
Ward  and for Springfield road and South Holyoke suitable material could be found inthe city’s gravel bank. By crushing, the same
would make good road dressing that would wear for years.
PAVING.

Appleton street from High street to Holyoke and Westfield
railroad track, Cabot street between first and second level canals,
and Lyman street from Bowers to Center street should be paved
next year. |

The asphalt paving on Lyman and Hampden and some sections )
of High street should be relaid, as the life of any paving is greatly
reduced by its unevenness. Moisture in the depression causes the
blocks to rot and wear faster than if kept even and dry.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
| At the sixth annual meeting of the American Society of Municipal Improvements, the question was discussed ‘‘ Which is the best
filler for brick pavings, and what causes rumbling in this class of
street improvement?’’ It was claimed that cement grout filler
would add five years to the life of brick pavement, as it will prevent
the brick from chipping at the edges, but it will form masonry .
arch of the pavement, and not only prevents the brick from expanding in warm weather, but adds its own expansion and, therefore, |
is considered responsible for the rumbling in brick pavements by rea- ;
— isms **
!
’ Stns case r
expense of street watering, and our country roads will be benefited
as well as beautified.
STREET WATERING.
All watering carts should be painted and repaired this winter,
so as to give the paint time to harden before carts go in use next
spring.
The car sprinkler did not give as good satisfaction this year as
last. ‘This is not so much the fault of the sprinkler as its manage- ment. It is no easy matter to get men to do your work as one
would like when you have no direct control over them and are
governed wholly by the Street Railway Company. would suggest

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
that the Street Railway Company be permitted to furnish the motorman to run the car and your Honorable Board furnish the other
two men to manage the sprinkler. By so doing there would be no
doubt of better results.

| SEWERS.

A great deal of criticism was leveled against your Superintendent for dumping catch-basin matter in the street, but it is
impossible to keep all the catch-basins clean, some seven hundred
in number, with only four sanitary carts. I, therefore, would recommend the purchase of at least four more carts and avoid all further |
criticism along that line.

The Sargeant street sewer should be extended from Sargeant
street south to the Jackson street trunk sewer and thereby do away
with the flooding of cellars in alley of Main and Race streets and
on Sargeant street. The Jackson street sewer should be extended .
on Jackson street from the alley of Summer and Bridge streets to
the alley of Main and Park streets. There should be sewer constructed on the Springfield road for distance of eighteen hundred
feet along the Ingleside line (near Corser Arthur tract, so
called). Such sewer would furnish ample drainage for the houses
in that locality, besides carrying off all surface water from the west
side of the road and thereby prevent the washouts on the east side of
the road which occur more or less every spring. Provision should
be made for the building of twenty-five catch-basins, at least, the
coming season.

EAVE-SPOUTS.

I think it wuold be well for your Honorable Board to get number of copies of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of
City of Holyoke against Hadley Company for maintaining and
allowing water to run on sidewalks through eave-spouts, and by .
sending copy to all of the property owners maintaining such
spouts, showing that they are liable for accidents, it ought to have
the desired effect to have all eave-spouts connected with the sewers.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
| CITY YARD.

I would respectfully recommend that suitable building be
erected on the City Yard lot large enough to house all our machinery and tools. The city scales, now located on Hampden street,
should be moved to Commercial street front of City Yard, and by
so doing you would do away with the cramped condition of Hampden street and would be great convenience to the city departments. ,

I desire to extend my thanks to your Honorable Board, the
Engineering Department and Mr. O. C. Ferry for the kind and considerate treatment have received.

Respectfully submitted,
[Signed HENRY WINKLER,
Superintendent of Out-Door Work.
Holyoke, Mass., December .

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
REPORT OF CITY FORESTER.
To the Board of Public Works, Holyoke, Mass.

 John Tappe and two assistants were engaged for about four
weeks in trimming the trees and destroying insects in the trees in
May and June of thisyear. The trees have been trimmed on Essex,
Maple, Chestnut, Pearl and Northampton streets; in Elmwood, in
Oakdale, and on the Highlands.

The elm trees of the city were sprayed for the elm tree beetle
and also for caterpillar that appeared in large numbers in June.

I notice that the maple louse is gathering upon quite number
of the maple trees of the city. This isthe most difficult insect to
exterminate that we have, and should have attention next season.
Appropriations for the year amounted to 
Expenditures for the year: :

Payrolls, $ 

Bills,  
Overdrafts paid out of Highways and Bridges,  |

The amount annually appropriated for the care of trees is not
adequate.

Most of the shade trees in this city are young and growing and
can be cared for now at much less expense than after they reach
a larger size.

) Yours truly,

[Signed] D. H. NEWTON, Forester.

Holyoke, Mass., November .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
U
Table of Itemized Expenditures in the Department of Out-Door Work.
Graveling Appleton street—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
: ————  
Repairing brick paving, Appleton street, cost
paid by Eastern Paving Brick Company—
Labor, & 
Materials,  
————  
Graveling Adams street— |
Labor, $ 
Materials,   |
——-——— |
Grading Allyn street for W. H. Abbott—
Labor, $  |
Replanking first level canal bridge, Appleton |
street— |
Labor,  
Materials,  
——  
Repairing bridges (miscellaneous )— ,
Labor,,   |
Repairing walk, west side of Bh street, :
between Appleton and Essex streets—
Labor,  
Materials,  
—-——  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
PD alanhwemeuinaan Canal ctreet ahuttine blade cemesemenesemenntmtemmetemmeeniee
-y 


  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. |
np a
|
‘
Ryerss
Digitized by Google
— Go

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Relaying paving on Canal street abutting Hadley thread mill— ,
| Labor, $ 
Materials,  
: ———-  |
Building catch-basin, intersection of Park and ,
Jackson streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,   ;
———  
Building catch-basin, intersection High and
Franklin streets— )
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
———.  
Building catch-basin, intersection of Commercial street and Bristol place—
Labor, 
Materials,  
———  
Building catch basin in alley between High and ,
Newton streets—
Labor, Lae 
Materials,  
———  
Building catch-basin, Commercial street near
Avon place—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
———  
Building four catch-basins, intersection of Sargeant and Linden streets—
| Labor, &  
Material,   |
———.  
Building catch-basin, intersection of Hampden
and Nonotuck streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
: ——-———-  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Building catch-basin, intersection of Center
and Samosett streets —
Labor, € 
Materials,   |
————  }
Building catch-basin, intersection of West and
East Dwight streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
————  
Building catch-basin, Willow street near Laurel
street |
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
——  
Building two catch-basins, intersection of Adams
and Summer streets— .
Labor,   
Materials,  
———  
Building catch basin, intersection of Essex and
Sycamore streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
———  
Building catch basin, intersection Brown avenue
and Laurel street—
Labor, . 
Materials,   |
——-— 
Building catch-basin, corner of Sargeant and
Sycamore streets—
Labor, $ 
- Materials,  
———  
Building catch basin, Bh street near Franklin street—
Labor,  

"REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Building two catch basins, intersection of Winter and Appleton streets—
Labor, 
Materials,  
———  .
Building catch basin in alley bounded by High,
Union, Lyman and Franklin streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
———  
Building catch basin east side of Bridge street, |
between East Dwight and Mosher streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
| ——  
Building catch basin, north side of East Dwight
street, between West and Mosher streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
—-——  
Building catch basin, Lyman street between
Bowers street and Ely court—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
——— :
Building catch’,basin, intersection of Walnut
and Hampshire streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
—————.  
Building catch basin, Northampton street, near
Myrtle avenue —
Labor, 
Materials,  
—————  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Extending sewer in alley bounded by Chestnut,
Elm, Essex and Appleton streets—
Labor,  
Materials,  
———\—.  
Cleaning and repairing sewer in alley bounded
by Elm, Walnut, Dwight and Suffolk streets—
Labor,  
Materials,  
————  
Laying catch basin pipe, intersection Walnut
and Lyman streets—
Labor, . 
Materials, AI.II
. ————  
Cleaning and caring for catch basins—
Labor, , 
Materials,  
—————  
Building crosswalk, west side of Oak street,
across Appleton street—
Labor,   
Materials,  
———  
Building crosswalk, west side of Brown avenue,
across Laurel street— ;
Labor, . .
Materials,  
————-  
Building crosswalk, west side of High street,
across Essex street— .
Labor, . 
Materials,  
. ——————  
Building crosswalk, intersection Maple and
Dwight streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
————  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. 
Building crosswalk, east side of High street,
across John street— .
Labor, . 
Materials,  
————  
Building crosswalk, Park street near Sargeant
street— .
Labor, Lo. 
Materials,  
————  
Building crosswalk, intersection Sargeant and
Linden streets— |
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
———  
Building crosswalk, intersection of Hamilton
and Park streets—
Labor,   
Materials,  
———— 
Building crosswalk, intersection of Hamilton
and Bridge streets— |
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
| ———-  
Building crosswalk, intersection of Main and
Hamilton streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
—-——-.--  
Building crosswalk, intersection of Sargeant |
and High streets —
Labor,  
; Materials,  
———  
Building crosswalk, intersection of Taylor and
Lincoln streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
———  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Building crosswalk, west side of High street
across Suffolk street—
Labor, $ 
Materials, 
——— 
Repairing crosswalks (miscellaneous) —
Labor, $ 
Cleaning crosswalks—
Labor,  
Repairing cinder sidewalks (miscellaneous) —
Labor,  
Building cinder sidewalk (miscellaneous) —
| Labor,  
Building cinder sidewalk, Appleton street east
of Bowers street—
Labor,  
Building cinder sidewalk, Bridge street near 
Adams street—
Labor,  
Gravelling Cabot street, Oak to Linden street—
Labor,  
Materials, an  
— -———  
Repairing sewer in Center street—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
——  
Repair and care of country roads—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
————  
Work for Sandford H. Chase—
Labor, &  
Repairs on Dwight street —
Labor,  
Materials,  
——-——  

REPORT OF ‘BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Building sewer to connect with catch basin,
East Dwight street—
Labor,  
Materials,  
———— 
Repairs on Essex street |
Labor, wae . 
Relaying paving between Street Railway Company’s tracks (miscellaneous) —
. Labor,  
Extending sewer in alley bounded by Elm,
Walnut, Cabot and Sargeant streets—
Labor,  
Materials,  
—-  
Repairing Elm street, south of Cabot street—
Labor,  
Materials,  
————  
Building overflow Front street sewer at Cabot
street—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
——  
Expenses of City Forester —
-Labor, $ 
Materials,  
———  
Flushing paved streets—
. Labor, SI 
Cobbling gutter, north side of Laurel street,
Charles street to Brown avenue—
. Labor,  
Cobbling gutter, Cabot street west from Oak |
street —
Labor,  

‘  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Paving gutter, Oak street, west side, between
Essex and Cabot streets —
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
i ———  
Paving gutter, intersection of Bridge and Canal
streets |
Labor, 
Materials,  
————  
Paving gutter, Vernon street .
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
|  
Paving gutter, intersection Hampshire and .
; Locust streets—
Labor, $ 
Paving gutter, Sargeant street— |
Labor,  
Paving gutter, intersection Brown avenue and
Laurel street—
Labor,, ...  
Materials,  
———— :
Paving gutter, south side of South street—
) Labor, $ 
Materials,  
——  
Paving gutter, Chestnut street, between Fountain and Prospect streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
| ———-—  
| Paving gutter, west side of Summer street,
between Hamilton and Sargeant streets ;
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
————-—  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Cleaning gravel streets— )
Labor, . 
Paving alley, rear High street engine house—
Labor,  .
Materials,   :
- ———  
Work for engineer on Highland sewer system—
Labor,  
Relaying paving, High- street at Appleton
street —
Labor,  
Materials,  
——— 
‘Constructing sewer in Howard street—
Labor,  I. 
Materials,  
————  
Repairing High street (miscellaneous) —
Labor, *  
‘Repairing Hampden street— :
Labor,  
Materials,  
| ———  
‘Relaying paving, High street, abutting new
building of A. Steiger —
Labor,  
Materials,  
————  
‘Repairing Hampshire street—
Labor, $  .
Repairing Jackson street—
Labor,  
Materials,  
————  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Grading and graveliing James street—
. Labor,  
Materials,  
———  
Replanking second level canal bridge, Lyman
street —
Labor, &  
Materials,  
———  
Constructing sewer in Locust street—Labor in  . 
Labor in  ..  
Materials,  
———  
Repairing Lincoln street—  
Paving Lincoln street, north side between
Pleasant and Pearl streets—“Labor,  
Materials,  
——— 
Extending sewer in Linden street near Sargeant street .
Labor, tok 
Materials,  
| ————  Relaying paving and curbing for McAuslan &
Wakelin—
) Labor, . 
Materials,  
———  
Relaying paving, Main street, abutting Merrick |
thread mills—
Labor, 
Materials,  
———— 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Macadamizing Maple street, Franklin to South
street—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
—— —— 
Repairing sewer, alley bounded by Appleton,
Essex, Elm and Walnut streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
——-—  
Repairing sidewalk, Maple street—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
— -———  
Repairing Maple street (miscellaneous) —
Labor, . 
Materials,  
‘ Repairing Mosher street— |
Labor, II. 
‘Testing foundations and repairing Main street
bridge near United States Envelope Co.—
Labor,  
Materials and contract,  
———  
Relaying paving, Main near Mosher street-— |
Labor, . 
Relaying paving for New England Telephone
and Telegraph Company—
- Labor,  
Repairing Northampton street—
Labor,  
Materials,  
Widening Northampton street, from Northamp| ton line southerly—
Labor, . 

/
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Graveling Oak street—
Labor, . 
Removing obstructions from Pleasant street
sewer—
Labor,  
Cleaning paved streets—
Labor,  
Constructing sand-catcher in Prospect street
sewer— |
Labor,  
Materials,  
———-  
Freeing Prospect street sewer from obstructions—
Labor, . 
Work repairing lawn, F. F. Partridge—
Labor,  
Repairing Race street—
Labor,  
Materials,   |
———  
Re-covering sidewalks—
Labor, .  .
Materials,  
—————  
Work of steam roller in South Hadley—
Labor, . 
Constructing sidewalk, south side of Suffolk
street, Pine to Bh streets—
Labor,  
Materials,  
———-  
Building sidewalk, Spring street, Main to Park
streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
——— 

, REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Constructing sidewalk, Sargeant street, between
Commercial and High streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
———— 
Setting curbing, South side of Cabot street,
Fairmount square to alley westerly—
Labor,  
Material, ..  
. ————-  
Constructing sidewalk on Oak and Cabot streets—
Labor, -- 
Materials,  
—— 
Constructing sidewalk, north side of Lincoln
street, between Pleasant and Pearl streets —
Labor, . 
Materials,  
———  
Constructing sidewalk, south side Laurel street, :
Brown avenue to Northampton street —
Labor, . 
Materials,  
————  
Constructing sidewalk, South side of Lincoln
street, between Williams and Waldo streets—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
————  
Constructing sidewalk on Williams street, east
side, between Allyn and Lincoln streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
——  
Setting curbing on Northampton street atinter- 
section of Laurel street—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
; ———  |

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Constructing sidewalk on East Dwight street,
Center street to Bowers street—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
——— 
Repairing sidewalk on Maple street between
Appleton and Suffolk streets—
Labor, &  
Materials,  
——  
Setting corner stone on Allen and Nonotuck
streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,  
———  
Repairing curbing on Taylor street—
Labor,   
Setting corner stone, intersection of Lincoln
and Taylor streets—
Labor,  
Materials,  
, ————  
Constructing sidewalk, west side of West street
between East Dwight and Mosher streets—- )
Labor, $ 
Setting circle stone, intersection Hampshire
and Locust streets—
Labor,  
Materials,  
, ————  
Setting corner stone, intersection Cabot and
Maple streets— .
Labor,   
Materials,  
. ———  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Setting circle stone, intersection Appleton
and High streets—
Labor, $ 
Materials,   .
———  
Setting circle stone, intersection Appleton and ,
Winter streets—
Labor, . 
Setting corner stones, Sargeant and Linden
streets— ,
Labor,  
Repairing Springfield road—
, Labor, tk  
Materials,  
———  
Miscellaneous work, repairing sewers—
Labor,
| Materials,  
———  
Removing snow from city streets and breaking
country roads—
Labor, . 
Repairing South street—
Labor,  
Materials,  
————  
. Miscellaneous work, sidewalk repairing —
Labor,  
Sanding sidewalks —
Labor,  
Materials,  
————.  
Operating snow plows—
Labor, . 
Cleaning snow from city walks—
Labor,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Cleaning snow from walks for private parties—
Labor, .  
Removing snow from streets abutting street
railway tracks—
| Labor,  .
Repairing Suffolk street —
Labor,  
Repairing Sargeant street-—
Labor,  :
Care and maintenance of city teams —
Labor,   .
Feed, shoeing and sundries,  
———  
Repairing Taylor street—
Labor, . ,
Repairing Vernon street— ,
Labor,  
Materials,  
———— :
. Repairing Valley bridge—
Labor, . 
Materials,  
———  
Grading and gravelling Willow street—
Labor, .  .
Materials,  
———— 
Constructing sewer, Walnut street, southerly
from Hampden street—
Labor, fo. 
Materials,  
———  
Miscellaneous work, city yard (repairing carts, |
tools, etc.) —
Labor, . 

{
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
BUILDING STATISTICS.

ma

Value {| Square be

NAME OF BUILDING. of Feet of and Kind. Total g
Building.| Ground |g 

 

Ze

Almshouse,  ..  acres.! Brick. |....
Appleton st school, Brick.  Back st. school, .. Wood.  
*Bath-House, .. wees re rn rn en
Bridge st. school, Brick.  
Carlton st. school, Brick.  
City Hall, ..... Granite.  
City Yards, building, Wood.  
E. Dwight st. school, Brick.  
Elmwood So st. school, Brick.  
Elmwocd engine house, Brick.  .
Emerald engine house, Brick.  
Hamilton st. school, Brick.  

. rick an
High school (new), |} PCE Be  
High school (old), Brick.  
High st. engine house, Brick.  
Highlands engine house, Brick.  
Ingleside school, Brick.  
Lyman st. school, Brick.  
Mt. Tom engine house, Brick.  
Nonotuck st. school, Brick.  
N. Chestnut st. school, Brick.  
Park st. school, Brick.  
Pest-house, ... acres Brick.  
Relief engine house, Brick.  
Sargeant st. school, Brick.  
School st. school, Brick.  
So. Chestnut st. school, Brick.  
Springdale school,. Wood.  
Springdale hose house, Wood.  
est st school,. Buff Brick.  
West Holyoke school, §,  Wood.  
Sewer land, Elmwood   ........ |.. Gravel pit,. ... wees acres ........ |.-.$ 
* Stands on leased land.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
BRIDGES. ,
| Qe; and Set
  aw -/ .
When Length Area of oP ax
Built. LOCATION OF BRIDGES. (feet). |S Olroad sq. fi..o aS Ze Bi ab
  ‘South Hadley Falls (county) a
Sspams,  Iron   Bridze street,  level canal,
Valley Mill, -| Wood  |Lyman street, Ist level canal,| Iron   |Lymao street,  level canal, te  Dwight street, Ist level canal,)   |Dwight street,  level canal,    (Appleton street, Ist level
canal, se   {Appleton street,  level
, canal, ,   |Cabot stree Ist lev-lcanal, .|   (Cabot street,  level canal,   |Sargeant street,  level
canal, “se  
Can Main street level .
canal, ss   |Willimansett, Connecticut
River, spans, foe  /|  Willimansett approach, Uf /|  (Cabot street,  level canal, .| Stone   Fout bridge, Dwight street,
over B. M. R. R., .| Iron 
|  
SCHEDULE OF CONTRACTS,  .
Name and Residence of Amount of
Date. Contractors. Contract. For What.
. Apr.  American Car Sprink- Electric car
. ler Co., Worcester.  sprinkler.
May  Beaulieu, L.T., Holyoke.  Bath house.
Dec.  Cummings Bros., Repairing roof,
Holyoke,  City Hall.
jan.  Chase, William A., gr. tons PittsHolyoke,  per gross ton, ton egg coal.
Jan.  Colby, M. C., Hol- Painting police
yoke,  office.
June  Chase, William A., loo gross tons
Holyoke,  per gross ton, George’s Ck. coal
June  Chase, William A., gr. tons PittsHolyoke,  per gross ton, ton egg coal.
June  Chase, William A., Old Company’s
Holyoke,  per gross ton, Broken Coal.
June  Colby, M. C., Hol- Painting West &
yoke,  Hamilton st.schs.

. REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
Name and Residence of Amount of
Date. Contractors. Contract.  For What.
Aug.  Cordes, F. D. Co., Painting Lyman
Holyoke,  street school.
Apr.  Detroit Graphite Co., per gallon, Bridge paint.
Detroit,  per gallon, “
Nov.  Ely Lumber Com- |
pany, Holyoke,  per feet, Bridge plank.
Mar  Gibson, T. J., Hol-  c. square yard, Newcon’te sdwk.
yoke, Rec. con’te sdwk.
 “e Driveways con’te.
Jan. Holyoke Water Power Lights per year,
Company, Holyoke,  City Hall clock.
May  Hol. Paint and Wall Painting canal
Paper Co., Holyoke,  bridge.
July  Hol. Paint and Wall Painting South
Paper Co., Holyoke,  street school.
Aug. Holyoke Motor Rep. stokers and
Works, Holyoke,  boiler grates.
June  Hampden Trap Rock
Company, Merrick, goc per ton, Trap rock.
Aug.  Hart’d Steam Boiler
Ins. and Inspection
Company, Hartford,  Insurance, boilers.
Jan.  Johannis, Robert, Iron ceilings, CarlHolyoke,  ton st. school.
Nov. Knightly, J. F., Hol- Rep.roof of Relief
yoke,  engine house.
Mar. to, Lalley, Patrick .
Sons, Boston,  Sewer carts.
  ft. curbing,
Apr.  Lyons, Geo. E. Gran- catch basin
ite Co., Brattleboro,  stones.
Dec.  Moss Safe Company,  Safe, tax collecBoston,  tor.
Aug.  Manning, M. F., Rep. steam pipHolyoke,  ing, Almshouse.
Nov.  Merrick Lumber Company, Holyoke,  per    ft. Bridge planking.
Nov.  Merrick Electric Electric lights,
Co., Middleton, High school.
Dec.  Neostyle Co., Boston,  Neostyle.
July  New England Roller Grates, Almsh’se.
Grate Company,  ‘* Park school.
Boston,  ‘‘ Appleton ‘
Jan.  Oakes, R. T. Com- Wiring City Hall
pany, Holyoke,  clock.
Sept. Oakes Company, Motor, High
Holyoke,  school.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. —
Name and Residence of Amount of
Date. Contractors. Contract. For What.
Sept. Polson, J. C., Hol- Furnace, Nonoyoke,  tuck st. school.
Dec.  Ranger, Casper, Hol- Ice house, Almsyoke,  house,
Jun.  Ranger, Casper, Hol- Flag pole, High
. yoke,  school.
Oct.  Ranger, Casper, Holyoke,  per feet Plank.
Jun.  Ranger, Casper, Hol- Platform, High
yoke,  school.
Nov.  Readsboro Chair Co., chairs, City
Readsboro, Vt.,  per chair, Hall.
Dec.  Sullivan, Carmody Plumbing Elm st.
Wesely, Holyoke,  school.
Feb.  Sullivan, Carmody Hose, City AlmsWesely, Holyoke,  house.
Dec.  Whiting, William B. George’s Cr’k
& Co., Holyoke,  per gross ton, coal, Highsch’l.
Dec.  Whiting, William B.  gross tons
& Co., Holyoke,  per gross ton, George’s Creek
coal, Almsh’se.
' Dec.  Whiting, William B. gr.tonsPacker
& Co., Holyoke,  per grosston, broken coal.
Dec.  Whiting, William B. .- gross tons
& Co., Holyoke,  per gross ton, egg coal.
Walsh Steam Boiler Repairing Main
Works, Holyoke,  street bridge.
COST MAINTENANCE STREET LIGHTS.
Electric lights, 
Gas lights, ,  
Oil lights, .  
Bridge lights (incandescent),  
Salary lamplighter,  
$ 
STATISTICS, NOVEMBER .
Number of electric arc lights,  
Number of electric incandescent bridge lights,  
Number of gas street lights,  
Number of oil street lights,  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
EXPENDITURES BY YEARS SINCE ORGANIZATION.
DEPARTMENTS.  .
Almshouse addition,   |
City hall fund,  . 
City property,  . 
Carlton and School street .
sanitaries,  
Fuel and street lights,  . 
Furnishing almshouse addition,  
Heating and ventilating Nonotuck street school,  
Highways and bridges,  . 
High school and site,  . 
High street widening,  
Paving,  
Public works, contingent,  
Sewers and drains,  . 
Sidewalks,  . 
St. Jerome ave., Charles and
Canby street extensions,  
Street watering,  
Ward school and site,  
Totals,   
We desire to thank you for the pleasant relations existing }
between us during the past year, and also desire to extend our
thanks to the other departments of the city government for their
co-operation with this Board.
Respectfully submitted,
THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS,
M. F. Watsu, Chairman,
‘ O. D. ALLyn,
G. Potvin, JR.
Holyoke, Mass., December :

é
Digitized by Google

Hotyoke, Mass., December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor of the City of Holyoke:
I have the honor to submit herewith the report of the Law
Department for the current year.
The City of Holyoke never has had, and for many years to 
, come will probably never have, as much legal business as it has had
the year past. Many cases have been finally disposed of, however,
and good progress made in the rest.
The Law Department has been greatly aided by the assistance
of other departments of the city government. desire especially ,
to thank the City Clerk, City Treasurer, City Engineer, City Messenger, and the Police Department. )
The following is brief review of the business of the year: :
Lyman Mills vs. City of Holyoke. |
The evidence has all been heard in this case and it is now
ready for argument. An early decision in this case may be
expected.
Holyoke Water Power Company vs. City of Holyoke.
Much and satisfactory progress has been made in this case.
The Water Power Company’s evidence is all in, and the city is
ready to go forward with its case. There is no reason why the
hearing of the evidence cannot be finished very soon, after which a
decision can be obtained from the Commissioners as soon as the
arguments are made.

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
CASES AGAINST KEOUGH AND HIS BONDSMEN.
BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS.

At the coming in of this administration, one of the chief problems that confronted the legal department was how to deal with the
Keough defalcation. Owing to the fact that the city failed to take
prompt and decisive action in bringing suit and attaching Mr.
Keough’s property, Mr. Keough had managed to convey it in trust
for his bondsmen. petition was, therefore, brought to have MrKeough adjudged bankrupt debtor, for the purpose of avoiding
the trust assignment. At the time this petition was brought, the

.forms in bankruptcy had not been adopted and established by the
Supreme Court of the United States, and the petition had to be
brought in accordance with forms adopted under previous act.
Consequently second petition was filed after the Supreme Court
had adopted forms under this act, in order to save any possible
question which might arise under the previous petition. The question at issue involved so much detail that the United States Court
referred the case to Mr. Charles W. Bosworth, of Springfield, as
special master, to ascertain the facts and report to the court. Sev- .
eral weeks were consumed in the hearing of this case last summer.
These cases, however, so far as the city is concerned, were terminated by the settlement below referred to. In this connection the
city owes thanks to J. Russell Company, Herman Heinritz, John
J. Prew, Lyman Company and the Holyoke Water Power Company for assistance rendered to the city by joining with and aiding

| the city in these prodings. In addition to the bank uptcy petitions, much time was consumed in preventing the sale of Mr.
Keough’s property under foreclosure or on execution. In some
instances injunctions were asked for and granted for this purpose.

CIVIL CASES IN SUPERIOR COURT.

The several cases in the Superior Court of the City of Holyoke’ vs. Keough and his bondsmen were referred to Judge William G.
Bassett, of Northampton, as an auditor, and were duly set for a
hearing. On the morning appointed the cases were ready to go on,
but were settled for the sum of sixty-five thousand dollars, the city
reserving its rights against the bankrupt estate of F. F. O’Neill.

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  
CRIMINAL CASES AGAINST J. C. KEOUGH.

Three cases were pending in the Police Court of this city
against James C. Keough at the beginning of this year. These .
cases proded to trial, and the defendant was bound over to the
Superior Court, where he is now awaiting trial. When the cases
left the Police Court of this city, the City Solicitor ceased to have
any connection with them. The District Attorney has taken hold
of the matter very vigorously, given it thorough and painstaking
investigation, and will undoubtedly see that justice is done to all
parties. :

The Mayor of the City of Holyoke vs. Kelton. ,

This was petition brought under the statute to remove Rolla
F. Kelton from his office as license commissioner. Hearing was
had in the first instance before the Mayor upon charges filed. The
Mayor found that certain of the charges were sustained by the
evidence and removed Mr. Kelton. Thereupon Mr. Kelton
appealed to the Superior Court After hearing was had, the Superior Court sustained the action of the Mayor and confirmed the
removal of the commissioner.

| Mary Ann Hamilton vs. City of Holyoke. ,

This was an action of tort for four thousand dollars to recover

; for personal injuries sustained by fall, caused by defect in the
sidewalk on the westerly side of Bridge street. After careful |
consideration, it was thought best to settle by paying the plaintiff
five hundred dollars, which was accordingly done.
City of Holyoke vs. City of North Adams.
This was an action of contract brought in  to recover for
money paid out and expenses in taking care of Mrs. Frank Pelot,
a victim of the smallpox epidemic. This was settled by the City of
North Adams paying the city of Holyoke the sum of four hundred dollars. |

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
Elmwood Sewer Abuttors vs. City of Holyoke.
These were originally thirty-three petitions brought for the
. abatement of the Elmwood sewer assessments. large number of
these cases have been ended by action of the City taken some time
ago in readjusting the assessments. few, however, are still
pending. have had no time at my disposal in which to deal with
these cases during the year past.
New England Telephone and Telegraph Company vs.
City of Holyoke.

This is an action of contract to recover  for rental of
telephones used by the City from June to October .
Nothing has been done in this case, and, as have already advised
the Board of Aldermen, see how nothing can be done so far as
the city is concerned, except to pay whenever the plaintiff in this
case gets ready to push it to an issue. The city has used the telephones and owes for them ‘The Telephone Company, on the
other hand, does not owe the city and will not until and unless it
signs the contract specified in our City Ordinances. This it has
not done as yet. The only thing the City can do, as long as the
ordinance is in force, is to refuse to grant any more extensions to
the Company until it signs the agreement therein provided.

Jennie Lee vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort to recover for injuries received by
falling on the westerly side of Maple street in this city. This case
was set for trial, and the plaintiff was non-suited.

City of Holyoke vs. Hadley Company.

This was case brought to recover for verdict of three thousand dollars and costs, obtained in by Elizabeth Chagnon
against the city of Holyoke, in an action of tort to recover for
injuries received by falling on the sidewalk on Canal street, opposite
the mills of the Company. This case was in reality tried upon
certain propositions of law. After the evidence had all been put
in, the Superior Court ruled upon these questions of law adversely
to the City and ordered verdict for the defendant. The case was
then reported to the Supreme Court under agreement that if the

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  
ruling of the Court on any of the propositions of law was correct,
the verdict should stand otherwise, the verdict should be for the
city. The Supreme Court sustained the position of the city and
judgment was entered up in November last for the sum of 
with taxable costs, which has since been paid over to the City
Treasurer. |

City of Holyoke vs. Hubbard Taber.
This was an action of contract brought to recover from Hub- |
bard Taber money paid to Ludiana Brown for injuries alleged to
have been received by falling on sidewalk in front of Hubbard &
Taber’s block, owing to defect in the sidewalk. This case was
settled upon payment of twelve hundred dollars to the City of
Holyoke by Hubbard Taber.
Pendergast vs. City of Holyoke.
In this action the city was protected by bond. Accordingly
the bondsmen were cited in to defend this case. They acknowledged their obligations, undertook the defense of the case, and it has
been disposed of without expense or loss to the city.
A. S. Kneil, Assignee, vs. City of Holyoke.
This was suit brought by A. S. Kneil of Westfield, as assignee
of the insolvent estate of H. O. Sprague Sons Company, to
recover for balance due for material and labor furnished at the
almshouse. There was no dispute in this case that certain sum
of money was due somebody. It was, however, claimed in whole 
or in part by the Buffalo Forge Company, R. M. J. Grant, Catherine
| M. Sprague and Adeline L. S. Avery, as well as by Mr. Kneil. The
city, therefore, filed an answer in interpleader, citing in all the contesting parties. They duly appeared, and the money was accordingly apportioned among them. ‘The case has been ended without
any loss or expense to the city.
Swift Brothers vs. City of Holyoke.

This was petition brought for the abatement of taxes. am
informed by the Chairman of the Board of Assessors that this case
has been disposed of by satisfactory agreement between the parties.

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
Hanlon vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort for four thousand dollars, brought to
recover for injuries sustained by falling on Dwight street opposite \
the Keough block, so called, owing to an alleged defect in the sidewalk. The owner of the adjacent premises was Mr. John J. Prew,
and he was consequently cited in to defend this case, as there
seemed to be strong probability that if the city was liable, the adjacent property-holder in this instance was liable over to the city.

| The case was adjusted by the city paying the plaintiff the sum of
one hundred and twenty-five dollars, Mr. Prew paying her like
amount.
Bridget David vs. City of Holyoke.
This was an action of tort for two thousand dollars, brought to
recover for injuries sustained by fall sustained by the plaintiff on
) High street, owing to an alleged defect in the sidewalk in front of
Blaisdell’s restaurant. The owners of the property were notified by
the city that the city would hold them liable for any damages
awarded against it. The case, was, however, settled, the city
| paying the sum of forty-two and one-half dollars and
the adjacent property-holders paying like amount,
Annie Glessman vs. City of Holyoke.

. This was an action of tort for four thousand dollars, brought to
recover for damages sustained by the plaintiff in falling through a
defective catch-basin while walking along the sidewalk and carrying
an infant in her arms. This case was settled before the Committee
on Claims by the payment of one hundred and twenty-five dollars.

John Quinn vs. City of Holyoke.
Edward Madden vs. City of Holyoke.

These cases were originally brought in the Police Court of
Holyoke. ‘They were tried in the Police Court and judgment
awarded for the defendant. Plaintiffs appealed, and the cases were
carried to the Superior Court, where they are now pending.

|
, REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR. ,
| Holden vs. City of Holyoke. |
This was petition brought to recover damages alleged to have
been sustained by the laying of the water pipes by the City of Hol- :
yoke from Russellville. The amount involved is small. ‘he case
was first heard before the County Commissioners, who awarded :
small amount to the petitioner, which the city was ready to pay,
but the petitioner appealed the case. The case came on to be
heard in the Superior Court upon the appeal. Judgment was |
entered on the County Commissioners’s award. Petitioner, how- |
ever, claimed that there had beena misunderstanding between him- |
self and his counsel and had the case reopened. It is now pending.
M. E. Cummings vs. City of Holyoke.
This was an action of contract for fifty thousand dollars for
damages plaintiff alleged he sustained by failure of the city of
Holyoke to perform its part of the agreement relative to the new
High school building. The case came up in the Superior Court
this fall and was referred to an auditor, where the matter now stands.
Lyman vs. City of Holyoke. |
Lyons et al vs. City of Holyoke.
Town of Easthampton vs. City of Holyoke.
These are petitions brought before commission composed of
the joint Board of County Commissioners for Hampden and Hampshire counties to fix damages sustained by the petitioners by the
taking of the water of the Manhan river for our new supply. Considerable time has been spent by the legal department in the preparation of these cases. They were set for trial December ,
but had to be postponed, owing to the illness of Mr. Brainerd, the |
 chairman of the joint commission.
| Gauthier vs. City of Holyoke. |
This was case brought to recover for rent alleged to be due
plaintiff by the city for the use of premises during the smallpox
epidemic few years ago. The case was brought in the polic court
of Holyoke, and owing to the fact that had been at one time coun- |
sel for plaintiff in case allied to this, Mr. John Hildreth was

 REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
retained to look after the city’s interests. The plaintiff obtained a
small verdict of thirty dollars, which has been paid.

Certain mechanic’s lien cases brought by John Quinn, Edward
Madden and Timothy J. Keefe and others, for labor and materials
furnished for the High school building, were pending at the beginning of the year. These cases have all been dismissed, decision
of our Supreme Court, recently rendered, having decided that a
mechanic’s lien will not lie against municipal building.

THE FOLLOWING CASES ARE NOW PENDING.

George Richards vs. City of Holyoke.
Elsie M. Little vs. City of Holyoke.
Henry Bogart vs. City of Holyoke. ,
J. Russell et als vs. City of Holyoke.
Frank Rivers vs. City of Holyoke.

The total damages paid by the legal department upon verdict
Or upon settlement of actions against the city has been ,
while the department has collected for the City This is,
of course, exclusive of the Keough case.

In conclusion, earnestly recommend that one officer be
assigned by the Police Department to look up evidence in personal
injury cases for the City. During the past year, have been
greatly assisted by Officer Bligh, who has performed this work to a
great extent. suggest that this be made part of his permanent
duty and that he be continued in it from year to year. This is
work where experience counts for great deal, and it will not take
an officer very long to acquire the general principles of law involved
in these cases, so that he will understand the exact line of evidence
to be obtained. Immediately upon the happening of an accident,
the evidence should be carefully looked up. Everything ascertained should then be reduced to writing and filed with the papers
of the case. proper attention to this matter will save the City
many thousands of dollars.

Respectfully submitted,
A. L. GREEN, City Solicitor.

o
OF THE
D Pp |
OF THE
FOR THE
ARIA ET
gehen, at ONY.
 om Ea
P reagan
A gee AE
VAS HOLY ORETAY
OS “ie'so- XK
Chine OF
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING Co.
 ,

Digitized by Google

| f
OF THE City oF HOLYOKE,  .
OrricE Crry MARSHAL,
HotyoxkE, Mass., December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke. |
GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the City ordinances, have
the honor herewith to submit for your consideration the annual
report of this department, for the year ending November .
ORGANIZATION.

“ The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal,
Captain, Lieutenant, Matron and forty-two Patrolmen, two of whom
are doing special duty. |

ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  .
Names. Date of Appointment. ;

Marshal, J. Sidney Wright, January |
Assistant Marshal, Patrick Herbert, January .
Captain, Timothy Haley, February .
Lieutenant, Patrick E. Sullivan, January .

Special Duty—Dennis Mack, Thomas E. Bligh.

Matron— Mrs. Kate Moynihan. »

  REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
Day AND NIGHT PATROLMEN.
No. Name. Date of Appointment.
  Michael Shine, April .
  Richard Peters, January .
  Dennis Mack, May .
  Thomas F. Riley, January .
- John A. Davis, June .
  Henry J. Campbell, January .
  Wiiliam E. Blackmer, January .
  Michael J. Lynch, January .
g Frank M. Priest January .
to Cornelius J. Louney, January .
  George L. Dickinson, February .
  Henry W. Chamberlain, February .
  Patrick F. Ryan, january .
  Frank J. Gallagher, January .
  William F. Quirk, January .
  Francis M. Hastings, January .
 John A. Powers, January .
  John A. Geran, January .
  Cornelius Curran, February .
  Peter A. Cullen, February .
‘  James B. Griffin, February .
  Patrick P. O’Sullivan, February .
|  John J. Moriarty, February .
  Jeremiah J. Linehan, February .
.  Patrick J. Reardon, February .
  John Leary, .. May .
  John W. Vaugh, June .
  John A. Vachon,. June .
  Thomas E. Bligh, February .
 .. George P. Buckley, .- .- February .
 William P. Cummings, September .
  James T. Donoghue,  June .
 James F.Greaney, June .
- Rock H. Lalonde, June .
  Maurice M. O’Connor, .. June .

REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.  
No. Name. Date of Appointment.

, Thomas Bresnahan, ...... June .
  Charles P. Kehl, December .
  Maurice H. Shine, August .

  Matthew McClellan, August ;
  Henry M. Fisher,  August —
, Daniel C. McCarthy,. .. September .
  ArthurN.Judd, ...... March .
STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
. SUMMARY. .
Total number of arrests,  .,.   
Males, oe  
Females, .  
ARRESTS WERE FOR THE FOLLOWING OFFENSES:
Totals
Assault, .  
Assault with intent to ravish, I
Assault on an officer,  
Abuse of female child, .- I
Adultery, ,  
Attempt to rescue prisoner, oe I
Attempt to break and enter, I
Arson, .  
Breaking and entering,  
Breach of the peace,  
Being present at cock fight,  
’ Bastardy, to,  
Cruelty toanimals, ok  
Disturbing public school, I
Drunkenness, .  
Embezzlement, .  
Fornication, ,  
False pretense, . I
Indecent exposure, .  
Keeping house of ill-fame,  

  REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.

Totals

Keeping disorderly house,  
Keeping unlicensed pool room,  
Larceny, .  
Malicious mischief, .  
Neglected child, .  

| Non-support, .  
Peddling without license,  
Peddling milk without license,  

, Riding bicycle faster than ten miles an hour,  
Refusing to give information to Agt. of School Committee, I
Receiving stolen goods,  
Selling adulterated milk,  
Selling milk without license,  
Stoning railroad car, .. we I
Sureties of the peace, I
Stubborn child, ;  
Truancy, .  
Trespass, . I
Unlawfully removing baggage, I
Unlawful sale of oleomargarine, I
Unlawfully keeping oleomargarine,  
Unlawfully removing collar from licensed dog, I
Unlawfully taking team,  
Violation City ordinance,  
Violation of rules of Board of Health,  
Violation of  -hour labor law,  

, Violation of liquor law,  
Vagrancy, .  Walking on railroad track,  .
 

\
REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.  
| CLASSIFICATION OF ARRESTS BY MONTHS.
j -}. |
oBalaleileioa e\|  le
AHMAR HEAAEE ,
 pa bn Sa aa so ae so  —
Slalslelal| el oimlalslale! S
O/SISl slkI/SIElslis|alss 
dle /g/E/  f/  lglg]  
/ !
Assault,  /}  
Assault with intent to ravish,  
Assault on an officer,  
Abuse of female child,  
Adultery, 
Attempt to rescug prisoner,.  
Attempt to break and enter,  
Arson,  
Breaking and entering, LY  By 
Breach of peace,   
Being present at cock fight,  
Bastardy,  
Cruelty to animals,  
Disturbing public school,  
Drunkeuness,   )  
Embezzlement,  
Fornication,   
False pretense,  
Indecent exposure,  
Keeping house of ill-fame,  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Keeping unlicensed pool-room, 
Larceny, Sat / 
| Malicious mischief, F/ 
Neglected child,   
Non-support, tlt Li Dy)  
i Peddling without license, BS  
Peddling milk without license,  
Riding bicycle faster miles hour, 
Refusing information agt.school com.  
Receiving stolen goods, ... 
Selling adulterated milk,  
‘Selling milk without license, Eo 
Stoning railroad car,  
| Sureties of the peace,  
| Stubbornechild,   
TeIaNeN, sfc koaSi). Ta Bi 
Trespass,  
Unlawfully removing baggage,  
Unlawful sale of oleomargarine,  
Unlawfully keeping oleomargarine,  
essex he collar from licensed dog,  
Unlawfully taking team,  
Violation city ordinance,   
Violation rules Board of Health,  
Violation hour labor law,  
Violation of liquor law, ..  S)  ).  
Vagrancy, Ewe ne  
Walking on railroad track,.   
ee Pa! Nett (EA U t| (Kees bom oy come cies ae! here! gees
  sai sta  
|
Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED. |

America, ,  
Austria, re  
Arabia, - I
Bohemia, we  
Belgium, , I
Canada, .  
England,   oe  
France, . I
Germany, .  
Hungary, , I
Ireland, .  
Italy, .  
Newfoundland, .  
Nova Scotia, . I
Poland, .  
Russia, .  
Roumania, . I
Scotland, oe  
Sweden, . 
Wales, .  

Oo  

REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.  :
a NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED BY MONTHS. |
Se  be wm ee
safes  
America,  
Arabia, I
Austria,  
Bohemia,  
Belgium, I
Canada, YI   g-  
England,   
France, I
“Germany,  
Hungary, I
Ireland, I§ # 
Italy,  
Newfoundland,  
Nova Scotia, I
Poland, 
Russia, +'! 
Roumania, I
Scotland,   
‘Sweden, “It  
‘Wales,  
IOI   III 
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Fined and paid, .  
Committed to House of Correction,  
‘Committed to House of Correction for non-payment of fine,  
‘Committed to Massachusetts Reformatory,  
‘Committed to Lyman School for Boys,  
Committed to Lancaster Industrial Institute,  I
,; ‘Committed to Reformatory Prison for Women,  
Bound over to Superior Court,  
Discharged, .  
Probated and discharged,  
Filed away,   
‘Committed to Truant School,  
‘Committed to State Board of Charity,  
Appealed, ote  
, 

 REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
- tw OE ot  SOS IIR SDH HOO
  SBESERE g@ BRSeegeresesen |
oe 
PR SRAZBrS PS GRTTPHR
Ze |
—— eS  
 mS"  |! ZB, SRTRTSSTN TR |
&   |
ee nF Ss ——
€  SxiseGR  SRS SF |
g  Be |
a SRTS ass oS +—@®B-enR” .!
ie  ESRerZ we ERTS Sea
  er SZ |
se en
ZR SRASZER  SACRVRTT SISA
fe SSShuee ge) SarEe ao es
ge 
: im |
a er
me SE EEREea
xX dp) oe)
hen an ,
re BRP SRSS xe BRO se ne
Bg Be |
oa YS Oe
; || eB Seeasre ge  So ma (Ss  ee
| |e esa eg Sae"E :
Z, am  Se |
ON AT” Nee aAeoe”. OS
a OR  !
ae eROW OAS ra Eo hook
 || gB Be Sens ae Bg BART
 An
FQ   nee
  (xy   |
 oe) ae    oe |
 I
| |
es  e@ ‘a eo @
— op) Q
  jen  e
 ex a
Q nm,
.  je) are ao)
DN A, fe
ee)  ry dp)  .
 mR  
q |!
S  mM  “A |
\ fx} Me)
wa bo Pa |
 ry  Bol  "s SA
A e
'fQ oo
FE o's  Sans
  sa
 --  pros
a k
os Prog tS rp) al N® |
q eo e& Ou -a |
zm es  
e  oe? Qu  -So ‘Sg -"O OLD HW]
She
Pete. py Sees asg
: rs  an th Gc cs
  POBVeswesoe
"sng: seBwsoseosa 
ood, ea Oe md ont mt ope comd come Ut
! agseves mESSVESRESSERS
Steves DELOSESQERHESE COZ DESHT SSE BZ Ssaseao |
Senda mBORMANODOMOGZOOOO

REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.  
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY THE POLICE.
Number of children found and restored to parents,  
Number of lodgers accommodated,  
Number of meals furnished to prisoners,  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured,  
Number of dead bodies found,  
Number of fire alarms given,  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms,  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported,  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted,  
Number of stray teams taken up,  
Number of street lamps reported not lighted,  
Number of persons arrested for other cities or towns,  
Number of search warrants for liquors served,  
Number of bicycles found and returned to owners,  
Number of safes found open,  
Number of dogs shot,  
Number of defective sidewalks reported,  
Number of defective catch-basins reported,  
Number of gallons of spirituous and malt liquors seized,  
Number of insane persons cared for,  
Number of notices served,  
Value of property reported stolen, 
Value of property recovered,  
Amount of money reported stolen,  
Amount of money recovered,  
Number of teams reported stolen,  
All of these recovered.

The amount of property reported stolen from Val Moquin’s
house was cash  and jewelry valued at No trace of the
guilty ones was ever received, although diligent search was made.

Mrs. Kate Gordon reported stolen about  in gold and
jewelry valued at The thief was caught and now awaits
sentence.

 REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
. FINANCIAL REPORT.
| RECEIPTS.
Appropriation,
Fines from Police Court,.  
Fines paid after commitment,  
Town of South Hadley,  
, ——— 
: EXPENDITURES.
Payroll, $ 
Miscellaneous expenses,  
Special payroll, ..  
Balance unexpended, 
| ITEMS.
Appropriation, , 
Estimated receipts from all sources,  
, ——  
Payroll, regular force,  
Estimate of all other expenses,  
. 
For THE YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
Number women in charge,  
Number of women arrested,  
Offenses with which they were charged are as follows:
Adultery, . I
Assault, .  
Drunkenness, . :
Fornication, .  
, —— ™

REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Keeping house of ill-fame,  
Larceny, .  
Neglected children,  
Refusing information to Truant Officers, I
Selling oleomargarine, I
Stubborn child, to. I
Vagrancy,  
me  
Insane, . 
Lodgers, ..  
|  
Women placed on probation, ..  
Women sent to Sherborn Reformatory,  
Girls sent to Lancaster Industrial School for Girls,  
Girls sent to the “House of the Good Shepherd”’ in
Springfield,  
Oldest person arrested, years.
Youngest person arrested, years.
Oldest person in charge,  years.
Youngest person in charge, oe -§ weeks.
All night duty, oe  

The work in this department does not vary much from year to
year. Drunkenness claims the largest number of victims, and many
of the names recorded for this offense are familiar to us all. There
is some encouragement in the fact that the number of women
arrested does not ‘increase, being much smaller than in
former years.

Several disreputable places have been broken up during the
year. Two of the proprietors are serving long sentences in jail ;
Others have left the city.

We do not bring many young girls before the Court. The
majority are brought in for protection and detained until their
parents or friends take them in charge. If they have no friends, I
try to find them suitable place.

We have had sixteen lodgers during the year. These are

  REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.

usually women who are traveling from place to place seeking
employment. They are, with few exceptions, poorly clad and —
think if charitably disposed persons could realize the condition of
those women, and others who come under the Matron’s care, they
would willingly assist her by donations of clothing, shoes, etc.
There are few ladies who send me something each year, and I
take this opportunity of thanking them.

I have received the same courteous treatment from the superior
officers and members of the force, and thank them for their
kindly assistance and co-operation in my work.

Respectfully,
MRS. KATE MOYNIHAN, Police Matron.
LOCATION OF BOXES OF POLICE SIGNAL SYSTEM.

Circuit  Box No.
Northampton and Hampden, I
Nonotuck and Lincoln, , 
West Dwight and Pleasant,  
Appleton and Pine, .  
High and Suffolk,  

Circuit  Box No.
South and Northampton,  
Laurel and Brownavenue,  
Sargeant and High, .  
Cabot and High, .  
Cabot and Oak, .  

Circuit  Box No.
Adams and Park, too LI
Main and Sargeant, .  
Main and Cabdt, ,  
Cabot and Bridge,  
Main and Appleton, .  

Circuit  Box No.
Dwight and Main, .  
Bridge and Ely, Lo  
Ely and Bowers,   
East Dwight and West,  

REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.  
Circuit  Oo Box No.
Chestnut and Lyman, .  
High and Lyman, .  
High and Hampden, .  
Hampden and Elm, .  
Oliver and Front, .  
Walnut and Dwight .  
Duty calls from November to November  
Wagon calls, .  
CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.

During the year the following changes have taken place in the
force :

January Richard Peters was appointed lieutenant, and
after hearing on March  was reduced to the ranks.

| March  Patrick E. Sullivan was appointed lieutenant, which
position he now holds.

Timothy F. Moriarty, who was on probation, failing to meet the
approval of his Honor the Mayor, on March was dropped from
the force. ‘

On March  Arthur N. Judd was appointed, and on October
  his appointment was confirmed.

DETECTIVE DEPARTMENT.

The work of this department has been done under the supervision of Assistant Marshal Herbert, assisted by Dennis Mack and

) Thomas E. Bligh, with that skill and energy for which they have
become noted, working night as well as day, when it has been
required. Neither time nor distance has prevented the pursuit of
criminals, several having been brought back from other cities and
punished for their offenses. ‘They have rendered valuable services,
and am convinced that this branch of the department is in the
hands of good officers.

DEPORTMENT.

The deportment of the department has been good. There are
a great many who do not appreciate the work performed by this
department. They do not realize what is required of an officer in

  ‘REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
the performance of his duty. He is expected to patrol his beat
day or night, in the severest storm and cold, also in the heat of
summer, and attend to many duties of which the public knows nothing. From no other department is so much expected, and so much
encouragement needed from law-abiding citizens. |
, MORALS OF THE CITY. a

| There has been slight increase in arrests over last year, but
the city as whole has been remarkable for its good order and freedom from what is considered the heavier class of crime. This has.
been particularly noticeable on numerous occasions, when processions and other attractions have called out large numbers of our
citizens, at which times there have been no riotous or boisterous
prodings, calling for police interference. This was noticeable on
the occasion of the parade given in honor of President McKinley,
when there was not one single arrest made during the parade. I
think this speaks well for the orderly conduct of our city, and was
commented on by people from other cities. |

We received letter from the Business Men’s Association, complimenting the department on the good order maintained during
the time the President was guest of our city, and for this we are
truly grateful. .

IMPROVEMENTS.
SIGNAL SYSTEM.

The police signal system has been in operation since November  and the manager of the Telephone Company has improved
the same, so that now it is in good condition and running well, and
from continual experience every day shows greater benefit to the

department. It will enable an officer to remain on. his beat, for
when he makes an arrest he will call the patrol wagon from his box
instead of going to the station with his prisoner. It puts every
officer in direct communication with police headquarters, and he
may at any time report anything of suspicious nature that comes.
under his observation. It places the officer in charge at the station
in direct communication with his men, so he may give them orders
from time to time during the hours of their patrol. In handling.

REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.  
prisoners, much trouble and inhumanity are avoided, and the public
saved from witnessing many sights which offend the sensibilities of
our wives and children, and arouse the derision of the worst classes.

There are at present twenty-five boxes, and the total cost of
putting in and maintaining the same for one year is .

\ There has also been added for the department’s use patrol
wagon, built by M. J. Bowler. It is an up-to-date job and gives
credit to the builder. This is an improvement which the officers
and the public both appreciate. Attached to the wagon is swinging harness made by John T. Hunter, which is also credit to him.
The wagon at present is at M. J. Laport’s stable, where night
man is employed. This arrangement so far has been very
satisfactory. }

There have also been added for the department’s use two
bicycles, which have been put to good use.

Some improvements have been made at the station during the
year, but the entire floor, or new building, is needed for the depart- |
ment. The janitor does his best to keep the station in clean and
healthy condition.  

RECOMMENDATIONS.
[would respectfully recommend for the consideration of the
incoming city government the following :

That some proper means of ventilation be provided the cellroom. As it is now, it is source of great annoyance.

That some action be taken in reference to the tramp-room. As
it is now, the odor from it scents the whole station.

That the padded cell be placed in proper condition, and the
room be fixed up for detention room. As it is now, we have no
place for boys except in the cells.

That the force be increased by the addition of three patrolmen ;
one for duty in the office nights, and one each for the Highlands
and Elmwood days. There is continual complaint from these sections of the city, which we are unable to cover with our present
force.

That the department have four more bicycles added for their
use, for an officer can cover more territory, and in the summer
months this is great advantage.

  REPORT OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

The representatives of the press, whose duty calls them to the
station, have been courteous and considerate, obtaining their information in an honorable way, and invariably withholding the publication of matter concerning this department, when requested to do
so by those in authority. }

I desire to acknowledge my obligations to Assistant Marshal
Patrick Herbert, Captain Timothy Haley, Lieutenant Patrick E.
Sullivan, Dennis Mack and Thomas E. Bligh, as well as the rank
and file of this department, who have so ably sustained me in discharging the duties of my office.

; To the Matron desire to extend my thanks for the many kind
acts during the year. detailed account of her work will be found
elsewhere, while it does not by any means include all the work
done by her many are the kind words of advice and generous help
given by Mrs. Kate Moynihan which the public knows nothing. of.
In her the department, as well as the public, have servant
of whom we may justly feel proud.

| CONCLUSION.
During the time that have had charge of this department, I
' have tried to be impartial in the management of the force and in
the execution of the laws and ordinances.

I am pleased to be able to report that the discipline of the
department has been good. Its workings have been in harmony,
and the officers have shown an honest and faithful purpose in the
discharge of their duties.

I wish to extend my sincere thanks to his Honor, Mayor Arthur
B. Chapin, for the prompt and hearty support he has given me in
fulfilling the duties of my office.

I also extend my thanks to Hon. Edward W. Chapin, Justice,
and Thomas J. Tierney, Clerk, respectively, of the Police Court, as

| well as all other city officials for the many courtesies shown me.
Respectfully submitted,

J.S. WRIGHT,

. Marshal.

REPORT OF THE CITY PHYSICIAN.

,  OFFICE oF Crry Puysician, December .

To his Honor, the Mayor, and Gentlemen of the Board of

Aldermen: .

The following is respectfully submitted as the report of the
‘City Physician from November to December The
general health of the city throughout, during the past year, has been
-especially good, but nevertheless the amount and character of work
done in this department has not changed to any appreciable extent
from that done in preceding year. cannot definitely state the
number of calls made on outside poor during the year, but attended over seven hundred families, and, as usual, in the great number of the cases which was called upon to treat, many were suffering from chronic diseases for which very little could be accomplished in the way of cure. Consumption, in particular, has been
making great progress among them, forI have attended no less than
forty cases of that disease this year, and of that number twelve have
died. While many of those attacked by the disease had inherited
‘the tendency, and consequently rendered easy prey, others, although
possessed formerly of robust physique, by privation have been
reduced to condition whereby the malady easily took hold of the
victim and rapidly flourished. In my last report made references
‘to the Consumptive State Hospital, located at Rutland, Mass., and
suggested that our cases be sent there for treatment; but not one,
out of the whole number of cases treated by me, could be selected
as fit subject.for the above institution. In every instance, the ,
disease had progressed to the incurable stage when first seen. I
then tried to persuade them to go to the hospital at City Farm, so

  REPORT OF THE CITY PHYSICIAN.

that they could receive treatment special to their disease, but only
a very few could be induced to go there. But it is remarkable to
note what great improvement has been accomplished, in comparatively short time, in the cases that did go out there. attended
twenty women in confinement during the year; six of which cases
occurred at City Farm. responded to all calls from police station ;
examined eight applicants for police service and vaccinated and
signed certificates of vaccination for school children and mill operatives to the number of about twelve hundred. It is surprising, the |
large number of children which are sent to the City Physician for
free vaccination, whose parents can well afford to pay for it.

Strange as it may seem, considering our recent epidemic, did
not meet during the year with single case of diphtheria among the
city’s charges, and was able to report only one case of measles and

‘one of scarlet fever among them, and these were women. The one
suffering from measles recovered rapidly, but the scarlet fever
patient died, having contracted the disease while convalescing from
a childbirth. The first and only occasion have had to make use of
the pest house was last May. During the month was called toa
Polish woman on Oliver street, who had been ill for some days with
facial erysipelas, without medical attendance, and her friends had
deserted her and, from fear of contracting the disease, refused to go
near her. The City Almoner and myself endeavored to procure a
nurse to care for her constantly, but were unable to get one, and, as
fa last resort, found it necessary to remove her to the pest house,
where she died in few days.

In our institution at City Farm the city should take especial
pride, and upon its management too much praise cannot be
bestowed for the good work done there. The heads of the various
departments have given their whole attention to the work allotted
them, and provided in every possible manner for the best welfare
of their charges. feel particularly grateful to Miss Perry and Mr.
Lapper, nurses at the hospital, for their diligence and the excellent
treatment given the patients under their charge.

From an economical standpoint, the City Farm Hospital has
proved to be grand success, and the following is the report of that
department for the year ending November .

REPORT OF THE CITY PHYSICIAN.  
Total number of patients treated :
Male, 
Female, »  
Total, I
Of this number were removed there from the city—remainder were inmates of City Farm transferred to Hospital. The
duration of stayin Hospital of above number aggregates  
weeks, an average of about weeks per patient.
The diseases of patients may be classified as follows .
Pulmonary Tuberculosis,  ‘Tuberculosis of Knee Joint, I
‘Tubercular Abscesses,  .  
Maternity, . a.
General Debility, .  
Chronic Articular Rheumatism,  
Chronic Nephritis, .  
Cardiac Disease,  
Varicose Ulcers, .  
Epilepsy, .  
Chronic Alcoholism, .  
Goitre, ,  
Diabetes, .  
Anzemia, tk  
‘Chronic Bronchitis, .  
Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, I
Syphilis, . T
Insanity, . I
Neurasthenia, . I
Aneurism of Aorta, . I
Chronic Spinal Meningitis, I
Chronic Poliomyelitis, I
Abdominal Sinus, . I
Hysteria, . I
Spastic Paralysis, . I
Paralysis Agitaus, I
Disseminated Sclerosis, I

  REPORT OF THE CITY PHYSICIAN.
Scalp Wound, . I
Lacerated Wound of Knee, I
Colle’s Fracture, . I
Intermittent Fever, . I
Enlarged Prostate, . I.
Acute Pleurisy, . I
Erythema, woe I
Chronic Gastritis, . I
Facial Erysipelas, . I
Incontinence of Urine, I
Vulvovaginal Abscess, I
Ischiorectal Abscess, . I
The results of treatment in these cases are as follows :
Cured, . .
Improved, .  
Not mproved, .  
Died, .  
The deaths were: ,
Males,
Females, .  
Causes of Death:
Pulmonary Tuberculosis,  
Cardiac Disease, .  .
Chronic Nephritis, . I
Disseminated Sclerosis, I
Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, I
Epilepsy, . I
The number of patients under hospital treatment on November
  were  :

Males, .  
Females, .  
Respectfully submitted,

J. J. McCABE,
City Physician. 

‘
, REPORT OF THE
, Ho yoke, Mass., December .
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the City Council of Holyoke:
The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund for the payment of ,
- municipal bonds respectfully submit the following report :
Amount of the fund reported December
    
RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR.
Amounts on account of appropriations by
the City Council. )
September .  
October   
November   
November ,. +. —
————— 
Dividends on bank stock and interest on
city bonds, -. 
Interest on real estate loans,  
Interest on deposits with National banks,  
————  
Gross amount of fund and receipts, 

  REPORT OF THE SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
September paid to city treasurer
amount to meet years per cent
municipal bonds, due October 
Amount taken from premium account and
charged to interest account,  
, ———- 
Net amount of fund this date, 
INVESTED AS FOLLOWS:
Loans on real estate, —.. 
Bank stocks—  shares—par value,  
Municipal bonds due in   
Municipal bonds due in   
Municipal bonds due in   
Cash deposited with National banks on interest,  
Balance of premium account for premiums
paid on bonds and bank stocks,  
—————  
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE W. PRENTISS,
LEMUEL SEARS,
Commissioners of Sinking Fund.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS

The use of the several parks of the city has largely increased
in the past season, and your Board of Commissioners are convinced
that the time has arrived when an effort should be made to increase
the number of the parks in the different sections of the city and
thus afford better facilities for our citizens to enjoy summer evenings in the open air, without being obliged to go far from their
homes to do so.

The Commissioners not having as large an appropriation as was
needed for the work that should have been done the past season,
have been obliged to leave many things undone they had planned,
at the close of last year, to attend to this year. |

The Commissioners procured some new seats the beginning of
the year, and distributed them amongst the various parks where
they seemed to be absolutely needed but many more will need to
be purchased the ensuing year, as many of the vld seats have been
in use long time and, being of wood, have rotted away and are
fast becoming unsafe.

The need of sanitaries on some of the parks has been brought’
to the attention of your Board, and they have thought it advisable
to recommend the construction of one on Prospect park, and one
on Hampden park, similar to ones in use in other cities of the
Commonwealth.

The Commissioners were obliged to expend quite sum of
money for grading and walks at Elmwood park, owing to the grading
of Jackson street by the Water Power Company although not doing

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.

as much as really ought to be done, still used money that was
intended for other work, and in consequence could do none of the
permanent work planned for other parks.

The concrete walks at Canonchet park have not been laid, but
should be attended to the coming year. This improvement is badly
needed at this park.

This park needs some new seats, as there are but few seats on

this park at present. :

At Prospect park the past year the Board has done but little
beyond the necessary repairs. :

With the appropriation provided by the Board of Aldermen a
band stand has been erected, but the several band-masters show .
great reluctance to make use of the same unless they receive compensation. The Commissioners would express their thanks to the
band for the concerts they so kindly gave during the past summer.

The Commissioners think perhaps an appropriation of two
hundred and fifty or three hundred dollars for concerts the coming
season, at this park, would be money well expended, and would
afford much gratification to many of our citizens.

This park needs number of new seats, and the walks need
repairing and perhaps one new one constructed.

The necessity for larger ice water tank and house at Hampden park has again been demonstrated the past season, and the
Board think it will be necessary the coming season to build larger
one, and in that case will remove the present one to Cononchet park.

The Board desire this year to place few permanent flowering
shrubs on this park, with the idea of adding to them as time shall
show the advisability of doing.

At Hamilton park the concrete walks need repairing, and many
of them recovering also some new seats are needed at this park.
| The trees at Germania park have grown so large, and shaded
the grass so much, as to nearly kill it; so the Board have had one
row of trees removed, and will reseed this park and practically

make it over new. The board would call the attention to the fact
that there is no curbing along the street next this park, and it is
impossible to keep the grass growing in the tree belt, and would sug- gest the advisability of laying curbing on the street next this park.

At Elmwood park large amount of grading has been done

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  along Jackson street most of the tree belt has been seeded down ;.
a walk has been built almost to Bh street, and quite large plot
fronting on Jackson street has been graded and seeded down.

It will be necessary the coming season, to continue work
already started, in order to get the park into shape for the enjoyment of our citizens as soon as possible.

The Commissioners have had plan prepared by the City Engineer showing the possibilities of this park, if the plan can be fol-.
lowed and have had numerous applications from outside landscape
architects, for the privilege of submitting plans or sketches, for the
beautifying of this park; they all unite in saying this park has natural advantages for making one of the most beautiful parks in the
New England states.

In case the city wishes to have the Board of Health make use
of this park as in the past, it will be necessary to provide for extending the culvert in the near future.

It seems to this Board that an effort should be made at once to
secure piece of land to the west of this park, so as to connect
with the land belonging to the City Hospital, thus enlarging, the
boundaries of the park, and perhaps at some time in the near future
extending it west to Northampton street.

This would make park of which the citizens could be proud,
and which few cities in the east could equal.

The two or three smaller parks in the various parts of the city
need flowers and flowering shrubs.

The one at Elmwood, if the lot adjoining could be secured and
added to it, would make very handsome little resting place, by the
addition of few flowers and shrubs, and would be much appreciated by the citizens of that section.

Owing to the large amount of work necessary to be done on
the parks the ensuing year, the Board would ask for an appropriation for the regular work on the parks of ten thousand dollars
($ ).

For continuing the work at Elmwood park, the Board would
ask for separate appropriation of five thousand dollars ($ ).

  REPORT OF ‘PARK COMMISSIONERS.
FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR  .
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation, including amount for Band Stand, 
From Board of Public Works,  
Received for hay sold,  
Transfers,  
——— 
’ EXPENDITURES.
Hampden Park,  
Prospect Park,  
Elmwood Park,  
Canonchet Park,  
Germania Park,  
Hamilton Park,  
General Expenses,  
—— 
JOHN McNAIRN, Chairman,
E. H. FRIEDRICH,
JAMES CONNOR,
ANTOINE MARCOTTE,
CHARLES E. MACKINTOSH.

ANNUAL REPORT
, OF THE ,
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASS.
FOR
YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
Cro  
oe
| CZF,
Catcey
‘MINE 
HOLYOKE, MASS.:
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING Co.
 ,

Digitized by Google

SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES |
FroM DECEMBER TO NOVEMBER .
, 
| ALMSHOUSE ADDITION.
Balance December .. 
Balance November wo  
ASSESSORS’ DEPARTMENT.
Appropriation,
‘Transfer from,   ,
Expenditures (see report Board of Assessors),.  —
) BOARD OF HEALTH.
| Appropriation, $ 
Balance December  
Receipts, .  
Additional appropriation,  
$ 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report Board of Health), -. 

— REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
BILLS PAYABLE.
Appropriation, $ 
Expenditures (see Treasurer’s report),  
CITY ENGINEERING. ,
Appropriation, $ 
Transfer from, ;  
Expenditures (see report City Engineer), 
CITY HALL FUND.
Balance December . 
Receipts, .  
. 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
Balance November  $  
CITY PROPERTY.
Appropriation, - 
Receipts, .  
| 
Transfer from,  
Expenditures (see report of Public Works),  
CONTINGENT.
Appropriation, $ 
Balance December .  
Receipts,  
Additional appropriation,  
$ 
Transfer from,  
Expenditures, $ 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
EXPENDITURES ITEMIZED.
Lyman MILLs CASE.
E. A. Brigham, expenses, 
B.C. Brainerd,  
John Cumnock,  
M. E. Cummings,  
A. F. Knight,   
T. W. Mann,  
F. A. Rivers,  
C. E. Scribner,  
————  
MunicipaL LIGHTING CASE.
J. J. Kirkpatrick,  
Nathan Matthews,  
R. S. Warner,  
C. T. Callahan, telephone tolls,  
| ——— 
KEOUGH CASE.
N. P. Avery, securing claims, 
George R. Wentworth, judgment creditor,  
E. M. Estes, auditing,  
D. W. Kenney, postage, typewriting,  
E. B. Miles, clerical service,  
V. J. O’Donnell, deputy fees,  
E. L. Parker, expert services,  
Annie H. Parfitt, clerical services,  
Ellen M: Ramsdell, clericalservices,  
William C. Gates,  
———  
William P. Buckley, Atty. Claim Hamilton vs. City,  
W. S. Haywood, ‘‘ Gauthier vs. City,  
Callahan Sullivan, ‘‘ Hampden vs. City,  
M. J. Griffin, Glesmann vs. City,  
P. F. Carmody, damages, Carmody vs. City,  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
S. T. Miller, execution, Crabb vs. City, 
Kilpatrick Post, G. A. R., appropriation,  
Business Men’s Association appropriation per T. J.
Carmody, .  
L. M. Reardon, clerical assistance and typewriting,  
William F. Salisbury, burial agent, burial under Veteran act, burial of Foss, Carpenter, D’Arsino,
Charles Quint, Hezekial Thompson, Louis Sans
- Souci, H. Ernest,  
Frank Cahill, burial agent, burial of John Sullivan,  
A. L. Codaire, burial soldiers Cuban war,  
| E. L. Shaw, flowers, soldiers’ funeral,  
E. A. Kane, recording births,  
Carroll, McClintock Stapleton, legal services,  
Storey, Thorndike, Palmer, legal services,  
Dr. Louis H. Clarke, witness fees,  
Dr. F. Cloutier, witness fees, ..  
J. N. Sickman, witness fees,  
A. L. Green, city solicitor, sundry expenses incurred
, in litigation,  
Park Commissioners, money appropriated by city
government, 
New England Telephone and Telegraph Company,
tolls, Lo  
Ballard Kirchbaum, telephone index,  
Pierre Bonvouloir, traveling expenses, express charges,  Bogart Vigneault, traveling expenses to Cuba,  
C. T. Callahan, traveling expenses to Boston,  
Capt. William J. Crosier, traveling expenses to Cuba,  
A. B. Chapin, traveling expenses,  
| James K. Morrill, milk inspector, rent and sundries,  
A. F. Glesmann, laboratory supplies,  
Hatch Experiment Company, chemical tests, analysis, .
etc., .  
Parsons Paper Company, rent and paper,  
Adams, Cushing Foster, ink,  
Carter’s Ink Company, ink,  
Greenough, Adams Cushing, ink,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Hubbard Taber, ink and inkwells,  
C. J. Bresnahan, stationery,  
Fitzgerald Co., stationery,  
J. B. Benson, check protector, ar  
W. J. Cady, photos,  
Demers Sons, photos,  
J. H. Caswell, photos,  
Steiger Co., cloth,  
Dickieson Co., cloth,   —
Eureka Ruling and Binding Company, blank books,  
J. C. Lutz Lithograph Company, blank books,  
National Blank Book Company, blank books,  
F. S. Blanchard Company, Massachusetts Year Books,  
E. M. Calhoun, volume Revenue Laws,  
D. L. Farr, stamps, typewriting, etc.,  
Goodall Drug Company, pens, soap, etc.,  
George H. Hill, rubber stamps, Morgan Crossman Company, rubber stamps,  
Holyoke Book Bindery, binding books, ,
Herman Strates Sons, liquid measures,  
Hector Mondor, cleaning weights, etc.,  
Priest, Page Co., test weights, 
Holyoke Street Railway Company, tickets,  
Martin Judge, Bailey press and stationery,  
John Tilley Co., table for booths,  
Casper Ranger, setting up booths,  
' George W. Prentiss, postage, Sinking Fund Commission, .  
R. F. Kelton, postage, typewriting, ‘
E. A. Kane, postage, express,  
D. W. Kenney, postage,  
W. T. Walsh, postage,  
Thomas F. McCabe, stamped envelopes,  
Roland T. Oakes, alcohol torch,  
Clarence Porter, sponges,  
G. E. Russell Co., eyelets and wire,  
Price, Lee Co., directories,  
Western Union Telegraph Company, telegrams,  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
Warren’s Express, cartage,  
Ware’s Typewriter Agency, oil,  
Wyckoff, Seamans Benedict, typewriter repairs,  
Sullivan, Carmody Wesely, gas tubing, 
M. J. Moynihan, repairing ballot boxes,  
Ulric Dufresne, burial lot, digging soldiers’ graves,  
Holyoke Water Power Company, gas, polling place, "
Thomas Stansfield, traveling expenses, ..  
D. L. Shea, auditing,  
Vermont Farm Machine Co., laboratory supplies,  
A. M. Potvin, rent polling place,  
Mrs. Charles Ayen,  
Patrick Green, 
E. H. Howland, 
A. N. Lapointe,  
John R. MacNally,  
Shields Court, M.C.O.F.,  
St. Jerome T. A. B. Society, 
Trustees Whiting Street Fund,  ‘-  
Winkler Lubold, 
, H.C. Cady, team hire,  
John Dillon,   
George I. Fitch,  
M. J. Griffin, eo.“  
M. J. Laporte,  
New England Towel Supply, laundry,  
H. C. Cady Printing Co.,  printing,  
Commercial Printing Co., “co,  
. M. J. Doyle,  
Griffith, Axtell, Cady Co., printing Municipal Register,  
Transcript Publishing Co., printing,  
Transcript Publishing Co., Advertising, Boston Daily Advertiser, 
Le Defenseur, 
Free Press, 
Globe Democrat, “e  
German American Printing Co.,  
August Lehman, 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  

La Presse, advertising,  
Telegram, co  
Investor Publishing Co., subscription,  

BIRTHS REPORTED.

Mrs. Julia Solileski, rn Sr  
William St. George,  
Mrs. John B. Marchand,  
Josephine De la Neuville,  
George C. Robert,  
L. A. Desrosiers,  
O. J. Comtois, .  
L. H. Clarke, Bee  j.jJ.O’Connor,  
J. E. Brindamour,  
Francis Patoel, .  
H. E. Chaput, ,  
Mrs. William Kelly,  
John Coghlan, .  
George H. Smith, oe  
C. Blodgett, . 
Charles H. Turner,  
D. M. McIntosh, .  
George L. Taylor,  
J. F. Buckley, .  
S. A. Mahoney, .  
Mrs. R. Wruck,  
C. M. Pomerat,  
Frank Holyoke, . 
J. J. McCabe, oe  
J.C. Hubbard,  
F. A. Woods,  
Mrs. Giroux,  
Gardner Cox, .  
F. F. Celce, .  
A. B. Wetherell,  
C. A. Allen, .  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
G. L. Kinne, - 
Joseph L. Marin, .  
F. J. Cloutier, .  
A. S. Menard, .  
A. Franz, .  
Emelie Kuhn,  
D. F. Donoghue, .  
| Jean H.Celce, toe  
F. S. Webber,  
Kate Daley, Lo. 
Louis Rorsari, . 
Joseph A. Dixon, .  
George H. Clark, .  
Jesse L. Bliss, ue  
Charles O. Carpenter, to.  
Julia M. Patten, .  
H. R. Sackett, .  
R. G. Eaton, .  
Jean B. Bail, ,  
Ella M. Davis, .  
E. J. Mahoney, ok  
C. H. Curran, ,  
J. H. Egbert, .  
H. T. Prentiss, .  
G. G. Hitchcock, .  
M. H. Dean, ,  
Mrs. Jane Young, oot  
E. H. Tierney, to  
Walter Hamilton, . 
DEATHS REPORTED.
James P. Hobart, oe 
T. F. Ryan, ,  
Joseph Dupont, .  
Wells Lathrop, .  
A. F. Gingras, .  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
A. L. Codaire Co., . 
John Dillon, .  
* C.R. Alger, ,  
Richard Barry, .  
Frank Barry, .  
Eugene Turcotte, .  
John J. Gleason, ;  
Simon Goss, .  
J. J. Raleigh, .  
John H. Clune, .  ‘T. Flynn, -  
William Blake, .  
J.J. Hafey, 
N. L. Byron, .  
P. M. Shea, Le  
A. Gordon, ,  
Total expenditures, . 
CORPORATION TAX. ,
Balance December .. 
Receipts, .  
Transfer from, .  
Balance December  —..  
ELMWOOD, OAKDALE AND SPRINGDALE SEWER
ASSESSMENTS.
Balance December , 
Receipts,  
| 
Transfer from, ,  
Balance December  .. 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.
Pay OF MEMBERS.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation, ,
$ 
Transfer from,  
Expenditures (see report of Fire Commissioners), 
REPAIRS AND CONTINGENT.
Appropriations, $ 
Additional appropriation,  
Balance December  
Receipts, .  
$ 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report of Fire Commissioners), 
Hose.
Appropriation, .  
Balance, December . 
, 
Transfer from, -  
Expenditures (see report of Fire Commissioners), 
SALARIES.
Appropriation, ok . 
Balance December  
Additional appropriation,  
Expenditures (see report of Fire Commissioners),  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
FUEL AND STREET LIGHTS.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
| 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
HIGH SCHOOL FURNISHING.
Balance December .. 
Receipts, . 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report School Board), 
. HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.
Appropriation, . 
Receipts, . .
) 
Expenditures (see report of Board of Public Works),  
Balance December —.. 
HIGH SCHOOL AND SITE.
Balance December  .. 
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works),  
Balance December ,  :
INTEREST.
Appropriation,   
Receipts, .  
Balance December .  
$ 
| ‘Transfer from, .  
Expenditures,   }

Y
  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
LICENSE FUND.
Receipts, . 
Transfer from, . +»  
Expenditures, paid to State of Massachusetts, 
MILITARY AID.
Appropriation, . 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures, . 
NATIONAL BANK TAX.
Balance December $ 
Receipts, ,  
Transferred to,  
$ 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures, paid State of Massachusetts, 
, PARKS.
Appropriation, oe . :
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
Expenditures (see report Park Commissioners), .
| PAUPER. Appropriation, - :
Additional appropriation,  :
Receipts, .  :
Balance December .  
$ ,
Transfer from, .  Expenditures (see report Overseers of Poor), 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
POLICE CONTINGENT.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
Expenditures (see report City Marshal 
, POLICE.
Appropriation, oe 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
$ 
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report City Marshal), 
PUBLIC LIBRARY.

Appropriation, . :
Expenditures, .  
PUBLIC WORKS CONTINGENT.
Appropriation, . .
Balance December .  
| 
Transfer from, ,  .
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works), .

SALARIES. |
Appropriation, . .
Receipts, .  
$ 
| Transfer from, .  .
Expenditures, - 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
EXPENDITURES ITEMIZED.
Michael Connors, Mayor, . 
Arthur B. Chapin, Mayor,  
Edward A. Kane, Clerk,  
Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer,  
D. W. Kenney, Auditor,  
“Thomas F.. McCabe, Tax Collector,  
William T. Walsh, Messenger,  
Dr. J. J. McCabe, City Physician,  
CC. T. Callahan, City Solicitor,  
A. L. Green, Solicitor,  
W. J. Horrigan, Sealer Weights and Measures,  
Hector Mondor, Sealer Weights and Measures,  
‘George H. England, Sealer Weights and Measures
(back salary),  
Moritz Hirsch, Caretaker City Hall Clock, ,
A. J. Rand, Caretaker City Hall Clock,  
James K. Morrill, Inspector Milk, etc.,  
Edward A. Kane, Registrar of Voters,  
Thomas Stansfield, Registrar of Voters,  
Charles U. Roy, Registrar of Voters,  
Patrick Brennan, Registrar of Voters,  
P. J. Gilligan, Registrar of Voters (back salary),  
B. F. Bigelow, Inspector of Provisions, etc.,  
Dr. John J. Moynihan, Inspector of Provisions, etc.,  
R. F. Kelton, Chairman License Commission,  
D. L. Farr, Chairman License Commission,  
Dr. C. H. Curran, License Commissioner  
James J. Regan, License Commissioner,  
C. T. Callahan, License Commissioner,  
John C. Doran, Clerk of Committees,  
James J. Dowd, Chairman Board of Assessors,  
Joseph Kelley, Assessor,  
Joseph St. Martin, Assessor,  
James T. Cunningham, Almoner,  
A. F. Gingras, Overseer of Poor,  
frank P. Hickey, Overseer of Poor,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  .
Richard P. Gilday, Overseer of Poor and Clerk, +Dr. A. B. Wetherell, Member Board of Health,  Dr. F. A. Woods, Member Board of Health,  
Jeremiah J. Linehan, Member Board of Health,  .
Joseph A. Murray, Clerk Board of Health,  .
John J. Kirkpatrick, City Engineer,  
James L. Tighe, City Engineer,  .
M. F. Walsh, Chairman Board of Public Works,  
Gilbert Potvin, Jr.. Member Board of Public Works,  .
O. D. Allyn, Member Board of Public Works,  
Henry Winkler, Superintendent Out-Door Work,  
F. H. Gilpatrick, Inspector Public Buildings,  .
Jeremiah Scannell, Janitor City Hall,  
L. M. Reardon, clerical service,  Payroll Election Officers,. ..  .
Total, - :
SEWERS AND DRAINS.
Appropriation, . }
Receipts, .  
$ 
Transfer from, .  .
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works), .
SCHOOLS.
Appropriation, » .
Receipts, .  
Balance December .  
$ .
Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report School Board),..  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
SIDEWALKS. |
Appropriation, . 
Receipts, .  
$ Transfer from, .  
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works), 
SOLDIERS’ RELIEF.
Appropriation, $ 
Expenditures, , 
| STREET WATERING.
Appropriation, . 
Additional appropriation,  
Receipts, .  
Expenditures (see report Board of Public Works), 
STATE AID.

Appropriation, . 
Receipts, ,  
Expenditures, . 

SINKING FUND.
Appropriation, $ 
Receipts, .  
Balance December . 
Transferred to Sinking Fund Commissioners,  
Expenditures (bonds paid),  

. REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SCHOOL BONDS,  .
Appropriation, .  
Expenditures (bonds paid),  
OVERLAYINGS. |
| Appropriation, $ 
Balance December  
$ 
Transfer from, .   ,
Expenditure (abatements of taxes),  
Balance December  —.. 
COUNTY TAX. |
Appropriation,. , 
tO Expenditures (paid County of Hampden), 
STATE TAX. —
Appropriation,   
Expenditures (paid State of Massachusetts),  
: NON-RESIDENT BANK TAX.
Appropriation, $ 
Additional appropriation,  
$ 
Transfer from, ;  
& 
Expenditures, .  
Balance December  ..  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
MUNICIPAL LIGHTING.
Appropriation, $ 
Expenditures, -  
Balance December  .. 
LYMAN MILLS.
Appropriation, oe 
Expenditures, .  
Balance December  .. 
SIDEWALK AND CURBING ASSESSMENTS  .

Receipts, . 
Transferred to sidewalks,. 

SEWER ASSESSMENTS No. AND  .
Receipts, See
Transferred to sewers, , 

WHITING STREET FUND.

Balance December .. oo, 
Receipts, .  

)  
Expenditures, .  
Balance December  

INTEREST ON TAXES ,

Receipts, . 
Expended, salary T. F. Downing,  
Transferred to interest, , 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
BROOKS AND O’CONNOR AVENUE BETTERMENTS.
 Receipts, . 

Transferred to schools, . 

SIDEWALK TAXES  |

Receipts, . 

Transferred to sundry accounts, 

TAXES.
TAXES—  .
Thomas F. McCabe, in account with City of Holyoke.

  ,

Dec.  .—Balance due,  Nov.  .—By cash to date, 

 .

Nov.  .—Less abatements, Interest,  
Polls,  To balance,  
Real and personal,  

$  ;
Interest,  
$  
. TAXES— |
Thomas F. McCabe, in account with City of Holyoke.

  .
Aug.  .—Total assessment,  Nov.  .—By cash to date, 
Excise tax, Street Railway Co., Interest,  
Supplementary warrant, To balance,  

$  —

Nov.  .—Less abatements,  

:  
Interest,  
$  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
Thomas F. Downing, Special Tax Collector, in account with
City of Holyoke.
  ,
Taxes— as charged to J. C. Keough,  Oct.  I—By cash to date, 
By interest,  
By abatement,  
To balance,  
$   .
Taxes— as charged to J. C. Keough,  Oct.  -—-By cash to date, 
By interest,  
To balance,  .
Taxes— as charged to J.C. Keough,  Oct.  —By cash to date, 
. By interest,  
. By abatement,  
To balance,  
:  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer. Sidewalk Assessment,  .
  .
Aug.  .—Total Assessment,  Oct.  .—By cash to date, 
To balance,  
$  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer. Sewer Assessment,  .
  .
Feb.  .—Total assessment,  Nov.  .—By cash to date, 
Oct.  .— To balance,  
$  "$ 
CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
Bonds, years per cent Water, Due July 
“ ‘“ Muuicipal, July 
“s April  
“ ‘* July  
“s Refunding R. R. Stock, ** Oct.  
“  SC H. and §S. H. Falls Bridge, Sept.  
“s Sewer, ‘* May  
“s Refunding R. R. Stock, “July  
“  +“ “e Sewer, Oct.  
“ “s H. and W. Bridge, June  
“  —CSE School, June  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Bonds, years per cent School, Due July 
“  ** March  
“  Water, ‘* Jan.  
“ “e Municipal, ‘* June  
“  ‘** Dec.  
“  “s ** Oct. 
“  (Fire Dept.), ‘* May  
“ gi se (Litigation), “July  
Total Debt,  
SINKING FUNDS.
Sinking Fund, Water Bonds, July 
“s ‘* Water Bonds, Jan. ;
“ “City Debt,  
“s Exempted,  
Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Stock, par value,  
—————— 
Total Net Debt, 
LOANS.
TEMPORARY LOANS.
  oo!
Oct.  .—Loans paid,  Dec.  .—Balance, 
Balance due,  .
Jan.  .—Loan,  
Feb.  .—  
Feb.  .—  
. Feb.  
June  .— ‘*  
July  .—  
Aug. .—  
.  
MUNICIPAL BOND, YEARS (Litication).
  ,
Aug.  .—Transfer to Municipal Lighting,  Aug. .—Loan, 
“ sc ‘** Contingent, ‘* -—Premium,  
“  ‘* Lyman Mills acc.,  
“  Sinking Fund,  
$  
MUNICIPAL BOND, YEARS (Fire Dept.).
  .
Aug.  .—Transfer to Fire Department, Aug.  .—Loan, 
Repairs and Contingent,  
“ Transfer to Sinking Fund, ‘“  —Premium,  
, 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
| CASH ACCOUNT. .
  .
Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Disbursements for year, .
Nov.  .—Receipts to date, By balance,  
$ . 
| DEBT STATEMENT FOR  .
Dr. Cr.
Municipal Bonds Loan,.  Notes paid during  
Municipal Bonds, 
.  
Decrease in gross debt,  
ANNUAL NET DEBT STATEMENT.
The following table shows the net debt at the close of each
fiscal year, beginning with  :
Year. Debt. Increase. Decrease.
   , ,   ,  
Total increase in the past seven years, Average
annual increase in net debt, .
, D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

TWENTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE ,
Overseers of the Poor —
OF THE ,
CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE
YEAR  .
teanscairr PUBLISHING CO. |

Digitized by Google

| TWENTY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT
. OF THE
BOARD OF OVERSEERS OF THE
POOR
OF THE CITY OF HOLYOKE.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke:

The Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit their twenty- |
fifth annual report for the year ending November .

In presenting our annual report this year, we would respectfully call attention to the few recommendations made, which will
appear later in the report under the proper heads, and trust they
will be taken up and considered as soon as possible. The most
important recommendation we have to make is that of the erection
of chapel, in connection with the institution at the City Farm:
This is something that has never been provided, and, in fact, up to
the present year all those that wished attended services at the
Brightside institution, but for the past year the number has been so
large that they could not be accommodated there any longer.
Services are now held every Sunday at the institution, but the room
set aside for that purpose is entirely too small as there are about
seventy who wish to attend services, and the present quarters can
seat but about fifty. We, therefore, trust that in the near future a
chapel will be provided that will accommodate all that wish to
attend religious services. :

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.

The City nowhere undertakes problems of such delicacy and
difficulty as the administration of public charity, and yet this
department seems to be generally overlooked, and, as rule, the
public knows but very little of the work done for the poor in
their midst. .

It has been the aim of this Board to discourage, as tar as
possible, the giving of out-door relief, and during the year just
ended there has been decrease of It is agreed by all
pauper Officials that it is through out-door relief that most impositions are practiced, and it is through this sort of relief that the
most unworthy cases profit.

Such relief carries with it none of the unpleasant features of
being removed to, or living in, an almshouse it leaves its recipients
free to spend their time as they like and enjoy themselves in the
same mode of living that first made it necessary for them to need
public relief. All these facts encourage many people to ask such :
relief and to continue it as long as possible; it encourages deception as well as idleness, by relieving the head of the family from the
support of his wife and children. It encourages him to spend his
earnings freely and in way that he may consider more pleasant
than buying the necessaries of life for his family.

There are several such cases in this city who should be made
to support their families, now that work is more plentiful, or other
means should be employed than supporting their families simply
because they will not do so themselves.

OUT-DOOR RELIEF.

The number of families aided during the year was  ,
representing persons. In there were such cases,
representing persons. notable fact in connection with
this class of relief is that there are several families who, for the first
time in several years, have not applied for relief this year; there
have been also fewer able bodied men applying for work, we having
issued but working cards this year, as against in  .

The department was called upon to furnish orders for the
burial of bodies, at an expense of in this same
item of expense was .

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
The total expenses for the year for all classes of partial and
full support has been as follows :
City out-door poor, 
City sick at hospitals,   |
City burials,  
———— 
State out-door poor, 
State sick at hospitals, oe  
State burials,  
————  
Cities and Towns, out-door poor,  
Cities and Towns, sick at hospitals,  
Cities and Towns, burials,  
as 
Insane outside City Farm, 
Overseers of the Poor,  
City Farm,  
-  
Making Total of, .  ,
The total cost for the year was,  
An increase of, $ 
This increase is owing to the  paid for insane cases .
at Northampton Lunatic Asylum, which should have been paid Jast
year and added to last year’s expenses.
RECEIPTS.
Balance,  
Appropriation,  
Receipts from all sources,  
Total receipts, ———— 
Total Expenses, .. . 
BaJance unexpended,  
On following page is detailed statement of expenses outside |
of City Farm.

i
|
ZS :
|  
S oO
me -nyyeay 
:  PERE RE
‘sould |
 nS #
: ex |
: os ‘s gS o
loucne :
:  tee
: ge si  Ee
Pp SI :
 iM)  
foxy jo Bor :
pa ,
: &
 cueas )
:  gS ie Ne) &S —
  “a ra x
 on NR oS  Ps
 “SI : :
EY pire exon i
: rs Soc ea
O ws :
  mag, BE ees i
 ea ra  
;  gaa: : sa lg
: ss ot
:  .
:  SS  s&s  B
 as  $
| [x] 
| ae E
SU :
 it
Zz sue ;
ea pue son :
Au oh te) gE :
| |
ea pue Suns.  |
:  Na} S
. as ot oy oS
:  al Sy  gS  erererrertt :
fx "$ ].  :
|  aT) eS  :
cr  
: SS es a
:  GS  SE :
  a” E
: a
 rs eRe :
|  
: os
,  we
| ffs i
| iS ues &
qzu  :
mM .
 :
@ :
  Ss  
cs at ;
s  as |
 :
zee E
 Oz :
 
&

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
. INSANE.

There has been the usual increase of insane cases during the year, there being twenty-one committed to the Northampton
Lunatic Hospital and three to other institutions in the state, for
whom this department were liable.

The cost of maintaining the insane was including
$  paid on bills. This same item in was
$ This does not include the insane cases supported at the
City Farm.

The amount refunded for care of insane was  
Making the net cost,  
SICK POOR.

Owing to the fact that the department maintains hospital in

connection with the City Farm institution, this item has been
materially reduced, as many cases that would otherwise have to be
supported in their homes or at other hospitals, were treated there
at much less expense.

The expense of this class of relief was divided as
follows :

House of Providence, 
City Hospital,  
Total, ——— |
‘The item of medicine, in addition to that of hospital treatment,
to persons treated in their homes and attended by City Physician
was .  .
Hospital Treatment,  
Total, ——— 
This item in cost, , 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
CHILDREN.

The department has provided for children during the year
at an expense of divided as follows :

. Brightside Institution, . 
Ingleside Institution,  
Boarded in families,  
Making atotalof  
The cost of this item in was.  

CITY FARM.

By vote of the Board of Aldermen the name of this institution has been changed from that of City Almshouse to City Farm, a
change that will be appreciated by many who through sentiment
dislike the term almshouse.

This branch of the department is gradually increasing, as is to
be expected, as from year to year the number of people that the
city will have to provide home for is increasing.

The institution and farm is in the usual fine condition and
provides good and comfortable home for those who are no longer
able to maintain home of their own.

The product of the farm this year was up to the standard, and
aided materially in the maintenance of the institution.

The institution in general is in good condition, but few minor
repairs being needed; this is to be expected from year to year in
an institution of this kind. :

In connection with the institution, the board would again |
recommend that storage battery be added to the electric plant.
This is, as was stated in our last report, absolutely necessary, in
order to have lights at all times, when needed. There are many
times when it is necessary to have lights all night in the hospital,
and the most economical as well as the safest remedy is the adding
of storage battery. The cost of battery for this purpose would
be about  This, we believe, would be wise expenditure.
We would also once again urge the necessity of proper fence
around the grounds of the institution.

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. 
Since our last report the Board of Public Works erected an 
ice house with capacity of tons. This has been the means of
saving large item of expense and made it possible to have plenty
of ice at all times during the summer months—a thing that was
impossible under the old way of buying ice when needed.
HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT.
During ‘the year there have been treated in the hospital
department connected with the City Farm, and in most cases there
has been very satisfactory results. The diseases or ailments of the
patients were of varied nature, and there are probably few diseases
or chronic ailments to which the human body is subject that
were not treated, the details of which can be seen in the City Physician’s report. |
The general health of the inmates, except those in the hospital
department, has been very good.
 Number of inmates December »  
Number admitted during the year,  
Total number, -  
Number discharged, including deaths, 
Number remaining November -.  
The expenses of the City Farm for the year was ,
divided as follows :
Salaries, . 
Supplies, .  
Permanent improvements,  
Miscellaneous,  
Total, .  
On following page is detailed statement of expenses at City
Farm. |

J ses|s
QQ  Ss jor) Oo  R
mmr is SSRRERRREER IZ
prs m™  nm an! Vet
ee ne  
) 
*‘sNOsUBI[eOSIIT vO 
& A
rr re E
e ie)
 POOM 
. rn a
| ss  
. ‘e  pus oS Bj eO  A
ee “Butieday  z
SK jj puesmooyseuon SH SX Rsgeagezeage g
uO ddUBpPUe }V [BOIPAN S
a )$SkRESES ERAS a
ry || ‘WO Pav quegoasnsiq "RSP RARSTSR  
ry
a [Ze ep se zee es, ss
souyes |S SF FS FTERERR SE SES x
dp) Fy Pp qwrqyw VP ss 
fF fj
a )ERR  Se 
A cwmen GSES RR AST EE) E
&
ae
rs SESS ESE BESS  R
Esa ogc eg ow  
tz -UIN'T pus BMpIB}T am  a
 je RSS FS FS RB
a “Bat eves  sg g
 -quinfd pus Zunayeg Z
 aanatuang SSSSERE aS RAS a
‘aanqaan See   eae eS
fx) puev spooy ssnoy  ae  BSC RPC ARS |
 we ae |
 |)  FR  )
- spoon Ard Oo 
| #
| —---eear—r—o— mm AB ea  
— ‘Sulyjwo]O pavss gg RF THRBSSe BxAXAS BS e
:  
I QQ SE S”—””””TT..CCAaSSC“‘“C‘#CLSOCSQQSSCS
 ‘ooanqoL He |
fal pu’ pvxIVG ‘sva ], vn  a
TRE ERS SSE RES TS
vu |Z   SARS SBA §
#
p@FSzeg    ys
‘Us pavywwow es FS Sak ST RR EH BS Pa
| we Rw RHR |
ee   eR ERE RE TE
"  zsese te ef oF S
e  RRERRERESZAEB RB 
a
 Q
. .-  seem db, at vey 
wo |g agg bei eeag rey
AsSee ae BE

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
, RECAPITULATION. |
Out-Door Poor, City, , 
Insane Outside City Farm,  
State, .  
Cities and Towns,  
Overseers of the Poor,   |
City Farm,  
Total, . 
Cr.
By amount charged to State, .  By amount charged to cities and towns,  
By visits of City Physician, State,  
By visits of City Physician, cities and towns,  
By cash from State,  
By cash from cities and towns,  
By reimbursement from insane,  
By amount refunded,  
By cash received from farm produce, etc.,  
$ 
Net expense to the city for the year  
In addition to the above amount, the department paid the
sum of  for insane bills of  .
Respectfully submitted,
AMIDEE F. GINGRAS,
RICHARD GILDAY,
FRANK P. HICKEY, |
Overseers of the Poor.
| JAMES T. CUNNINGHAM,
City Almoner.
December ,

REPORT OF
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
ASSEssors’ OFFICE, December .
| To the Mayor and Board of Aldermen.
GENTLEMEN: The Board of Assessors of the City of Holyoke
beg leave to submit the following report for the year  .
} For the Board, |
JAMES J. DOWD, Chairman.
, Appropriation, , 
EXPENDITURES. Permanent assistant assessor, whole year,  
Field work assistants, May and June,  
Clerk of assessors, May, June, July and August,  
Advertising notices, local papers,  
Printing street lists, statements, blanks, etc.  
Assessors’ city valuation books, indexes, etc.,  
Expenses incurred, Boston, Springfield and
other places, looking up records and corporation tax ard investigating personal
property, 
Postage,  
M. J. Laporte and others, team hire,  
Miscellaneous expenditures for department
purposes,  
Balance unexpended,  
———. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  

: TAX WARRANTS. .

A State warrant for the proportion of the City of Holyoke of State tax as fixed by Chapter  Acts

of  to wit: One million five hundred thousand
dollars, . 

A county warrant for the proportion of the City

of Holyoke of county tax of  ,
Resolves,  Chapter  te  

A city warrant for the tax, of the City of Holyoke for
city purposes,  
Aggregate of warrants, 

POLLS.

; The polls recorded for assessment before August ,
included in the estimate, which determined the tax rate for the.
current year, were  .

Under the operation of the law providing for the supplementary
assessment of omitted male persons, determined by the Registrars of
Voters to be liable for assessment under the provisions of Section  ,
of the Acts of  Chapter  of the Acts of  there. were
added to the list, one hundred and seventy-nine polls ), making ,
the total number of polls assessed,  .

VALUATION.

The valuation of the city as of May determined by
the Assessors August  of that year, when the rate of taxation was
fixed as follows :

Value of land, woo. 
Value of buildings,  
. Total value of real estate, 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
PERSONAL PROPERTY.

Valuation of personal property, and other

than bank stock, separately assessed by the }

assessors, , 
Valuations of shares in national banks located

in Holyoke and taxable locally, 
There were added under the provisions of Section of Chapter of the Public Statutes,

as amended by Chapter  of the Acts of

 on personal,  
Total assessed valuation for  upon which

taxes were levied, all additions included, 

The valuation for  of personal property is increased in
addition to the amount given in the foregoing table, by the value
assessed by the Commonwealth upon shares of Massachusetts corporations, including also the proportionate part of the street railway
tax, measured as per Chapter  Acts  All of which is the
property of residents of the City of Holyoke, .

The valuation is further increased for bank stock assessed at
the several rates and places, where banks are located, as the taxes
are paid to Holyoke on this class of property held by its citizens
in Massachusetts banks located outside of the City of Holyoke,
$ .

As the revenue from thes? two sources is always estimated
before the amount to be raised by taxation is determined, the effect
of the valuation of this property in reducing the rate of taxation is
nearly the same as though its amount was included in the assessors’
valuation assessed by them.

The increase in valuation over is as follows :

Land and buildings, . 
Personal property,  
Total increase for  . 

There was less amount in bank shares shown this year than

was in .

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  
EXEMPTED PROPERTY.
.Property exempt from taxation,under Section  of Chapter
 of the Public Statutes, as follows:

Educational, , 
Benevolent and charitable, ‘

Houses of religious worship,  

Aggregate of exempted property, 

The valuation in stocks in corporations and banks, together
with the valuation of exempted property, does (as the table shows)
increase the total valuation of the City of Holyoke fur the year
  to |

Real estate increase in taxable valuation for  yg is per
cent of taxable valuation of  ,

Personal estate is  per cent of  .

The rate of taxation was made  per  of the valua- :
tion of real and personal property sulject to taxation under Chapter
 of the Public Statutes, an increase of  per  over
 .

There was  raised by direct taxation in  above
the amount raised in  for which warrants were received. |
VALUATION OF THE CITY BY WARDS.

Real Estate. Personal Estate. Res. Banks.
Ward    H. F. N. B.,
 ,   Holyoke N. B.,
   
“  City N. B.,
“  
“qi   Home N. B.,
———.  —-— 
$  Park N. B.,
$ 
, 
Supplementary, &  
Real estate, .  
Personal estate,  
Resident banks,  
: 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
STATISTICS.
i ol og os FI
)ae 
ot z
  ss oe ioe 
S Ay Ay eo Oo |m| 
sae Ee n.d, Cee Se Mie PSee
" I}  
 | II 
Si) (tos  aa  , BAST 
| !
SUPPLEMENTARY LIST OF POLLS BY WARDS.

, Wards   )
 —Total,  ,
PROPORTION OF TAX RATE, STATE, COUNTY AND CITY.

State,  per  polls deducted
County,  per  polls deducted
City, per 
$  per 
The Assessors on October of current year assessed the
Holyoke Street Railway Company an excise tax of in
accordance with Chapter  Acts of  and executed and
delivered warrant to Thomas F. McCabe to collect the same, in
accordance with above mentioned act. Rate of levy was  
per mile for miles, or per cent on total income.
Cd

Z i
 o
Ps] ed  jet   ae od wd wa  wd  
--”  YY  -” wa  ae  ae CA
S  se en]
CO ie Sale Say le Sa re Se  Se Sr ee
  
pr tcstteteetee:Sr Sr Seer  eS er Se
| {o) 
ey, n
Hoar
rs} Ba  HR OO  HE  WWW Ho Senne SRYRVLMRVSRSHMS:
. q's  iB SE SODNVGOR DSRSSSSRE BAS BREESE
oO  mit GEGRBE SBR BAS RSGBSRSSEE RSIRSRESERE RARE
On fe BSHAMMOOnODHSH OATHS aw:  SA Se IHR OS.
oOOg RSF SSSrIRSVS Fae TAS SSR  Ry a) an |
CO Ay Set ae *
rar o.  .
 Aas OREO ARR OGOH MON PDA DaIQSSRNAW SOM URIS Dw SE
to tw OR os Stet Qiti- éX  SD oD  *DONweSon HO
 OS ss of PES OMA MIB SHA SERRGRARSGRSARERREE RETA
n MOB HRVOAMDGSerOASHeR BAGO GE “Winwin# Owig “Wade “#
fx AL,  ete MQ wr ow    me
 Ay Oo *
| Se 
om —
sand SSBSrASRSRBRBSBRSSRMSFSRSREBSSFSCSSRSSVBLSHSLS
NBPanSVSsBHSDoidn ra) Ww Se HE DD: SQoOr
sn OG Br BREASZRRSGRAS BRE RAINS ESSERE GRGASSARRSAB
) te ABDAAAPWSAGHSRMOWDMSMHORHDOSOHRORMA “CHD OMA GMA
 ay ®@ Ot   es rer on
tz, Pu  *R
om gas |
Os Hh SIRSSSSSSASSERSLESLISRSRSLSLSSSLRGSSRES
rm] SBVSMBWADODAMRAS Am He HWA aS HADS? &
Og BF BrBS SRS BSELAHRALSERSA BLE SRASSSLARBIRSS
bet WMO MAMVROWSSHeGBNARHRT ‘xf OD HOR
wn Sug eganaksreaeae ye Mee GO Sh riwoed wie
. (ad Au as ee
S |
Sonmoon HKHMHALOWOMDODMAMMMNOLK Net Dqoarwrnre
Qs || wb RSSLISKSSASASSSSRSRAGSARSRELKRAGSLLSEBR ||
SATHMARGSASHHSAS AHH sow AIrscsegsGHtnrrewosawm enone '
+ oS REZSHSBSRLSSHSSSSRSRISRSRSCESRG Res rte 
Rel MARR RERSASES RE SAR TE SRR RSUSSERASSSARSRER ||”
Sp) oy FAGSSBSSSE SAS SSSESSECLANSANG BSS ES ARSSSS
wn) re, DMDOrsenHtstnzH HDD AIO DAANNDOS Ha,
aq
ee  ecocoes eccoecsoocooseso secscoeocosses
a  || ose RASRSRSSRRESBRSSIISSISISZRASRESHRLSZYZES
a) SHONGAGORMA AGH SSHHGHSeOHAHTROMEOOOLNHNOONWMNS
hs, we  et et et mt OR OD et re et edeee et et et ot
.|| aes |
—,  oj  r) CD HR HR DONWORMMOKNDOHAOAMMAMER Onm 
UY bs  So ue oa, wt Oe OD) wet YO rm at ‘a
 fi GRSSESSS ARISE GSAS RSRRRSRELSSEE FEE LASERS &
  FREASHLAHABEERHGSNHHOSORNRLS HARK“ KSARNRSDGSTSANS
fx MAMAN DOAMDHAOMAMPRMOMOSSOOoSrrnrngG§eqDNoaacsnnsy
 Aa Se tet rt
  
ica SPSPwVMI DP NM szOw RNeEROK? IN DIDI IDIN DIDS MS Bw wn INNSO
qd BESCPERT SSP RSRRIREAR HR RSARSRERFRSSRSSS
fas ——oO PRA DWNMARS HD QGRARSGEAWS GE GOSMHAKARNSEORHOQA
 ERFSSSLSCESILIEEE SESE LSNSEANSESESSTZEESS
Sie tze SRS en He OS Bs BIR HK SRARSE 
a) og QNSSaGAZHIRSSHASSHERSSRABAEAAASSS SEE BSSS
ANQKRNSsE HM SSKOHHAGAEASSONM HMSO LADANNA GSR aAMSy
bo ROG OR FSA RARSRARRSSSD
Z RVD SD IDI] DD DOD DORR SON AW SIN  ISIN D
) KHHMONADUISDaTHRANHT SARS FSARMLRE TC  SSHRSEHAEAR
 SARS ARSE RAECE LRECSATRRARS TRE SCE REAR SRA
ot PSGBHtinwM is gr Ds rtscss Assess scecsyrt eye eRe eceszeses
Oo KFRORGELES SSAC SSE FRR FLERSERERZSE AS FRERES
Y mS, HOARSE LDQM HOI SOS HDS MHOwoOKH AMR BASS
PU ORRIN ONIN RI SH SHES HS SOSH SO
O oar? *
al
 RHoOoS SSDS sw Sy Swqyy Www SSoCSeovusseescose
be BR SSSSSHSSSARRALASSHHSSSSTETESREV ARERR
  SBN HD SO OR OS  HH Sad te DS I
Size igsts WN BBA NBSORMBMSL KR SCOK KAAS ANS KHL SH  EESECRSLSECSESR ASR SASBCAL ESSE RES RLS ERS 
a SFOS NES RLM HOARSOFEALSR SON HOSAHHAAGRE LIA SOASE by
Au TMM AARNRN WI GG SSOSSCSH EN KESCM MAG HOSEN KEGS KCK  
Teet st te et ORO moe
A aw
 
ss OL
PND HIDDwOASSCANMAMNSHROASANVMAOSEDSSOmMRNMTMPOOR IG ry
SSSSSSEXSECRRAVUEEZE Zz OE SaetSGactancks
d EOELLELEL ECOL EO KBE EEEEEEE EDEL EEL EER 


/
Digitized by Google

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
JURY LIST
FOR  .

\
Digitized by Google

JURY LIST.

PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF

CHAPTER  OF THE ACTS OF  .

A
Name. Residence. Occupation.
Aurnhammer, Frank Jackson street Binder
Aubry, Samuel J. S. Bridge st. Pattern Maker
Ahearn, Edward Main street Pump
Allaire, John B. Summer st. Carpenter |
Allan, John R. Clark street Clerk |
Ash, Thomas Chapin street Farmer
Anderson, Hugh E. Franklin st. Chemical
Arthur, Frank B. Pine street Real Estate
Abbott, William H.  Howard st. Soap Manufacturer
Allyn, Edwin H. Fairfield ave. Clerk
Allyn, George H. River terrace Real Estate
Allyn, George E. Newton st. Holyoke Machine
Ahearn James J. Sargeant st. Chicopee Falls  
Anderson, Thomas J.  Miller avenue Cigar Manufacturer
Ash, Matthew Miller avenue M. J. Doyle
Adams, Oliver C. Bh street Merchant
B

Barrett, Anthony East street Crocker Paper Co.
Bleasius, John East street Alpaca
Brannigan, Thomas J. Center street Paper Mill Operative
Brockway, William Center street Albion Paper Co.
Burns, John J. Center street Gill Paper Co.

  JURY LIST.
Name. Residence. Occupation.

Bibeau, Louis Front street Store |

Bogart, Samuel N. Mosher street Crocker Paper Co.

Brennan, Patrick Center street Clerk |

Begley, Thomas J. High street Holyoke St. Ry. Co.

Boyer, Frank Front street Lyman Mills

Byrnes, John J. Elm street Clerk

Barlow, William H. Pleasant st. Contractor

Baker, Michael Bh street Janitor

Brassil, Patrick J. Hampden st. D.O’Connell’s Sons

Barrett, Martin F. Plymouth pl. U.S. Envelope Co. |

Barry, Thomas Maple street Tender

Bean, William Maple street Box Shop

Black, John Hampshire st. Bartender

Bradley, James  Worcester pl. Painter

Bretherick, Alfred Sargeant street Alpaca

Bresnahan, Patrick Highstreet Tender

Brockway, Frank  Franklin street Linden Paper Co.

Buckland, Edward A. Cabot street Screw Co.

Bunting, William R. Worcester pl. Laborer

Butterfield, Joseph A. Maple street Parsons

Beebe, Elmer, High street Butter Store

Berry, William W. Newton street Powers Paper Co.

Bosworth William E. Bond Piano Tuner

Burgin, Edwin Maple Bicycle Store

Bishop, William L. Linden street Express

Bleasius, John P. Bh street Machinist

Bond, Henry W. Suffolk street Whiting

Bosworth George’L. Dwight street Contractor

Bullard William H. Oak street Dry Goods
Burns, Richard Suffolk street Cigar Manufacturer

Burke, John J. Dwight street Caterer

Ballard, Willis D. Pearl street Coburn Trolley Track

Bardwell, Frederick L. Taylor Clerk

Batchelder, Joseph E. Pleasant Deane Steam Pump

Brockett, Eli I. Beacon avenue Builder

Brooks, William Fairfield ave. Merchant

Buck, Frank L. Pearlstreet Buck Co.

a JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation.

Bagg, Edward P. Locust street Parsons Paper Co.

Ball, Charles E. Pine street Druggist

Bellows, Lewis E. Cabot street

Brierley, James A. Oak street Printer

Bronson, John E. Essex street Merrick

Ball, Frank W. Jr. Gilman street Real Estate

Batchelor, Frederick Chapin street Retired

Baxter, Hartley I. Chapin street Holyoke Co.

Beebe, Arthur V. Back street Beebe, Webber Co.

Becker, Jacob Sargeant street Marketman

Begley, Thomas E. Congress street Hol P. Wall Paper

Bradshaw, George E. Willow street Gill Paper Co.

Butcher, Samuel South street Insurance Agent

Baril, Pierre Jr Adams Perkins Machine

Beauchemin, Jos A. East street Butcher

Benoit, Albert F. East street Cigar Maker
Becher, F. Moritz Jackson street Merrick

Bretschneider, Max Summer street Clerk

Benoit, T.O Summer street Painter

Bertrand, Adolph H. Mainstreet Retired

Blair, Louis G. Main street Hadley

Burnham, Fred G. Mainstreet Flour and Grain

Bowler, Michael A. Park street Japanner

C

Cain, Arthur M.  Beacon ave Builder

Caswell, James H. Thorpe ave. Carriage Trimmer

Callahan, Michael Nonotuck st Grain Dealer

Cooley, Herbert W. Lincoln street Life Insurance Agent

Carto, Elezear Walnut street Alpaca

Chadwick, Day Bh street Plush Mill )

Childs, Thomas S. Pine street Shoe Dealer :

Clark, George A. Bh street Newton Paper Co.

Collins, George W. Oak street Merchant

Campbell, Thomas D. Columbus ave. Insurance Agent

Chapin, Chalmers Lawlor street Retired

  JURY LIST. |
Name. Residence. Occupation.

Clark, HerbertS.  North’pton st. Bookkeeper
Cleveland, William Brown ave. Machinist
Crafts, George Laurel street Gill Paper Co.

. Cavanaugh, Maurice Pine street Mason
Codaire, Jerry Newton place Carpenter
Connor, Dennis Dwight street Wire Mill
Cook, William Walnut street Parsons
Cowan, James Suffolk street Springfield
Cray, Patrick J. Dwight street Curran Cray
Corner, Walter H. Appleton st Crocker Paper Co.
Clark, John E. Hampden st Paper Mill
Cleary, James F. Dwight street, Water Inspector
Curran, John J. Linden street Salesman
Carlin, John C. Hampshire st. Buchanan Bolt
Cavanaugh, Nicholas Hampshire st Book Bindery
Church, Ralph Maple street Water Power
Cody, Thomas J. Maple street Clerk
Crosby, Harry Maple street Hadley Co.
Curran, James J. Cabot street Druggist
Cantin, William High street Barber
Cassidy, Edward Newton street Insurance Agent |
Chase, Edward T. Newton street Riverside Paper
Childs, Charles Maple street Business College
Coghlan, William A. Chestnut st. Boiler Works
Connor, John C. Newton street Merrick
Cornell, Charles Chestnut st Music Teacher
Curry, Anthony A.  Newton street Barber
Caase, Hugo, Main street Insurance Agent
Cady, Osborne J. Race street Merrick
Charest, Joseph A. East street Printer
Chevrette, Charles E. Race street Clerk
Cloutier, Louis Main street Grocer
Curley, Frank J. Main street Contractor
Coiteux, Napoleon Main street Clerk
Carey, Edward T.  Bowers street E. O’Connor Co.
Cavanaugh, Daniel J. Lyman st Clerk
Curran, James F. Walnut street Laborer

JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation.

Cote, Louis High street Clerk

Clare, John High street Alpaca

Carey, Patrick Ely street Crocker Paper Co.

Clifford, Patrick J. Ely street |
Connor, Michael J. Lyman street Electrician

Connors, Patrick J. Lyman street Hadley Co.

Cronin, James F. Ely street Crocker Paper Co.

Curran, Michael J. Mosher street Mason

Carey, William go Fountain st. Laborer :

Conway, Patrick J. Elm street Plumber

Danford, John J. Bond street Merrick

Dillon, John J. Highstreet  Clerk

Donoghue, Jeremiah T. Newton street Merrick

Dwight, William G. Maple street Transcript

Danehey, Michael F. Maple street Merrick :

Dearden, James Maple street Alpaca

Driscoll, Richard Sargeant st. Linden Paper Co.

Dowd, James J. Dwight street Assessor

Dowdall, Lawrence Bh street Nonotuck

Donoghue, Daniel  Bowers street Laborer

Dowling, John Mosher street Clerk

Donoghue, Joseph Chestnut st. Laborer

Dunford, James East street Laborer

Donoghue, Cornelius J. Grover street Hadley Co.

Duprea, Frank A. Ely street Parsons Paper Co. |

Donlan, John High street Motorman

Deen, Eugene Elm street Deane Steam Pump

Donoghue, Florence Chestnut st. Dickinson Paper :

Driscoll, William F. Elm street Dickinson Paper

Dreicorn, Max O. Park street Barber

Daze, Fred Cabot street Molder ,

Delorme, Alcide Bridge street Casper Ranger

Ducharme, Israel Hamilton st. Carpenter

Duke, Maurice F. Cabot st. Grocer

  JURY LIST.
Name. Residence. Occupation.

Dugas, Alexander Summer street Barber
Ducharme, Valere Main street Grocer
Ducharme, Stanislas Ii Spring street Carpenter
Donahue, Edward Race street Smith White
Daley, Peter Hamilton st. Dickinson Paper
Davis, Frank A. Hampden st. Contractor
Dean, Wilbert T. Fairfield ave. Merchant
Deane, Ezra L. Pleasant st. Manufacturer

Donoghue, Timothy Chestnut st. Grocer
Dickey, James F. Fairfield ave. Grain Dealer
Doane, George W. Lincoln street Builder
Delaney, William H. Lynwood ave. Painter
Doran, Gabriel Bh street Holyoke Steam and Gas
Davis, Abraham Chapin street Merchant
Dean, John South street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Dean, Joseph Willow st. Alpaca
Dearden, Joseph Willow street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Downie, Martin M. Laurel street Merrick
Dreicorn, Emil F. Chapin street Merchant

E

Engle, William M. Arlington st. Insurance Agent
Edson, Archibald C. Fairfield ave. Holyoke W. P. Co.
Ellsworth, Emory A. Essex street Architect
Evans, Edwin B. Sargeant st. Butcher
Elliott, Palmer B. Glen street Dickinson Paper Co.
Eberhardt, Frederick H.  Bridge street N.Y. Mill
Eger, Paul C. Park street Linden Paper Co.
Erhardt, John Jackson street Germania
Edwards, Thomas Hampshire st. Edwards Co.
Eismann, Hermann High street Germania
Eagan, Michael J. Elm street Laborer
, F
Ferguson, Archibald Jr. High street Dyer ;
Forsythe, Walter F. Newton street Riverside Paper Co.
Fletcher, Daniel High street Chemical Paper Co.

JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation. :
Flynn, Michael J. High street Holyoke Water Works
Fox, John P.  Commercial st. Alpaca
Freeman, Peter Jr. Maple street Potato Dealer
Fay, Samuel S. Bh street Painter Fitzgerald, Daniel J. Dwight street Newsdealer :
Ford, Daniel L. Clinton ave. Bartender
Fay, Benjamin C. Elm street Machinist
Fitzpatrick, Edward J. Pine street Coburn Trolley
Finn, Martin Cabot street Ely Lumber Co.
Fontaine, Joseph B. East street Baker
Fortier, Alphonse Summer st.  Plasterer
Feldmann, A. Hugo Mainstreet Clerk
Friedrich, Oswald South street Plumber
Fleming, John Summer st. Boiler Maker
Frey, Julius Main street Clerk
Farr, Dennie L. Washington av. Paymaster
Farr, Jesse  View street Beebe, Webber Co.
Farr, Simeon  View street Beebe, Webber Co. |
Feather, Frank Washington av. Tinner
Friedrich, Hugo N’hamptonst. Plumber
Frink, Herbert J. Pine street Holyoke Machine
Fowles, Joseph H. N’hampton st. Builder
Finn, Thomas H. Bowers street Parsons Paper Co.
Fitzgerald, John East street Carpenter
Fitzgerald, Michael H. West street Chemical Paper Co. ,
Flynn, Daniel Center street Insurance Agent
Farrell, John Lyman street Peddler
Flynn, Joseph Hampden st. Linden Paper Co.
Farrell, Jeremiah J. Canal street Hadley Co.
Fitzgerald, John Summer st. H. W. P. Co.
Flynn, Patrick F. Summer st. H. W. W.
Finn, Thomas Maple street H.W. W.
Forhan, John Hampden st. Mason
Farrell, James E. Maple street Contractor
Finn, John Elm street Laborer
Ford, Thomas Chestnut st. Nonotuck Paper Co.

  JURY LIST.
G
Nanie. Residence. Occupation.
Gates, Seymour E. South street Real Estate
Geary, Andrew W. Willow st. Blacksmith
Goodyear, George L. Back street Farmer
Griswold, William P. Washington av. Candy Manufacturer
Gruenert, August South street  Coburn Track Co.
Gaffney, Thomas J. Elm street Chemical
Green, Samuel M. Elm street Merrick
Griffith, J. Eveleth Walnut street G., A. C. Co.
Gifford, Stephen E. Pleasant st. Paper Maker
Gill, George C. N’hampton st. Manufacturer
Gaynor, Thomas W. Dwight street Bookkeeper
Golde, Sigimund Bh street Confectioner
Gleason, Michael J. Dwight street Carpenter
Griffith, Maurice W. Clinton ave. Florist
Glenn, Robert C. Commercial st. Book Bindery —
Gorman, Edward J. Commercial st. Kaffir Cigar Co.
Giblin, John W. Essex street Painter
Goss, Elbert Newton street City W. W.
Geiger, George Main street  Bottler
Gerbhardt, John Park street Skinner
Giroux, Camille Vernon street Merrick
Guertin, William A. Bridge street C. Koegel
Gilmore, John R. Race street
- Goddu, George East street Connor Bros.
Goyette, Dieudonne Cabot street Blacksmith
Grise, Romuald Bridge street Butcher
Gleason, William D.  Racestreet Taylor Mfg. Co.
Ginley, Patrick Mosher street Bindery
- Gregoire, Moise High street Laborer
Gaffney, Charles Canal street Hadley Co.
Gear, Patrick Center street H. W. W.
Gilday, Richard Center street Hadley Co.
Green, Robert A. Lyman street Plumber
Greeley, John High street Crocker Paper Co.
Grady, Bernard J. High street Clerk, B. M.R.R.
Grady, Thomas High street Wire Weaver ,

JURY LIST.  
H .
Name. Residence. Occupation.

Hein, Conrad V. South street Holyoke Belting
Hogan, Patrick View street Milk Dealer
Hood, Douglas J. Lawlor avenue Tool Maker
Horne Linville D. Washington av. Bookkeeper
Hunter, John Brown avenue Harness Manufacturer
Hammond, William C. Pine street Organist
Heywood, William H. Elm street Nonotuck
Hodge, James L. Pine street Retired .
Holley, Thomas W. Pearl street Manufacturer
Holmes, Frank L. Fairfield ave. Public Market
Howes, William J. Pleasant st. Architect

- Houston, Henry S. N’hampton st. Bookkeeper
Hudson, John C. Race street Merrick
Heidel, Richard F. South street Germania
Halloran, Frank W. Highstreet Horse Dealer
Hanlon, John J. Chestnut st Butcher
Hennessy, Thomas J. High street Plumber
Hirt, Matthew Chestnut st. Tailor
Holmes, Newton F. Maple street Riverside Paper
Harvey, Thomas J. Maple street Skinner
Hitchcock, Albion F. Cabot street City Bank
Hudson, Charles Chestnut st. Merrick
Hannafin, James J. Dwight street P. O’Connell
Harmon, John Bh street Laborer
Hall, Percy N. High street C. E. Ball
Herbert, Patrick J. Dwight street Paper Mill
Howes, John H. Hampden st. Grocer
Hawkins, James L. Oak street Whiting
Howard, Herbert F. Suffolk street Nonotuck
Hall, Samuel J. West street Brown Sellers
Hickey, John West street Franklin
Hannon, James F. Front street Painter
Hebert, Louis Lyman street Lunch Cart
Hickey, Daniel Lyman street Lyman Mills
Hunter, Robert W. Canal street Hadley Co.

  JURY LIST.

Name. Residence. Occupation.
Hartnett, Eugene Bridge street Crocker Paper Co.
Healey, Andrew East street Plumber |
Hurley, John J. Front street Lyman Mills

I

Ives, Dwight H. North’pton st. Farmer

J
Jagger, Sam Appleton st. Plush Mill
Jessop, Joseph St. James ave. Expressman
Johnson, Charles W. North’pton st. Banker
Judd, Alfred T. Fairfield ave. Judd Paper Co.
Jasmin, Joseph Main street Feed Store
Johannis, Robert Bh street Painter |
Johnson, Robert M. High street Mason
Joyce, James Center street Gill Paper Co.

K
Kagwin, Dwight H. Bh street Real Estate
Koehler, Paul H. Wolcott street Insurance Agent
Kegan, Herbert C. Lincoln street Steam Fitter
Kirley, John East street Parsons Paper Co.
Kirley, Thomas East street Beebe Holbrook
Kane, John Lyman street Motorman
Kane, Jeremiah Pine street Mason
Kane, Thomas Pine street Mason
Kennedy, Patrick J. Fountain st. Laborer
Kerin, Michael Elm street Tea Dealer
Koehler, Carl William James street Germania
Kimball, Fred Meadow street N. Y. Mill
Kilburn, Frederick A. Cabot street Teamster
Klebart, Charles F.  Spring street Beebe, Webber Co.
Kraft, Carl Mainstreet Printer
Kilmurray, Luke Bond street Skinner

JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation. )
Killelea, William Maplestreet Merrick
Kinnevan, Thomas J. Hampshire st. Hampden Glazed
Kelly, Joseph J.  Clinton ave. Assessor
Kingsley, Michael J. Dwight street Paper Mill
Kennedy, James M. Dwight street Mason
en oe

. Law, Robert Linden street Chemical
Lowcock, John Myrtle avenue Alpaca
Lassiter, James S. Bh street Bindery
Lynn, Robert Bh street Shoe Dealer
Loomis, William S. North’pton st Holyoke St. Ry. Co. |
Lovering, Ernest North’pton st. Lyman Mills
Lauckner, Gustave O. South street Clothing
Leidner, Albert O. James street Painter |
Lamagdelaine, Theo. Summer street City Foundry Langelier, Edmond Park street Clerk
Langelier, Victor Park street Harness Maker
Laramay, Eugene Main street Laundry
Leduc, Hormidas Io Spring street Barber
Langlois, George E. Bridge street Pump .
Laplante, Victor S. East street Grocer
Long, David A. Main street E. D. Wells
Lemieux Theophile Cabot street Skinner |
Luby, James Pine street Nonotuck
Leonard, Thomas High street Painter
Lucey, John E. Dwight street Whiting Co.
Lafortune, Adelard J. Commercial st. Holyoke Machine
Leonard, Edward W. Hampshire st. Insurance
Lippmann, Lewis A. Maple street Cigar Manufacturer
La France, Louis A. Maple street Builder 
Laporte, Leon Bond street Express ,
Larkin, Martin A. High street Piano Dealer )
Laroche, John B. Maple street Clothier
Lyman, Charles P. Elm street Merchant
Laviolette, Edward E. Bowers street Brightwood

  JURY LIST.
; Name. Residence. Occupation.
Lamarche, Albert L. Walnut street Painter
Lacey, James S. Elm street Insurance Agent
Lynch, Patrick J. Chestnut st. Mason
Lynch, William East street Kennedy Sullivan.
Labonte, Francis B. Highstreet Clothier
Lacoste, Francis, Union street Merrick Thread
Lynch, Thomas J. Maple street Merchant
Lyons, Timothy F. Jr. Maple street Printer
M
Mackintosh, Charles E. North’pton st. Manufacturer
Malcolm, James A. Brown avenue Deane Steam Pump.
Marshall, Alfred F. Clark street Carpenter
Mackintosh, John G. Elm street Banker
Maxfield, George A. Walnut street Dentist
Mayberry, William H. Pine street Harness Maker
Markert, Charles F. Jr. Ingleside Deane Steam Pump.
Marx, Henry J. Bridge street Merrick
Marcotte, Antoine Main street Boots and Shoes
Mallon, Charles H. High street Laborer
Mann, Michael H. High street Restaurant
Mann, Martin E. High street
Manning, Michael E. Dwight st. Parsons Paper Co.
Mannix, John Bridge street Crocker Paper Co.
. Maley, David J. Lyman street City
Manning, John Bridge street Retired
Mannix, Jeremiah Bridge street Whitmore Glazed
Masse, Joseph High street Merchant
McCabe, James E. Dwight st. Glazed Paper Co.
McGue, Patrick J. E. Dwight st. Crocker Paper Co.
McTigue, James F. Dwight st. Paper Mill OperativeMcCarthy, Joseph J. Elm street Albion Paper Co.
McComes, John Lyman street Massasoit Paper
McDonnell, Thomas Mosher street Nonotuck Paper Co..
McCarthy, Dennis suffolk street Carpenter
McLean, Thomas Maple street Clerk

JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation.
McKeefe, John A. Dwight street Butcher ,
McTigue, Peter Pine street Wire Mill
McAuslan, Alexander Dwight street Merchant
McLaughlin, William J. High street Painter
McMannus, John Bh street Molder
McNamara, Patrick Clinton avenue Blank Book Co.
McNairn, John Sargeant st. Shoemaker
McGeary, Thomas Newton street Whiting Paper Co.
McLean, Anthony Main street Boots and Shoes
McLean, Hugh Jr. Race street Furniture Dealer
McElwain, Henry E. Linden street Linden Paper Co.
Moore, Lewis L. N’hampton st. Salesman
Morgan, Charles L. Chapin street Parsons Paper Co.
| Merrick, Joseph S. Walnut street Merrick Lumber Co.
Metcalf, Frank H. Linden street Alpaca
Moguin, Val Pine street Real Estate
Montgomery, John H. Allyn street Real Estate
Miner, Frank Park street Plasterer
Moreau, Charles R. Bridge street Janitor
Moreland, William J. Mainstreet Linden Paper Co. .
Migneault, Samuel] Mainstreet Dentist
Morrison, John Plymouth pl. Goddard Machine .
| Miles, William B. Linden street Photographer |
Moriarty, Timothy F. Bh street Butcher
Mulvey, Thomas Dwight street Prentiss Wire
Merrick, Origen H. Chestnut st. Merrick Thread
Moore, Patrick J. Bowers street Whiting Paper Co.
Moore, William A. Bowers street H. W. W.
Moore, John Bowers street Retired
Menard, Joseph K. Union street J. Tilley Co.
Merkel, Ernest A. Sargeant st. Skinner
, |
Neary, Thomas G. East street H. W. W.
Nolan, Edward P. Dwight street Painter
Nugent, William Maple street Parsons Paper Co.
Newmann, Karl A. H. Park street Cigar Maker
Newsome, Joseph  Washingtonav. Prentiss Wire

  JURY LIST.
, O
Name. Residence. Occupation.
Oakes, Roland T. Pearl street Electrical Goods
O’Keefe, Thomas  Nonotuck st. Merchant
Oldershaw, Alvah Laurel street Barber
O’Neill, Lawrence A. Walnut street Insurance Agent
O’Connell, James F. Summerstreet Excelsior
Osborne, Archer J. Maple street G. E. Russell Co.
O’Connell, Daniel J. Hampden st. Contractor
O’Connor, Michael J.  Walnut street Retired
O’Connell, Nicholas Canal street Hadley Co. ,
O'Neill, Michael Dwight street Deane Steam Pump
O’Brien, Daniel West street Laborer
O’ Leary, Cornelius E. Dwight st. Albion Paper Co.
O’Connor, James T. Front street Deane Steam Pump
O’Connell, Henry Mosher street Paper Maker
O’Neill, Eugene East street Shoemaker
O’Neill, Thomas East street Painter
O’Donnell, Alexander Center street Gill Paper Co.
O’Leary, Dennis Bridge street Plumber
O’Neill, Michael East street Mason .
O’Leary, Patrick T. Maple street Clerk
P

Prentice, John. J. tog Walnut street Screw Mill
Pelott, Frank Chestnut st. Barber
Pratt, Alexander Franklin street Holyoke Envelope Co.
Potvin, Gilbert Sr. Maple street Builder
Powers, John D. High street Parsons Paper Co.
Poehler, Herman Vernon street Painter

Perry, Charles J. Race street Merrick
Perrault, Ildas Main street Grocer
Porter, Horatio A. Race street Real Estate
Potvin, Adelard M. Cabot street Gents’ Furnishings
Provost, Bruno East street Painter
Parfitt, William H. St. James ave. Painter
Phillips, John C. Walnut street Chemical

JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation.

Pickup, Albert E. Sargeant street Clerk
Piper, Joseph Walnut street ‘Teamster
Proulx, Daniel Walnut street Real Estate
Potvin, Gilbert Jr. North’pton st. Real Estate
Parsons, George S. Howard street Parsons Paper Co.

‘ Prentiss, C. Herbert Pleasant street Tailor
Prentiss, Marden W. Pleasant street Prentiss Wire Co.

Q-Quirk, Jeremiah W. Chestnut street Bookkeeper
Quigley, Michael F. Newton street Expressman
R

Reed, Sewell Walnut street H.W. P. Co.
Richards, George W. Oak street Contractor
Riley, Andrew St. Jerome ave. Sausage Maker
Ross, William J.  Walnut street Blacksmith
Ryan, John D. Linden street Journalist
Rae, Thomas Jr. Brown avenue Skinner Mfg. Co.
Reed, John P. Gates street Machinist
Rider, Claudius W. South street ‘Treasurer
Ruther, Moritz E. Glen street Cigar Maker
Randall, Charles P. Pearl street Bookkeeper
Ricker, Judson N. Beacon avenue Holyoke W. P. Co.
Rogers, Sidney S. Pleasant street Paymaster
Ross, William R. Beacon ave. Grain Dealer
Ranger, William  Maplestreet C. Ranger
Regan, James J. Maple street Salesman

Reardon, John Dwight street Clerk
Ryan, William J. Newton place Artist
Riley, Joseph Elm street Union Paper Co.
Riley, David E. Maple street Baseball
Rowan, Michael J. Center street Conductor
Ryan, John J. I.yman street
Ryan, Michael J. Center street Nonotuck Paper Co.
Robinson, Joseph High street Mason

  JURY LIST.

Name. Residence. Occupation.
Rainault, Frank Main street Pool Room .
Ratelle, Oliva Park street Butcher
Robert, Clovis Main street Retired
Rheaume, Charles S. Summer st. Grocer
Ruscoe, Abram East street Insurance Agent
Reimers, Henry Jr. Main street Germania
Richter, Otto F. Main street Plumber

S

Schmidt, John Bridge street
Schubach, Paul O. Vernon street Merrick
Steiner, Albert Vernon street Casper Ranger
Snow, Edward D. Mainstreet Carpenter St. Martin, Joseph Hamilton st. Assessor
Sutcliffe, Samuel Main street Clerk
St. Cyr, Henry Bridge street Clerk
Stebbins, Henry W. Bridge street Clerk
Steitz, Theodore Bridge street Expressman —
Shea, John Maple street Laborer
Shea, Timothy J. Lyman street Tinsmith
Sheehan, Daniel Fountain Store
Scougall, John E. Dwight st. Nonotuck Paper Co.
Scully, William L. E. Dwight st. Clerk
Sullivan, Jeremiah J. West street Kennedy Sullivan
Sullivan, John B. Center street Motorman
Smith, Charles H. Canal street Hadley Co.
Savage, Felix East street Beebe Holbrook
Scully, Patrick H. Mosher street Crocker Paper Co
Smiddy, John Lyman street Parsons Paper Co.
Sullivan, Matthew Jr. Mosher street T. J. Lynch
Storey, James Hampden st. Boarding House
Sullivan, Jeremiah F. Dwight street Real Estate
Sanderson, George W. Maple street Plush Mill
Sharkey, Joseph Commercial st. Glazed Paper
Spears, Oliver J. Maple street Am. Pad Co.
Sullivan, John J. Plymouth pl. Alpaca
Shearer, Frederick Hampshire st. Foreman

JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation.
Sullivan, Peter J. Maple street Kaffir Cigar Co.
Shaw, Henry High street Merrick
Snow, William H. Maple street Holyoke W. P. Co.
Swift, Charles W. High street Machinist
Sargeant, George B. Pleasant street Alpaca
Shea, Richard  Nonotuck st. Blacksmith
Smith, Frank D. Fairfield ave. Manufacturer
Spencer, T. Henry Williams street Valley Paper Co.
Sellew, Edward B. North’pton st. Journalist
Shumway, Albert M. Westfield road Farmer
Slattery, Thomas E. Congress street Butcher
Smith, George E. Myrtle street Loom Fixer
Squiers, John P. Chapin street B. M. R.R.
Stalker, James Brown ave. Dickinson Paper
Steele, Ernest S. Laurel street F.C. Steele
Stimpson, Charles E. Myrtle street
Shumway, George J. Bhstreet Shoe Dealer
Smith, George R. Linden street Retired
Stalker, George R. Locust street Dickinson Paper
Sullivan, Dennis E. Appleton st. Shoe Dealer
Sullivan, Eugene Elm street Bindery
Sutcliffe, John B. Bh street Photo Supplies
T
Towne, Edward S. Pine street Nat. Blank Book Co. .
Twing, William G. Pine street Holyoke National Bank
Thayer, Henry L.  South street Ruler
Topham, Jonathan Brown avenue Overseer
Thorpe, Lyman F. Waldo street Carpenter
Thorpe, Arthur B. Chestnut st. Franklin Paper Co.
Turconi, Romeo Maple street Skinner
Trainer, Richard Sargeant st. —Jolly Bros.
Thompson, John Bh street Paper Mill
Tucker, Joseph A. Canal street Kennedy Sullivan
 Taft, Michael High street Piper
Taylor, Charles L. Race street Holyoke Machine

  JURY LIST.

Name. Residence. Occupation. :
Turgeon, Louis H. Bridge street Building Mover
Thereault, Noel Bridge street Springfield Blanket

 Tiedemann, Gustave E. S. Bridge st. Clerk .
Tetrault, Adolph Main street Barber
V
 Vester, Julius R. Park street Germania
Vincent, Arthur R. Main street Druggist
Vincent, Anatole J. Cabot street Artist .
Vogel, William H. Ely street Valley Paper Co. |
| ,
Wall, John Pine street Contractor
Watts, Jonas A. Walnut street Janitor
Whitcomb, Eugene H. Walnut street Machinist
Whitten, Sumner H. Locust street Holyoke Machine Co.
Wolfenden, John Pine street Grocer
Wood, Mark Oak street Real Estate
Wyckoff, J. Lewis Elm street Smith White
Whitmore, James B. Cherry street Merchant
Wicks, William F. Charles street Overseer
Winkler, Henry Washingtonav. Supt. of Streets
Wood, Thomas H.  Charles street Bookkeeper
Wheelock, William F. Pleasant st. Painter
Woodruff, Joseph B. Hampden st. Coal Dealer
Wright, Austin E. West Holyoke Farmer
Williams, Fred S. Hampden st. Clerk
Webber, Frank C. Essex street Deane Steam Pump
Walsh, Michael Sargeant st. Machinist
Wright, William Plymouth pl. Alpaca
Wade, Frank Bh street Printer
Widdowson, William Center street Hadley Co.
Wall, John Bridge street C. Ranger
Winn, Lawrence E. Dwight st. Hadley Co.
- Wall, James Fountain st. Albion Paper Co.

JURY LIST.  
Name. Residence. Occupation.
Welch, Matthew F. Mosher st.
Whitcomb, Levi S. Race street Merrick
Whitehead, Horatio Main street Retired
Wassel, John Jackson street Teacher
Watt, Walter Main street U.S. Envelope Co.
Wells, Frank A. Main street Paper Maker
Wildner, August J. James street Grocer
Wisly, Jacques Adams street Printer
Y
Yenlin, Sebastien Park street Baker .
Young, William Commercial st. Dickinson Paper Co.
Young, Miles K. Walnut street Alpaca
THOMAS STANSFIELD, |
CHARLES U. ROY, |
PATRICK H. BRENNAN,
EDWARD A. KANE, CLERK,
Board of Registrars of Voters.

CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .. |
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSOoNS.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. ,
 William Grover.  —John O’Donnell.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss. |
 —Aug. Stursberg.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —Curtis Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —G. W. Burditt, C. B. Harris, S. F. Stebbins.
Ward  —Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew Walsh.
Ward  —W. D. Higgings, H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, John O’Connell, J. A. Sullivan.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —R. M. Fairfield, H. A. Pratt, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk: -—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.
'

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 William Grover. —Edw. O’Connor.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. Prentiss.
 Matthew Walsh.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —John Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
‘Ward  —C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler.
Ward  —S. J. Donahue Peter McKeon, E. A. Newton.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —Horace Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk —C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer— William Whiting. |
Messenger— J. H. Clifford.

 CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
-ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 William Ruddy.  —Maurice Lynch.
 —C. B. Harris.  —C. H. Heywood.
 --H. Springborn.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —S. J. Donoghue. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, G, H. Smith, E. Whitaker.
. Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J. S. Webber.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’Donnell.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M. Manning.
Ward  —A. D. Barker, J. E. Delaney, J. H. Newton.
Ward  —H. C. Ewing,  S. T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford (deceased), J. R. Howes.

CITY OFFICERS.  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, R. P. CraFTs.
ALDERMEN.

WARD. WABD.

 —M. J. Teahan.  —D. H. Donoghue.

 —G. H. Smith.  —C. H. Heywood.

 JH. Springborn.*  —G. P. Ellison.
  A. Stursberg. |
 —S. S. Donoghue.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.

| President, C. D. Colson.
Ward  —John Ford, Richard Patte, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaac Tirrell. —
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Michael Lynch, M. M. Mitivier. Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sullivan.
Ward  —E. W. Chapin, E. A. Ramsay, Porter Underwood.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.

*Resigned.

  ‘CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, LLIAM WHITING.
ALDERMEN.

WARD. WARD.

 —T. S. Grover.  —C. D. Colson.

  C. B. Harris.*  —D. E. Sullivan.
( G. H. Smith.  —William Skinner.

 A. Stursberg.t  —G. P. Ellison.
  James Stafford. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. E. Syms.
Ward  —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, E. F. Sullivan.
Ward  —James P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte-Marie.
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, E. O’Connor, Thomas Pendergast. ,
Ward  —Henry C. Cady, J. S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
| Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.

Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.

*Died March +Resigned.

 
CITY OFFICERS.  
so CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WiLtiAM WHITING.
| ALDERMEN.

WARD. WARD. .

 —William Ruddy.  —D. E. Sullivan.

'  —F. R. Norton.  —William Skinner.

 —Henry Winkler.  —William S. Perkins. |

 —Charles D. Colson.  Clerk, J. E. Delaney. |

a
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
i
President, John O’Donnell.
Ward  —G. C. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D. Walsh.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin P. Goodall.
Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.
Ward  —Victor Guyott, Peter McKeon, T. J. Ryan. ,
Ward —Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O’Donnell. |
Ward  —H. C. Cady, J. S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden W.

Prentiss. |
Clerk—Simon Brooks. |
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.

City Treasurer—James R. Howes.

  CITY OFFICERS. |
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
: Mayor, Witt aM Ruppy.
ALDERMEN. .
WARD. WARD.
 —John D. Walsh.  —John O’Donnell.
 —F.R. Norton.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —Henry Winkler.  —William S. Perkins.
 —James P. Casey. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James Greeley.
Ward  —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W. Maher.
Ward  —John L. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John McDonald.
Ward  —Pierre Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy J.
Ryan.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy Haley.
Ward  —Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A.
Whiting. |
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John B.
Munn.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS.  
,
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, F. P. Goopatt.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger.  —D. J. Landers. ,
 —Fred Morrison.  —E. A. Whiting.
 —P. J. Sheridan.  —R. Winchester. !
-  —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Hervey K. Hawes.
Ward  —Michael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel S. Chapman. |
Ward z—Royal C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller, Dwight O.
Judd. .
Ward  —Herbert Hicks, Lyman F. Thorpe,Charles R. Huebler.
Ward  —George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E. Herbert. |
Ward —James S. Lee, John F. Shea, Thomas Pendergast. |
Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H. Smith. !
Ward  —Charles C. Hastings, Lyman B. Moore, John B. Munn. :
Clerk—Simon Brooks. |
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.  
City Treasurer —C. W. Ranlet. :
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett. |

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Roswe.tt P. Crarts.
ALDERMEN.

WARD. WARD.

 —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.

 —lIsaac Tirrell.  —William A. Chase.

 —C. R. Huebler.  —W. T. Dean.

 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
: President, Amos Andrews.
Ward  —William Brennan, James Spillane, William H. Jess.
Ward  —E. R. Pierce, Joseph Beauchemin, Geo. W. Richards.
Ward  —S. K. McCarthy, D. Driscoll, W. E. O’Keefe.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward  ——Maurice Lynch, Thomas Pendergast, Michael O’Keefe.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, H. H. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk —J. F. Stapleton.
City Clerk —J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger—Charles M. Hackett. |

CITY OFFICERS. ,
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, RoswEtt P. CrarTs.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger. —John O’Donnell. ,
  —Isaac Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser. |
 —John T. Lynch.  —W. T. Dean. :
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin. —
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. O. Warner.

Ward  —William H. Jess, John M. Sheridan, M. C. Browne.

Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.

Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal.

Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, Frank S. Lynch, J. J. Prew.

Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sullivan.
 Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.

Ward  —C. C. Hastings, D. H. Ives, A..N. Ricker.

Clerk—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.

Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS. /
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JaMes E. DELANEY.
| ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —James Greeley.  —E. O’Connor.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  -—Elias P. Ford.
 —-John T. Lynch.  —C. C. Hastings.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
| COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey.
Ward  —George W. Richards, Didace Sainte-Marie, Thomas
H. Sears.
* Ward.  —John Lowcock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.
| Ward  —William Sullivan*, Matthew Doherty, Thomas O’Donnell, Amede F. Gingras.
Ward  —Roger P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody, Michaet
Manning.
Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli L. Brockett, John J. Reardon.
Ward  —Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M. Gilmore.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Died November .

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  )
Mayor, James E. Delaney.
ALDERMEN. |
WARD. WARD.
 —William Reardon.  —R. P. Donoghue.
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Eli J. Brockett.
 —J. K. McCarthy.  —John E. Clark. !
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.
Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G. McCarthy.
Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F. Doyle.
* Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F. Canavan.
Ward  —Thomas O’Donnell, P.F. Carmody, Matthew Doherty.
Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas J. Fitzgerald.
Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting, John L. Burlin, game.
Ward  —John K. Judd, S. B. Allyn, S. M. Gilmore,* George
W. Doane.
Clerk— John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—E. L. Munn. |
Messenger—William T. Walsh. |
| *Resigned. ,

  CIYY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  ‘
. Mayor, James J. O’Connor. ,
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. )
 —J. J. Sheridan.  s—R. P. Donoghue.

.  —Francis J. Curley.  —William E. Syms. |
 —James J. Curran.  John E. Clark. )
 —John Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John K. Judd. }

Ward  —James C. Keough, William A. Casey, Jeremiah G.
McCarthy.

Ward  —James H. Fitzsimmons, Edward Donahue, James W.
Toole.

Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J.
Westphal. |

| Ward  --James H. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning, Matthew

Doherty.

Ward  —James F. Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F. Greaney.

Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, Charles H. Whiting, Charles L. |
Newcomb. ,

Ward  —John kK. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M. Cain.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—M. J. Griffin.

City Treasurer— Oscar Ely. ,

Messenger— William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  :
Mayor, JAMES J. O’CONNOR.
ALDERMEN.
WARD WARD.
 —William H. Jess. —James F. Cleary.
 —James W. Toole.  —William E. Syms.
 —Henry Winkler.  —John Hildreth.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. :
President, James C. Keough.
Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholomew
J. Lynch. .
Ward  —Edward Donahue, Thos. J. Gibson, Nazaire Beliveau.
. Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bleumer.
Ward  —Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis S. Paquette.
Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.
Ward  —Charles L. Newcomb, Henry E. McElwain, J. Sanford
‘Webber.
Ward  —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Richard G.
Kilduff.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. :
City Clerk— Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer— Edwin L. Munn.
| Messenger— William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, James E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN,
WARD. WARD.
» —L. F. Hayward, Jr.  s—H. E. McElwain.
 —J. W. Toole.  —C. L. Newcomb.
  H. Winkler.*  —John Hildreth.
| M. Manning. |
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Michael J. Lavelle.
Ward  —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John Blasius.
Ward  —Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Beliveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C. Kelly.
Ward  —John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis Herbert.
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D. Perkins.
Ward  —Charles L. Allyn, Lucius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.
Ward  —George L. Thorpe, John Longeway, Jr., George V.
Osgood.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigned June  .

CITY OFFICERS.  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. ,
 —John C. Sullivan.  Richard Shea.
 —William B. Buckley.  —Dennie L. Farr.
 -——George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
 —Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
| President, J. J. Callahan.
Ward  -—-John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen. |
Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J. Kennedy.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J. Taylor.
Ward  —Patrick A. Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene
Shea. 
- Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W. Doran.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, C. L. Allen, James L. Davis.
Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George V.
Osgood. }
Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk— Michael J. Griffin. .
City Treasurer—Edward L. Munn. |
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN. ;
“WARD. WARD.
 —M. P. Conway.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  —C. D. Colson.
 George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
 —-N. J. Baker. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas Connor.

Ward  --William Brockway, Joseph A. Peltier, Maurice J.
Sullivan.

Ward  --Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C. O’Leary.

Ward  -—-Herman Heinritz, John J. Taylor, Onesime Viens.

Ward  --Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene Shea. .

Ward  --Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles McCollister.

Ward  --Lucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Mederic J. Laporte.
. Ward  --Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Frederick C.
Steele.

Clerk —John F. Stapleton. :

City Clerk— Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.

Messenger —William T. Walsh. ,

CITY OFFICERS.  T
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Micuae. J. GRIFFIN. :
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —M. P. Conway.  —J. J. Callanan.
 —T. J. Kennedy.  —J. P. Prescott.  Michael Connor.  —F. C. Steele. :
 —-R. P. Donoghue. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. :
President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway. John H. Ryan, Maurice J. Sullivan..
Ward  —John Black, Arthur B. C. DeLaunay, Cornelius
O'Leary.
Ward  —Max C. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Albert C. Renner.
Ward  —Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene Shea.
Ward  —John E. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel J. O’Connell.
Ward  —Mederic J. Laporte, Stephen E. Gifford, John B.
- Miller. |
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles McCollister, Henry D.
Williams.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. |
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien. 
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SuLiivan.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Haney.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —Antoine Marcotte.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. ,
President, Henry D. Williams.
Ward  —Joseph Hebert, Henry L. Mohan, John H. Ryan.
Ward  z—John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Paul Schubach.
Ward  —Frank O. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P. Sullivan.
. Ward  —William L. Bishop, Patrick H. Brennan, William B.
Miles.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, George E. Pickup, Frank C.
Webber. |
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. McCollister, Henry
I). Williams.
Clerk —John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger——-William T. Walsh. |

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, DENNIE L. Farr.
ALDERMEN.
. President, MICHAEL CONNORS.
WARD, WARD.
 —William Haney.  —J. J. Callanan.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —-—-Michael Connors.  —kR. B. Holmes.
 —T. J. Dillon. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.
 Ward  -—Patrick Gear, Joseph Herbert, David H. Toole.
Ward z—Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril T.
'  Labrecque.

Ward  --Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest R.
Tauscher.

Ward  —-Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O'Connor, Daniel P.
Sullivan.

Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.

: Linehan.

Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, John Naylor, Frank C. Webber.

Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M. Hartzell.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS. —
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MarcienE H. Waltcome.
| ALDERMEN.
President, Rurus B. HoLMEs.
WARD. WARD
 —T. J. Lynch.  —R. S. Burns.
 —F. St. Martin.  —James A. Allyn.
 —M. Connor.  —R. B.-Holmes. |
 —P. W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
| President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole,* John Daly, James
Wall.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest R.
Tauscher.
Ward  —Frank Fitzgerald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyme S.
Menard. |
Ward --Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Elbert Goss, Frederick N. Ricker, Edward N. White.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M. Hartzell.
Clerk— Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
a City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
“ City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigned.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, Henry A. CHASE.
ALDERMEN. :
WARD. WARD. "
 —Timothy J. Lynch. —Richard S. Burns.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —John Wall.
 —Richard H. Dietz.  —George H. Lynds.
;  —Thomas J. Lynch.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. 
b
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Edw. D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis O’ Leary.
Ward  -—Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendiville.
. Ward  --John H. Donoghue, Victor S. Laplante, William J.
Mahoney.
Ward  -—John J. McIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F. Sullivan.
Ward  --Edmund H. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan. a
Ward  --—Edwin M. Chase, Elbert Goss, Caleb, J. Humeston.
Ward  --Conrad V. Hein, Charles P. Randall, William O.
White.
Clerk-—Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk--Edward A. Kane. ,
City Treasurer-—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh,

  CITY OFFICERS. |
 CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. CURRAN. |
ALDERMEN.
President, Timothy J. Lynch.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.-  ——Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Adam Leining.  Frank Feather.
 Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCIL.
President, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary. |
Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr., Henry P. Cunningham, Patrick
H. Prendiville.
Ward  —John H. Connor, William J. Mahoney, Patrick W.
O’Rourke.
Ward  —William J. Dillon, John J. McIntee, John J. Riley.
| Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, Edward J. Kenney, William
O’Connell.
Ward  —William D. Bunnell, Thomas H. Kearney, Henry
Reed.
| Ward  —James Collingwood, Charles Randall, Homer J.
Stratton. |
Clerk-—John P. McTigue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .

Mayor, GEorGE H. SMITH.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).

Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining. |
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.

Homer J. Stratton.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). |

Salime J. Benoit. William J. Ryan.
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George A. Savoy.
Morris Hicks. James H. Staples.

Peter J. Westphal.

ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

WARD. WARD. .

‘  —Timothy J. Lynch.  -—Jeremiah J.. Linehan.
 —-Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 -—Frank Feather.  —Charles P. Randall.
 —-Patrick J. O’Connor.

City Clerk-—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer——Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—-William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
, Mayor, Hon. MIcHAEL CONNORS.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Hugh McLean.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan. .
| Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean. |
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx. |
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward  —Timothy J. Lynch. Ward  —Michael J. Doyle.
Ward  —Samuel Migneault. Ward  —Elbert Goss.
Ward  —/Frank Feather. Ward  —James H. Wylie, Jr.
Ward  —James S. Lacey.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane. |
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger, William ‘I. Walsh.

) CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Hon. ARTHUR B. CHapPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT.LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. William McCorkindale.
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Joseph J. Beaudry. J. Joseph Doran. ,
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. ,
Ward  —Timothy J. Lynch.
Ward  —Samuel Migneault. |
Ward  —Moritz Ruther. )
Ward  —Joseph A. O’Donnell. .
Ward  —Michael J. Doyle. ,
Ward  —William G. Beaudro.
Ward  —Frank B. Towne. .
Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committee—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Hon. ARTHUR B, CHapPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. William McCorkindale.
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. 
Ward  —John P. McTigue.
Ward  —Arthur R. Vincent.
Ward  —Herbert C. Clark.
Ward  Florence Donoghue.
Ward  —Michael J. Doyle.
Ward  —William G. Beaudro.
Ward  —Frank B. Towne.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

’
‘
‘
.
L}
.

'
 
é

| |
| |
|
. i
| |
|

TT
.  
y Bigiizern, of gle
Te eS ee



