  REPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS.
. MONTHLY EXPENDITURES.

MONTHS. LABOR. ‘SUPPLIES. TOTAL.
April, 
May, 
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  

) October,  
November,  
December, wee  
Totals for the year, 

|  LABOR AND SALARY PAY ROLL BY MONTHS.
MONTHS. LABOR. SALARY. TOTAL.
April, 
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  

September, .
October,  
November,    
December, ce 
Totals for year, 

BELOW IS DETAILED REPORT OF .
EACH OF THE PARKS. .
ELMWOOD PARK.

We had anticipated making start toward developing this
beautiful spot, but lack of funds forbid. We have, however, not
neglected it entirely, for we have had the landscape architect at |
work making the finished plans for same ready to commence
operations in the early spring and we hope before another year
passes to show some progress. On account of the peculiar
nature of the soil at the bottom of the ravine, we have been compelled to change somewhat from our first plan, and it is now contemplated to continue the present brick sewer up to Pine street,
thus avoiding the possibility of heavy damages there, by excessive high water in the early spring; it is also intended to run the
driveway on the north side instead of the south side. We have
placed new settees on this park, placed the tank house which was
on Hampden park in picturesque spot and supplied it with ice
water. liberal use of fertilizer has been used, which has
greatly enriched the grass. Some new shrubs have been added

. and generous use of flowers has helped to make it look attractive. new concrete walk on Jackson street has been put in
and we expect to finish up the work on this street as soon as the
curbing is laid.

HAMPDEN PARK.

No great amount of work has been done on this park, as
the park is now in fairly good condition. The turf edges bordering the sidewalks on the four sides of the park were relaid
this spring; the old tank house was replaced with suitable

| REPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS.
| drinking fountain, being great improvement over the house,
and it is the intention of the Board to make provision for cooling
the drinking water. The Board have in contemplation the
 erecting of sanitary for men, as well as suitable building with
conveniences for women.
PROSPECT PARK.

This park most truly deserves its name as it certainly affords one of the most charming views to be found in the valley.

Situated as it is on high elevation, the eye readily sweeps
the surrounding country for miles and sees the broad Connecticut with its green rolling meadows and Mt. Tom and Mt. Holyoke in the near distance making suitable foreground for the
many beautiful sunsets. Surely one might go far from home and
find no fairer sight and it is amply shown that thousands of the
citizens avail themselves of this observatory of nature. 

, All through the day the children flock here, passing many
happy hours, while the mothers sit near by enjoying the shade trees and flowers and the fine scenery close at hand.

The Board has extended the work of beautifying the grounds
with flowers and shrubs and intend to make still further additions this coming season. —

The residents of this part of the city have shown their appreciation of these improvements, by aiding the Park Keeper in
preventing the children from destroying the flowers and shrubs
and harming the grounds in general. The Board feels very
grateful and thanks them for their kind consideration and co-operation in the matter.

The greatest improvement and additions have been made on
this park, where we have erected fine sanitary for women. It
is very complete and convenient in every detail and it is situated
at the south end of the park at the head of High street. That it
was greatly needed is shown by the large number who made  use
of it, the average attendance being.over two hundred per day,
and yet it was not opened to the public until August Ist, three
months after the opening of the parks.

REPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS.  

Another jmportant step has been taken in the establishing
of playground for children, which we have started at the north
end of the park. We have put in some see-saws, swings and
sand courts; and next year it is our intention to put in merry-gorounds, gymnastic apparatus, and kindergarten playground for
very small children, and several minor improvements which will
add greatly to the happiness of the young folks.

The number of settees has been increased, thereby accommodating greater number of people during the band concerts and
the warm summer evenings when so many congregate to enjoy
the pleasures of the park.

The Board contemplates changing the band stand from its
present location to the north end, which will tend to lessen the
danger of injury to the flowers and shrubs by drawing the large
number of people who attend the band concerts to the upper
end of the park.

 We have under favorable consideration the following
general improvements: ;
Replacing the cinder walks with gravel.
Replacing the old water tank with suitable drinking
fountain, similar to the one placed in Hampden
Park, and using the tank-house for an observation house.

We would like to complete the improvements to this park

by erecting, next year, at the north end of the park, building
| which could be used for tool-house and storage, and also to
include sanitary for men. an ;

We also desire to remove the unsightly wooden fence
bordering the park next to the railroad and substituting therefor substantial stone wall; building portion of it each year as
the state of our finances will admit. In this matter we expect to
have the co-operation of the railroad company, who are interested
in tle project. We believe that this would assuredly add great
deal to the appearance of the park.

; )
te ,
 REPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS.
an CANONCHET PARK.

Very little has been done here this year. Before we can

) finish relaying the terrace it is necessary that the street west of

the park be accepted, so it can be hardened ‘and put in suitable

repair. very great addition to the park would be the placing

of curbing on the four sides, so that the sidewalks could be

finished, thus adding greatly to the general attractiveness. New

settees have been added, flowers were introduced for the first

time, and greatly to the credit of the vicinity, we can say that

not one was stolen during the season. We intend to place shrubs

in the various parts of the park during next season. We also

contemplate laying concrete walks through the park and stone

steps at the entrances; this isan important matter and must have
consideration during the coming year, as the walks become ina '

dangerous condition after any hard rain and they are now a

source of expense to maintain. It is also the intention of the

: Board to place fountain on this park where cool drinking water

may be had at all times.
HAMILTON PARK.

This park has been made attractive by liberal use of flowers
and shrubs, but being so small not much can be added to it. It
is too small for this section but there is no chance to enlarge it.
We consider it essential that the park should be better I:ghted at 
night; at present it is very unsatisfactory in this respect.

| GERMANIA PARK.

By taking out many trees which were so ‘thickly set on this
park, we have been able to make the grass and flowers do better
than in former years, so that the past season the park has been
quite attractive but it is altogether too small for this section
and cannot commence to accommodate all those who desire to }

| use it. Many comments are heard as to the inadequateness of
park area in this section, and it is unfortunate that this is not .
larger park for so thickly populated district, and composed so |

, |
| |
| REPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
largely of that class who seek to obtain breath of fresh air in
* the early evening after being confined indoors all day. More }
' hight is badly needed, owing to so many trees, and we hope to
. be able to put them in the coming season. We also desire to
erect sanitary for men on the south end of the park. '
, OTHER PARKS. :
/ Ranger and Elmwood triangles, two small plots, we have
 hot done anything with this year. Before they can be made at
- all satisfactory more land should be added to them. We are
desirous of making such additions when we have the funds
to do so. |
IN CONCLUSION.

We can only reiterate what we mentioned in our last report,
only more forcibly, viz.: That further additions should be made
and at once to our park areas: That they are altogether too
small for the wants and demands of our citizens. suitable
plot is badly needed in Ward One, as they have nothing of the ,
kind and this section is becoming thickly populated. Tenement
blocks are being rapidly built and it would appear as if for the
best interest and health of the city that suitable provision for a
park and playground should be made in the immediate future.

It is also very evident that new and larger park must be established somewhere in South Holyoke and that there should be as
little delay as possible, for with this district so densely populated
for so small an area, the people should not be compelled to
swelter in the hot brick blocks during the summer months. .

The people of the Highlands are longing for park and we
believe that it would be wise move to secure in the near future
a tract of land in this vicinity for park.

The demands of the people will soon be for one large park
of many areas, embracing wood Jand and water with drives,
walks and picnic grounds in the woods; such place would be a
valuable and attractive addition to our city and steps should be

, /
\ .
  REPORT OF THE PARK COMMISSIONERS.
taken to secure such tract while land is reasonable, even if it
- was not developed for some time to come.
We would therefore recommend that plot of ground be
secured in Ward One for park and playground somewhere in
the vicinity of Lyman and Ely streets. That park be established in Springdale bordering on the river and of suitable size
to admit of the growth in that vicinity. That land be purchased 
for park purposes on the Highlands and that consideration be
- given to our suggestion for establishing one large general park
reservation. .

In order that we may maintain the parks in proper condition
and carry out our plan of proposed improvement and, addititions, as well as the development of Elmwood Park, we recommend that the following appropriations be made for the coming

' year, viz. ,
For the care and maintenance of the various parks, 
For the development of Elmwood Park,  
For the continuation of the sewer,  
For additions to other parks,  
For the purchase of additional lands for park
purposes by park loan,  

We also call attention to the fact that we have no permanent
room for transacting our business, or for keeping our books, plans
and maps. They are growing more valuable and should be provided with suitable and safe keeping place. :

We respectfully submit the above for your approval and
consideration.

CHARLES E. MACKINTOSH, .

JAMES F. BURNS,

JOHN McNAIRN,  ,
MAX O. DREIKORN,
ANTOINE MARCOTTE,
December Board of Park Commissioners.
City of Holyoke.
\ |

OF THE
. |
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE,
FOR THE YEAR .
CESS
CIMINE. DS
HOLYOKE, MASS.
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING Co.
a  

' ‘
. /
) (
, Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF
CITY TREASURER. .
| OFFICE oF CiTy TREASURER,  )
HotyokE, Mass., Dec. ,
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Aldermen. |
GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the City Ordinance, I
have the honor of presenting to you the following report for the
fiscal year ending December :
RECEIPTS. |
The amounts received from various sources were credited to
sundry accounts, as follows: |
To alleys, —.  
Board of Health,  
Bills payable, temporary loans, |
City hall fund,  
City property, 
Contingent,  
. Corporation tax,  
| Fuel and street lights, oy  
Fire department,  
Highways and bridges, iy.  
Interest,  
License fund,  
Military aid, Civil war,  
Military aid, Spanish war,  
National bank tax, .. to.  

  REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.
Pauper department, . 
Police,  
Schools,  
Sewers,  
Sidewalks, Le  
State aid, Civil war,  
" State aid, Spanish war,  
Soldiers’ Relief,  
Whiting street fund, CO  
Thomas F. McCabe, taxes, “  ve 
,  ve 
v ‘“ wc 
“  “* interest, 
“  oe se  LO   :
ve sc oe 
Highways Permanent Works,  
Main street bridge, ..  
Sewers,  
Sidewalks,   
Sidewalks,   
Sidewalks,    
Municipal loan,   
$ 
Balance on hand December  
Total, $ 
EXPENDITURES.
- The amounts disbursed and charged to sundry accounts are
as follows:
To Assessors, $ 
Alleys, 
Board of Health,  

: \
REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.  
Bills payable temp. loans, 
City engineering,  
City Hall fund,  
City property,   —
Contingent,   —
Contingent, Board of Public Works,  
Corporation tax, moo  
‘County tax,  
Fuel and street lights, to  
Fire department,   Highways and bridges,  
Interest,  
License fund,  
Military aid, Civil war,  
Military aid, Spanish war,  
National bank tax,  
, ‘Overlayings,   Pauper department, fo,  
Parks, oo.  
Police, 
Public library, , 
‘Salaries,  
‘Schools,  
Sewers,  
Sidewalks,  
‘Street watering,  
State Aid, Civil war, Do,  
State Aid, Spanish war, .: mo  
Soldiers’ relief,  
‘Whiting Street fund,  
Water rent,  
Lyman mills’ case,.  
Municipal lighting case,  
Highland school,  
‘Ward One bath house,  
| ‘Ward Four bath house,  
Highways permanent works,  

| |
  REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.
Main street bridge, .. 
High school,  
School loan,   :
Municipal sinking fund commissioners,  
State Tax,  
Total payments, , 
Balance on hand December  
; .
BALANCE SHEET, NOVEMBER Dr.

“Realestate,  :
Holyoke Water Works, oe  
Holyoke and Westfield railroad stock, 
Municipal sinking fund commission,  .
Holyoke Water Commission (water sinking

fund), Lo  
Thos. F. McCabe, taxes of     
s “c ve     
“   
Cash, ,  
. 

. Cr.
City of Holyoke, , 
City debt,  
City debt exempted,  REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.  :
Sinking fund for City debt, 
Sinking fund for City debt exempted,  Water bonds sinking fund,  
Bills payable temporary loan,  
Corporation tax, ote  
Overlayings,  
Whiting Street fund, 
Assessors,  
Board of Health,   
City engineering, At
City Hall fund,  
City property,  
Contingent,  
. Contingent Board of Public Works,  
Fire department,  
Fuel and street lights, 
Highways and bridges,.  
Pauper department,  
Municipal lighting case, oe  Parks, .  
Police,  
Schools, .  
Street watering,   '
Sewers and drains, ote  
Sidewalks,  
Water rent,   |
, "
Respectfully submitted,
. PIERRE BONVOULOIR,
City Treasurer.

“  REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE.
Valued by the Board of Assessors in  .
SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND LAND.
School House, )
East Dwight and Bridge streets,  
Lyman and Center streets,  
Center and East Dwight streets,  
West and Samosett streets,  
| Park street, Ca,  
Sargeant street,   |
| Hamilton street,  
Main, Papineau and Temple streets, ..  
Temple street,  
Chestnut street, eo  
Elm street,  
Appleton and Maple streets,  
| Chestnut and Sargeant streets,  
High school, Pine and Hampshire streets,  
Carlton street,  
South street,  
New Elmwood, Carlton and Harrison avenue, 
Ewingville,. le  
Nonotuck street,  
New Highland, Nonotuck, Lincoln, Waldo |
and Allyn streets,  
Ingleside,  
West Holyoke,  
Back street,  
& 
ENGINE HOUSES AND LAND.
Engine House,
, Canal street, , 
+  Main street,  

REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.  Y
 Springdale avenue, Loo, :
; Chestnut street,  .
  High street,  
South street,  :
Hampden and Canby streets,  
| 
/
PARKS.
Elmwood park, , 
Canonchet park, , 
Coghlan park, . Hamilton park, mo,  
. Germania park, oe on  
Prospect park,  .
Hampden park, Hampden, Maple, Chestnut ,
and Dwight streets,  
Ewing park, ..  :
Ranger park,  
Laurel and Willow streets, triangle, to,  
| MISCELLANEOUS.
Land Berkshire, Race and Hancock streets, :
Hillside hospital, oe  |
Gravel pit,  
City farm, house and barn,  
City hall building, High and Dwight streets,  
City yard, barn and sheds,  
Ward  public bath house,  Ward  public bath house,  Land, Jefferson street, .. to  
$ 
Total value of real estate,  :
  REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.
STATEMENT OF BONDS PAYARLE, CONSTITUTING
THE GROSS DEBT.
  years, per cent school bonds, due May  year,  per cent municipal bonds, due June years, per cent, school bonds, due May |
  years, per cent municipal bonds, due June years, per cent municipal bonds, due July  years, per cent municipal bonds, due April —
  years, per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent municipal bonds, due June years, per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent municipal bonds, due June years, per cent municipal bonds, due July years, per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent municipal bonds, due June years, per cent municipal bonds, due June years, per cent municipal bonds, due Dec. years, per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent municipal bonds, due June  
, years, per cent municipal bonds, due Sept. years, per cent municipal bonds, due March years, per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent municipal bonds, due June .
  years, per cent municipal bonds, due July years,  per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent municipal bonds, due June  
: years, per cent refunding railroad bonds, due
October .- years, per cent echool bonds, due May years,  per cent municipal bonds, due June  years, per cent Holyoke and South Hadley
bridge bonds, due September   years, per cent school bonds, due May |
  years, per cent municipal bonds, due June |
  years, per cent school bonds, due May  

REPORT OF THE CITY TREASURER.  .
  years, per cent sewer bonds, due May years, per cent refunding railroad bonds, due
July  . years, per cent sewer bonds, due October years, per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent Holyoke and Willimansett .
bridge bonds, due June   years, per cent school bonds, due May —
  years, per cent school bonds, due June years per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent school bonds, due July |
  years, per cent school bonds, due March years, per cent school bonds, due May  
/ years, per cent school bonds, due May  
. years,. per cent school bonds, due May  
. years, per cent school bonds, due May years, per cent water bonds, due January  years, per cent water bonds, due July  
; Total funded debt, , 
| Hotyoxr, Mass., January .
I hereby certify that have examined the accounts of the
, Treasurer of the City of Holyoke for the year ending November
  and find same to be correct. have verified the balance
sheet of November showing cash on hand at that date
amounting to |
| FREDERICK  S. FULLER,
| Public Accountant.

 
é
‘
 
.
‘
Digitized by Google

| ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
} OF THE |
CITY OF HOLYORE,
FOR THE YEAR  .
Kee  Oo
SST ee. ,
| HOLYOKE, MASS. ,
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CO.
 

i
f .
“‘
*
‘ .
\
,
. eo
o
{
\
'
I
 |
 
‘|
. |
“Ty
.  
\
- .
—

REPORT OF
CITY ENGINEER. |
sO .
lo the Honorable the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the
| City of Holyoke, Massachusetts.
GENTLEMEN:—TI have the honor to submit to you the
twenty-ninth annual report of the City Engineering department.
The receipts and expenditures for the year are as follows:
RECEIPTS. |
By appropriation, .  .
By appropriation from salaries,  
By typewriter,  
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Salary of City Engineer, —. 
Salaries of assistants,  
Typewriter and desk,  
Oftice supplies, Lo, |
Level-rod and tape, ..  
Repairs on instruments, .
Printing and binding,  
Sewer record book,  
Engineering periodicals, —.  
Car fare and horse hire, 
Telephone,   
Towel supply, etc., |
Sundries,  
Balance unexpended,  
————— 

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
HIGHWAYS. |
There has been more work done of permanent character
in the highway department during the year than perhaps in any
' single year within the history of the city.
The granite block pavement on Dwight street, between
Race and Front streets, has been removed and replaced by vitrified brick laid on concrete base. portion of the blocks
removed has been laid on Lyman street on gravel base between
High and Front streets, where [Lyman street has per
cent grade. .
Vitrified brick has been laid on Lyman street from the end
, of the brick pavement laid in to Center street. It has also
been laid on that portion of Cabot street which was left unfinished last year, viz: That portion of the street north of the
| street railway tracks between the first and second level canals.
Bituminous macadam has been laid on Dwight street from
Elm street to School street, and on Maple street from Dwight
street to Suffolk street.

, Of the many kinds of modern pavements now being laid in
cities, there are none, so far as we know, which approach nearer
to the ideal pavement than bituminous macadam. This pavement is comparatively noiseless, non-slippery in all kinds of
weather, easily kept clean, satisfactory to ride over and sanitary. 
Besides, its advocates claim for it that it can be laid on the
gteeper grades with good results where other modern pavements

/ would prove failure. Dwight street, between Linden and
School streets, where this pavement has been laid has per
cent grade. Here the pavement, so far, holds up and wears the
same as that laid upon the more level grades. Neither have
there been any complaints about its slipperiness or of horses
falling thereon in wet weather. Wowever, there are other qualities which all desirable pavements should have and which bituminous macadam may or may not have. Of these wear oF
durability is the most important, which, if any pavement s- ,
sesses, practical experience alone covering series of years can
be the only proof. When this experience is acquired with bituminous macadam, if not found wanting, it can safely be said that |

— 

i
- |
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
f) .
a most desirable pavement has been introduced, which on account
of its comparative cheapness will be within the reach of small
villages as well as large municipalities.

Common macadam has been laid on Lyman street from

} Maple street to Pine street, while portions of several other streets
have been re-surfaced with it. ,

This road metal, although of less permanent nature than the pavements mentioned above, is far superior to gravel and
should in future be used entirely instead of the latter. To make
this possible stone-crushing plant, as suggested by the Board
of Public Works, should be installed at convenient point
alongside the street railroad tracks, now being built from Cherry
street to Hampden ponds, on the land of the city where trap rock
is in abundance and requires no quarrying. '

The right given to street railroads by the legislature of last
year, to carry road metal for town and cities, can be exercised
here. Consequently with favorable price paid to the Street
Railroad Co. for haulage, the installation of stone-crushing
plant, located as above mentioned, cannot prove otherwise but
beneficial to the city. |

The following is tabulated statement of the amounts and
cost of the several kinds of pavements laid during the year.

Kind of Pavement Location gy Yds Sa vd. ,
Vitrified Brick, Dwight street between Race and

Front streets,   

“ Lyman street between Bowers

and Center streets, . 
“ Cabot street between first and
second level canals, soe  
Granite Block, *Lyman street between Front
and High streets,  
Bituminous Macadam, Dwight street between School
and Elm streets,  
“ Maple street between Dwight and
Sutfolk streets,  .
Macadam, Lyman  street between Maple .
and Pine streets, 
Total,  ...  

* This price per square yard does not include the granite blocks

which were taken from Dwight street.

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
a
Of the many streets subject to heavy trafti there are none
which have received less attention in the past than Race street,
from Dwight street southerly. The surface of this street, judging from the numerous ruts or cradle holes which reappear, notwithstanding constant repair, has been considerably worn. Hence
it is recommended that the gravelly material of which this street
is made be wholly removed and be replaced by road material
of greater durability, especially that portion of the street from
a Dwight street to Appleton street.
The taking up and relaying of the asphalt blocks on High
street from Cabot street to Appleton street during the year
should be continued as tar as Hampden street the coming year,
| as also should the bituminous macadam laid on Maple street be
extended to Cabot street.
Another street which deserves attention and should have a
; permanent roadway is Appleton street from the end of the brick
pavement at Bh street to Dwight street.
STREETS ACCEPTED IN  |
Below is list of the streets acepted by the city during the
year with lengths, widths and established grades, also those accepted in previous years as far back as  )
; Width
. Name of Street. From To Length in ft. |
Summer Jackson Canal 
Waldo Allyn Lincoln ,
Worcester pl. Commercial Alley east of High  
The established grades of the above-named streets are as |
follows: ,
Name of Street. Intersection with Grade.
Summer Jackson  
Summer Canal  
Waldo Allyn  
Waldo Lincoln  
Worcester place Commercial  
Worcester place Alley rear of High and Commercial  

REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
; STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .
Width
Name of Street. From To Length in ft. in ft.
Cherry Northampton st. Hillside avenue  
Pleasant Highland ave. ft. northerly 
Jackson Main street ft. W. of  nd
level canal  
Lawler Northampton st. Martin street  
Sargeant ft. W. of Ist ft. E. of Ist
level canal level canal  
The established grades of the above-named streets are as
follows:
Name of Street. Intersection with Grade.
Cherry Northampton street .
Cherry point ft. W. from center of Northampton
street  
Cherry Hillside avenue  
Pleasant Highland avenue  
Pleasant point ft. northerly from center of Highland
’ avenue  
Jackson Main street  
Jackson East line of Race street  
, Jackson Race street  
Jackson East line of  nd level canal  
Jackson point ft. W. from W. line  nd level canal  
Lawler Northampton street  
’ Lawler Martin street  
Sargeant point ft. W. of W. line of  st level canal  
. sargeant The west line of  st level canal  
. Sargeant The east line of  st level canal  
Sargeant point ft. E. of E. line of Ist level canal  
. STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .

. Length Width.
Name of Street. From To in ft. in ft.
Jackson Maple st. Pine st.  

Allyn Nonotuck st. Northampton st.  
Ross ave. Maple st. Elm st.  

| Howard st. Hampden st. Lincoln st.  
Congress ave. Elm st. Chapin st.  
Arlington st. Lincoln st. Allyn st.  

|
  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
The established grades of the previous named streets are as
follows: ,
f
Name of Street. Intersection with Grade.
Jackson Maple street  
Jackson Chestnut street  
Jackson Elm street  
Jackson Walnut street  
Jackson point ft. westerly from the center of .
Maple street  
Jackson Franklin street  
Allyn Nonotuck street  
Allyn Waldo street  
, Allyn Willianis street  
Allyn Howard street  
Allyn Arlington avenue  
Allyn  Northampton street  .
Ross ave. Maple street  
Ross ave. Elm street  
Howard Hampden street  
Howard Allyn street  
Howard Lincoln street  
Congress ave. Elm street  
Congress ave. point ft. westerly from center of —
Elm street :
Congress ave. point ft. westerly from center of }
Elm street  
Congress‘ave. Chapin street '
Arlington ave. Lincoln street .
Arlington ave. point ft. southerly from center of
Lincoln street .
Arlington ave. Allyn street  
STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .
Nanie of Street. From To Length Width .
Arlington Hampden st. Allyn st. ,
Bh Hampden st. Dwight st.  Bowers Mosher line Pequot st.  
Bowers and .
Chestnut Sargeant st. Franklin st. 
Cook Myrtle ave. Washington ave.  

, \
! ‘
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
Name of Street. From To hen gin wit
Essex Locust st. Poplar st. ,
Franklin Commercialst. Chestnut st.  
Hampshire Oak st. Linden st.  
Locust Essex st. Cabot st.  
Myrtle ave.. Northamptonst. Harrison ave.  
. Olive ave. Dwight st. Beacon ave.  
a point feet east
Pequot Bowers st. of West st.  
Samosett Bowers st. Center st.  
Sycamore Appleton st. Cabot st.  
Williams Lincoln st. Allyn st. 
Olive ave. Dwight st. Beacon ave.  
The established grades of the above named streets are as
follows: ,
Name of Street. Intersection with Crade.
Arlington Hampden street  
Arlington Allyn street  
Bh Dwight street  
Bh Hampden street  
Bowers Bowers and Mosher line  
Bowers Samosett street  
Bowers Pequot street  
Chestnut Sargeant street  
Chestnut Franklin street  
Cook Myrtle avenue  
Cook Washington avenue .
Essex Locust street )
Essex Svcamore street  
Essex Poplar street  
Franklin Commercial street  
Franklin The westerly line of Commercial street  
Franklin The easterly line of High street  
Franklin High street  
Franklin Maple street  
Franklin Chestnut street  
Hampshire Oak street  
Hampshire Linden street  
| Locust Cabot street  
Locust Essex street  
Myrtle ave. Northampton street  

|
: |
{
;
  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER. ,
' |
Name of Street. Intersection with Grade. |
Myrtle ave. Cook street |
Myrtle ave. point feet easterly from center of !
| Northampton street ,
Myrtle ave. point feet easterly from center of
 Northampton street  
Myrtle ave. Harrison avenue ,
Olive ave. Dwight street |
Olive ave. point feet N. of the center of Dwight st. |
Olive ave. Beacon avenue  
Pequot Bowers street  
Pequot West street  
Pequot point feet east of West street  
Samosett Bowers street  
Samosett West street  
Samosett Center street  
Svcamore Appleton street  
, Sycamore Essex street  
Sycamore Cabot street  
Williams Lincoln street  
Williams Allyn street  
e \
STREETS ACCEPTED IN .
Length Width
‘ Name of Street. From To in ft. in ft. .
Charles Washington ave. Laurel st.  
Franklin Linden st. St. Jerome ave.  
Glen. Brown ave. Northampton st.  
James Main st. H. W. R. R. line  
Linden Sargeant st. Bh st.  
Locust Sargeant st. Franklin st.  
Mavnolia Sargeant st. Franklin st.  
St. Jeromeav. Dwight st. Sargeant st.  
Sargeant Oak st. Northampton st.  
Sycamore Hampshire st. Franklin st.  
. View Brown ave. Northampton st.  
; West Bowers and |
Mosher line Pequot st.  
Willow Brown ave. Laurel st.  

. .
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
The established grades of the previous named streets are as
follows. |
Name of Street. Intersection with Grade.
Charles Washington avenue  
Charles -Laurel street  
Franklin Linden street  
Franklin Locust street 
" Franklin Sycamore street  
Franklin Magnolia avenue  
Franklin §t. Jerome avenue  
Glen Brown avenue  
Glen point ft. west of center of Brown ave.  
Glen Northampton street  
James Main street  
James point ft. west of Main street  
James Temple street  
James point ft. west of Temple street  
Linden Bh street  
Linden Jackson street  
Linden Franklin street  
Linden point ft. north of Franklin street  
Linden point ft. north of Franklin street  
Linden Sargeant street  
Locust Sargeant street  
Locust Franklin street  
Magnolia Sargeant street  
Magnolia ave. Franklin street .
St. Jeromeave. Dwight street  
St. Jeromeave. Shawmut avenue  
St. Jeromeave. Farnum street  
St. Jeromeave. point ft. S. of the center of Farnum st.  
st. Jeromeave. point ft. S. of the center of Farnum st.  
St. Jeromeave. point ft. S. of the center of Farnum st.  
St. Jeromeave. Sargeant street Sargeant. Oak street 
Sargeant Linden street  
Sargeant Locust street  
Sargeant Sycamore street  
Sargeant Magnolia avenue 
Sargeant At angle west of Magnolia avenue  
Sargeant St. Jerome avenue  
Sargeant point ft. west of St. Jerome avenue  
Sargeant Northampton street  

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
Name of Street. Intersection with Grade. ‘
Sycamore Hampshire street  
. Sycamore point ft. south of Hampshire street 
' Sycamore Sargeant street 
Sycamore Franklin street  
View Brown avenue  
View point ft. west of Brown avenue  
View Northampton street 
West Bowers and Mosher line *
West Samosett street 
- West Pequot street  
Willow Brown avenue  
Willow point ft. west of center of Brown ave.  
Willow  point ft. west of center of Brown ave.  
Willow point ft. west of center of Brown ave.  
Willow point ft. west of center of Brown ave.  
Willow Laurel street  
STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .
Length Width
Name of Street. From To in ft. in ft.
Hampshire Linden st. Sycamore st. !
Linden Hampshire st. Sargeant st. |
Locust: Cabot st. Sargeant st.   {
Allyn Pleasant st. Nonotuck st.  
Laurel Brown ave. Northampton st.   |
The established grades of the above named streets are as
, follows.
Name of Street. Intersection with Grade.
Hampshire Sycamore street  
. Hampshire Locust street  
Hampshire Linden street  
Locust Sargeant street  
Locust Cabot street  
Linden Sargeant street  
Laurel Brown ave.  
- Laurel point ft west of Brown avnuee  
Laurel point ft. west of Brown avenue  
Laurel point ft. west of Brown avenue  
Laurel point ft. west of Brown avenue  
Laurel Northampton street  
Allyn Pleasant. street  
Allyn Pearl street  
Allyn Nonotuck street  

, REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  

THE FOLLOWING TABLE IS LIST OF THE STREETS |
ACCEPTED TO DECEMBER .

Street.  From To se
Adams Main Canal  
Allyn Pleasant Northampton  
Appleton West Dwight Winter  
Arlington Hampden Lincoln  
Beacon avenue Pleasant Northampton  
Bh Hampden Northampton  
Bond Appleton Cabot  
Bowers Pequot Bowers-Mosher line  

‘Bridge Cabot Canal |
Brooks avenue O’Connor avenue Hampden  Brown avenue South Dingle  
Cook Myrtle avenue Washington avenue .
Cabot Canal Oak  
Carlton Chapin Northampton  
Canal Cabot Main  
Center Lyman Samosett  
Cherry Northampton Hi)lside avenue  
Chapin Gates Carlton  
Chapin South Carlton  
Charles South Laurel  
Chestnut Franklin Prospect  
' Clinton avenue Miller avenue Dwight  
Commercial Cabot Jackson  
Congress Elm  Chapin  
Crescent Park Appleton  
Dwight Northampton B. M. R. R. line  
' East  Crescent Park  
East Dwight Center H. W. P. Co. land  
Elm South Davis  
Elm Sargeant Prospect  
Ely Summer Ely court  
Essex Bond Poplar  
Fairfield avenue Pleasant Nonotuck  
Fountain Front Elm  
Franklin Commercial Chestnut  
Franklin Linden St. Jerome avenue  
Front Lyman Dwight  
Glen Brown avenue Northampton  
Hamilton Canal Race  
\

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
Length —
Street. From To in ft.
Hampden Front Pine  
Hampden Linden Northampton  
Harrison avenue South Washington avenue  
High Franklin Prospect  
Hampshire Commercial Sycamore  
Highland avenue’ Pleasant Nonotuck  
Howard Hampden Lincoln  
Jackson Main Canal  
A point ft. w.
Jackson Main of second ve  
canal
Jackson Maple Pine  
James Main H.& W.R.R. line  
John High Front  
Laurel Brown avenue Northampton  
Lincoln Nonotuck Northampton  
Linden Prospect Bh  
. Lawler Northampton Martin  
Locust Essex Franklin  
Lyman Canal Prospect  
Magnolia Sargeant, Franklin 
Main Race Prew avenue  
Maple Scuth Prospect  
Miller avenue Clinton avenue Hampden  
Myrtle avenue Harrison avenue Northampton  
Newton Appleton Cabot  
Nonotuck Dwight Highland avenue 
Northampton Northampton line Main  
North Bridyre Canal East Dwight  
North East Mosher H. W. P. Co. land  
North Canal Lyman Lyman  
North Summer Lyman Ely  
Oak Dwight Sargeant  
O’Connor avenue Dwight Brooks avenue  
Olive avenue Dwight Beacon avenue  
Oliver Front High  
Park Crescent Canal  
Pear] Hampden Highland avenue 
( point ft. Pequot Bowers east of West  D
Pine Lyman Sargeant 
Pleasant Appleton Beacon avenue  

: j
. :
\ ;
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
Street. From To Len ath .
A point ft.N.) |
Pleasant. Hampden of Highland ave. 
Plymouth place, Commercial Alley east of High  
Prospect Front Hampden  
Race Main  Sargeant oO
Ross avenue Maple Elm  
. Russell terrace Carlton South  
— Samosett Bowers Center  
Sargeant Canal Northampton  
F Summer Cabot Adams  
Summer Jackson Canal )
. South Maple Northampton  
- Spring Park Race  
Bh Appleton wn
Suffolk Walnat Railroad  
St. Jerome avenue Sargeant Dwight  
Sycamore Appleton Cabot .
Sycamore Hampshire Franklin  
Taylor Hampden Land of R. T. Prentiss ‘
Union Lyman Prospect  Vernon Main H. W. R. R. line  
View Brown avenue Northampton  
Waldo Hampden Beacon avenue  
Waldo Allyn Lincoln  
Lyman Cabot ;
Walnut Sargeant Hampshire  
Washingtonavenue Chapin Northampton  
West Pequot Bowers- Mosher line  )
Williams Lincoln Allyn  
Willow Brown avenue Laurel  
Worcester place Commercial Alley east of High  
ae Feet,  
‘ Miles,  
BRIDGES.
The most important problem in this department during the
 year was the construction of new bridge on South Main street
over the third level canal. To build an economical structure of
the deck type having single span of feet and feet ip
width, or the width of the street, would be simple achievement

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
were the depth of the structure not limited to three feet three
inches below the street grade. It is needless to say the erection |
of first-class structure at reasonable cost, having none of its |
parts standing above the grade line, which the Board of Public |
 Works and citizens at-large desired, was under such restrictions, |
out of the question. It was not until after considerable study of :
the problem that plan or design was developed which com- |
plied with these restrictions and in accordance with which the |
bridge has been built. This design provided for structure hav-  |
ing three spans of thirty-three feet and three inches each instead |
of single one of one hundred feet. The piers dividing the |
spans to be built not of masonry but of columns which would retard as little as possible the flow in the canal. For this purpose
a row of cast iron columns filled with Portland cement concrete
and set twelve feet on centers was proposed for each pier.
The bottom of the canal at this point was found, on exam- ,
' ination made by hydraulic boring, to be bed of fine sand from ,
sixty to sixty-five feet in thickness. The problem of securing :
good foundation for the columns on such material was serious
one, especially since it was well known that wooden structure
of two spans which stood there previous to the one now going
to be replaced had collapsed owing to the failure of the pier
which the current had undermined. How the problem was
solved and all the other limited conditions and requirements satisfied, are shown in the plans and need not be described here.
Suffice to say that first-class metal structure of the deck type
one hundred feet in length and seventy feet in width, having a
vitrified brick roadway, concrete sidewalks and doubled tresked
for electric railway service has been erected ata cost of  ”
or about  per square foot of surface area.
Rivers Young of Willimansett, Mass., were the contractors who executed the contract to the satisfaction of the city.
: It would be unworthy of your Engineer not to express his
thanks to the Water Power Company for granting permission to
the city to place columns in the canal, or not to acknowledge the
advice rendered and courtesy shown by the ofticials of this comREPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
pany all through from the time the construction of the bridge
was first proposed until finished.

The wooden bridge on Jackson street over the second level
canal, which was in course of construction at the end of the last
fiscal year, was finished and opened to travel in January.

Sidewalks were added to the'wooden bridge on Sargeant
street over the first level canal at cost of .

All the other bridges in the city are in the usual condition.
The Dwight street bridges over the first and second level canals

have been painted, and all the other canal bridges, with the
exception of the wooden bridge over the first level canal at
Sargeant street, have been replanked.

Because of the increasing traffic, the plank roadways of our
bridges wear out much sooner than formerly, thus increasing the
cost of maintenance considerably.

When the county bridge between this city and South Hadley
Falls was built in it was then the general opinion of the
experts in this line that the plank roadway would not have to be
renewed oftener than once in three years. Experience has
shown, however, that this opinion was erroneous, as the planking
has to be renewed once in two years.

Common plank roadways should no longer have any place
in first-class municipal bridge construction, consequently all new
structures built, connecting our main thoroughfares, should have
permanent roadways.

It is recommended that such steps be taken by the city this
year to have the N. Y., N. I. IH. Railroad Company raise and
lengthen the bridge crossing South Main street. This bridge
should be raised at least two feet and lengthened to the full:
width of the street.

|
; |
  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF THE CITY. |
.  b) GO
Location.  SB Areaof |/Width of| Area of
gi Roadway./@) Walks.| Walks.
|  ZB
.  '
South Hadley Falis(county bridge)
eight SPADS....... . seesee| ft. Sq.ft.| ft. sq. ft.
Bridge street at Valley Mill.......  ft.;  sq.ft.| ft. sq. ft.
Lyman street over Ist level canal]  fs./ sqft.| ft. sq. ft.
; Lyman street over  level canal)  ft.|  sq.ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Dwight street over ist level canal
(brick road and concrete walk)!  ft.|  sq.ft} ft. sq. ft.
Dwight street over  level canal
(brick road and concrete walk)  ft.|  sq.ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Appleton streetoveristlevelcanal)  ft.|  sq.ft.| ft.  sq ft.
Appleton street over  dlevel canal}  ft.|  sq.ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Cabot street over Ist level canal  ft.|  sq. ft.| ft. sq. ft.
Cabot street over  level canal  ft.}  q.ft.| ft.  sq ft.
Cabot street over  rd level canal
(granite road and concrete walk)|  ft.|  sq.ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Sargeant street over Ist level canal  ft.|  -q.ft.| ft. in.|  ,. sq. fe.
Sargeant street over  dlevelcanal|  ft|  sq.ft| ft. sq. ft. |
Jackson street over  level canal  ft.|  sq.ft.;  ft. in.| ft.
Main street over  rd level canal  ft  sq.ft.|  ft. sq. ft. ’
Willimansett (county) bridge,three I
Hi nee aS  ft./ sq ft.| ft. sq. ft. ,
Willimansett bridge (approach)...|  ft.|  sq.ft.|  ft. sq. ft. |
Foot bridge over B. M. R. R. }
tracks at Dwight street..........| |......J..s ec ]  ft. sq. ft. |
Totals...... scec s} sq. ft.  sq ft. |
I
SEWERS. |

A new sewer has been laid in Hitchcock street from Northampton street to Martinstreet. It is built of Akron pipe feet in ,
diameter for distance of feet, and inches in diameter, '
for the remaining distance, feet. |
, This sewer has been designed sufticiently large to discharge
all the sewage and run-off from the territory draining thereto

| except that from phenomenal storms.

The other sewers constructed during the year consist of an
 -inch Akron pipe laid in Nonotuck street southerly from the
Dwight street sewer into which it discharges;  -inch Akron
pipe in Martin street from Hitchcock street southerly, discharging
into the Hitchcock street sewer;  -inch Akron pipe in Railroad street from the Suffolk street sewer southerly to the alley in

/

REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
the rear of Suffolk and Division streets, thence ten-inch pipe
westerly in the above mentioned alley to the alley east. of High
street; and an  -inch Akron pipe in Grant street from the
Columbus street sewer northerly distance of feet.
Forsome.years past the sewer in Hampden street between

vy

; to

int

er

\ ey

‘d.

 

, ss

Ze

at

ed

ft

ed

er

be

he

n,

in

 e

re
w vue walnut street outlet nuisance and the proposed
System, both of which have been commented upon in

"eports of this department.
Below is tabulated list of the sewers laid during the  

“nd also list of the catch basins built during the year.

|
: |
  REPORT ‘OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF THE CITY. |
re) i) be wo
LocaTIon. bod Se {| Areaof sa Width of} Area of
|  Roadway. ss Walks. Walks.
Sc
B
L
oo
D
D
A
A
C
C
C
 
SI
J
N
v
a)
E
’ Ud
(
lat TPOom pucnumenual SLULILIS. ,
he other sewers constructed during the year consist of an
ch Akron pipe laid in Nonotuck street southerly from ‘the
‘wight street sewer into which it discharges;  -inch Akron
pipe in Martin street from Hitchcock street southerly, discharging
into the Hitchcock street sewer;  -inch Akron pipe in Railroad street from the Suffolk street sewer southerly to the alley in
|
|

REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
the rear of Suffolk and Division streets, thence ten-inch pipe
westerly in the above mentioned alley to the alley east of High
street; and an  -inch Akron pipe in Grant street from the |

Columbus street sewer northerly distance of feet.
For some years past the sewer in Hampden street between
. Nonotuck and Pleasant streets has, from time to time, in heavy
storms become surcharged, thus causing considerable damage to
the abutting properties by the flooding of cellars. To prevent
like occurrences in future the plan of laying an auxiliary sewer
  inches in diameter along side of the present one from Nonotuck street to the man-hole located at the intersection of the alley
east of Taylor street and Hampden street had been proposed.
At the latter point the Hampden street sewer is increased to  
feet in diameter which with its steep grade has discharging
capacity considerably greater than the aggregate of the discharging capacities of all the sewers contributing to it, including that
of the proposed new sewer. The plan proposed, also provided
that the present sewer with all its connections would be left
undisturbed and that the new sewer would only be connected
with it at the different man-holes, and then only when the older
‘sewer would be running nearly full. This iatter feature to be
accomplished by weir placed in tlhe man-holes between the
sewers.
| The Board of Public Works saw the feasibility of the plan,
the result being that the auxiliary sewer as proposed is now in
course of construction and will be finished in few weeks.
In the coming year sewer should be laid to drain the
houses abutting Main street southerly from the railroad bridge
| over Main street at South street. sewerage system should be
built for the inhabitants of Ingleside, and your attention is called
to the Walnut street outlet nuisance and the proposed Highland
| system, both of which have been commented upon in previous
reports of this department.
Below is tabulated list of the sewers laid during the year,
and also list of the catch basins built during the year.

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
CATCH BASINS BUILT IN  .
LocATION. STREET OR STREETS. CONNECTED WITH
SEWER IN
East side, between
Lyman H’pden
streets ........../Chestnut...................../Lyman street
, S. W. corner.....|/Dwight and Bh............;Dwight street
N. W. corner ....|/Dwight and Oak..............|/Dwight street
N. E. corner .....| Dwight and Pine.............|Dwight street
N. W. corner ....|Elm and South...............|/South street
S. W. corner.....|Hampshire and Elm..........|/Alley rear Chestnut
and Elm streets
S. W. corner.... |Hitchcock and Dexter........|Hitchcock street
S. W. corner. ...|Hitchcock and Martin........|Hitchcock street
N. W. corner -:: |Hitchcock street and Holyoke
Street Railway, right of way .|Hitchcock street
Alley rear........{Oak and Linden, S. of Cabot../Alley rear Oak and
Linden streets
N. W. corner...../Sargeantand Maple...........|/Sargeant street ;
W. side..........]School...................++++./ Chool street
Alley rear ......./So. Bridge and Summer, nearjAlley rear Bridge and
Canal......................, Summer streets
Alley rear .......|Bridge and East, ft. S. of|Alley rear Bridge and
Hamilton...................| East streets
Alley rear ......./Summer and Canal, S. of Sar-|Alley rear Summer
geant.......................| and Canal streets
N. W. corner. .../Bigelow and Cabot ...........|Holyoke Water Co.'s
penstock
) BATH HOUSES AND SANITARIES.

Two new public bath houses, one in Ward One and the other
in Ward Four, have been constructed at cost of  and
$  respectively. With this increase in the number of bath
houses, making total of four, it is unnecessary to say that these
sources of amusement for the young have been liberally provided.
The great popularity of these institutions cannot be better de- —
scribed than by stating that the number of bathers in the warmer
months, July and August, was on an average, per day
besides large number of adults who took shower baths in the
evening. In the report of this department for  when the ]

REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
first public bath house was built, full description of this type of
summer bath house was given, hence it is unnecessary to recapitulate here.

SANITARIES.

Two sanitaries have been provided for public use within the
year, one fitted up in the rear of the basement of the City
Hall at cost of  and the other built in Prospect Park at a
cost of While these public sanitaries and bath houses,
erected in the most populous districts of the City, are small
matters in themselves, yet the idea of such institutions indicates
a spirit of progress and advancement of which every citizen may
feel proud. .

. SIDEWALKS AND CURBING.

For the number of lineal feet of curbing and square yards of :
new and re-covered sidewalks laid together with all the work
done in connection with maintenance, etc., you are respectfully
referred to the report of the Board of Public Works.

WATER WORKS.

The most important engineering work done in the Water
Department during the year was the preparation of plans and
specifications for the new high service reservoir dam. Surveys, —
profiles and contour maps relating to the same and to the reser- :

 voir and water shed; maps, profiles and computations prepared
for the Shoals water damage case; plans and profiles for the raising of the tracks of the Holyoke and Westfield railroad to an
elevation three feet higher at point in close proximity to
Ashley reservoir, where in times of high water the road bed was
endangered surveys, defining of boundary lines by stone monu
ments and record maps, and profiles on large scale, of the pipe
lines from Ashley and Whiting street reservoirs; surveys defining

 boundaries, the placing of stone monuments therein, and record
| ‘maps of lands purchased in the early history of the Water Works
and since then; surveys correcting and re-locating boundary lines

|  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
and corners of lands purchased, which were never located on the
, ground at the time of transfer by the grantors, because of not
knowing where these boundary lines were. This may seem
strange, but is nevertheless true as it is nothing unusual for
parties to own woodland property and mountain territory without
any correct knowledge whatever of where the boundary lines
and corners are located,

The Water Board is to be commended on its policy in hav- .
ing all the landed property belonging to the water works well ;
defined by stone monuments set in the boundary lines and full
and complete record maps made of the same.

MAPS, PROFILES, PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
Prepared and placed on file from December to December .
 MAPS. ,
Contour map of Elmwood park.
Map of Mt. Tom reservation. ,
Cross section map of Elmwood Park.
 Map of city from Northampton line to West Springfield line
and embracing large portion of West [Holyoke territory. |
MUNICIPAL LIGHTING.
General plan of electric light plant. |
DRAWINGS FOR CITY SOLICITOR.
, Plan of .accident location on Hamilton street near Bridge

street, Delisle versus city of Holyoke.

Plan of accident location at corner of West street and Kast
Dwight street, O'Connor versus city of Holyoke.

Plan of Hampden street sewer and drainage shed, Rigali
versus city of Holyoke.

Profile of Hampden street sewer. ,

. Map of water shed of ITampden street. sewer west of Northampton street. )

” ’
.  
a "WPM

'
'
LJ .
’
t
 
a
'
|
r
hi
|
'
r


, |
ah Arteaannage
. ‘é
‘ ‘
!

:
]
f
I

‘ .

‘ ,
i
(
(
‘
f



‘

i
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
STREETS.

Profile of old county road from Elmwood to Springdale.

Profile of Cherry street.

Plan and profile of Summer street between Jackson and
Canal streets.

Plan and profile of Waldo street between Lincoln and Allyn:
streets.

Plan and profile of Worcester place between Commercial
street and alley east of High street. :

MISCELLANEOUS.

Plan and profile of Hampden street sewer from Brooks ave- .
nue to Nonotuck street for new twenty-four inch sewer.

Plan of Elmwood park east of Maple street showing the
wells of the American Writing Paper Company.

Plans and specifications for building at the city yard for
ottices, shops and storage.

Plans and specifications for metal bridge over the third level
canal on South Main street. |

Plans and specifications for sidewalk on South street bridge
over the Holyoke and Westfield railroad.

Plan for subway connecting Winter and Bridge streets.

Plans for addition to the Sargeant street school building.

Plans and specifications for women’s waiting room and sanitaries for Prospect park. |

Plans and specifications for bath houses in Wards One and
Four. :

Plans and specifications for shed for shooting range tor
Company D.

Plan of Ranlet property adjoining Elmwood park.

Plans for offices for IEolyoke Water department.

Plans and specifications tor new sidewalks on Dwight street
bridge, over the second level canal. |

Sketch of Alms [louse property adjoining Whiting farm.

Plans of City Ifall entrances for storm door estimates.

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
Plan of catch basins overtiowing into canals.

Studies for municipal lighting offices in old library room in

City Hall.
BUILDING INSPECTOR.

The accompanying table presents statement of the plans
and specifications for buildings to be erected within the fire
limits, which have been accepted and placed on file in this office
during the municipal year ending December .

AREA OF CITY PROPERTY.
SCHOOLHOUSE LOTS.

Appleton street school, sq. ft.
Back street school, to  
Bridge street school, 
Carlton street school, 

| Chestnut street school, 
Kast Dwight street school, J,  ,
Hamilton street school, “
Elm street school,   *
High school (Pine street), “
Ingleside school, 
Lyman street school, “

- Nonotuck street school, “
Park street school, *
Sargeant street school, +e “

School street school, 
South street school, “
South Chestnut street school,  
Springdale school (hose house), 
Temple street school, “
West street school, *
West Holyoke school, “|
Highlands Grammar school, “
Springdale Grammar school, 

, 

Total,   gq. ft

|

REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
ENGINE HOUSE LOTS.

Ward  Canal street (Mt. Tom), sq. ft.
Ward  Main street (Relief), 
Ward  South street (Dexter hose), *
Ward  Chestnut street (Emerald), 
Ward  High street,
Ward  West Hampden street (Highlands), 

Total area,   sq. ft.

PARKS. |

Canonchet Park, sq. ft.
Elmwood Park,   *

; Germania Park, ,  
Hamilton Park,   
Hampden Park,  
Prospect Park, wo, 
Park at junction of Appleton and Dwight streets, 
Park at junction of Appleton and Suffolk streets, 
Park at junction of Laurel and Willow streets, *

Total area,   sq. ft
  acres
MISCELLANEOUS.
City Hall lot,   sq. ft.
City yard,   
City Gravel bank,   acres
Almshouse farm,   
Pest house farm, *
STATISTICS OF THE CITY OF HOLYOKE,  .
Population, May  (U.S. census),  
Population, May  (school census),  
Number of voters,  
Number of polls, —.  

|
  REPORT’ OF THE CITY ENGINEER.

Public schools, enrollment (day),  
Public schools, enrollment (night),  
Parochial schools, enrollment,  
Area of city,   sq. miles
Greatest extent north and south, &

Greatest extent east and west, D.  

Park area,   acres
Country roads, re miles
City streets (accepted), “
City streets (unaccepted), &
Asphalt block pavement, 
Granite block pavement, “—
Vitrified brick pavement, 
Common brick pavement, Lo. 
Bituminous macadam, 
Macadam,   
Sidewalks and crossings, 
Water mains, wo oF  .
Streets watered,   
Sewers,   &
River front,   
Electric railroads, Bd  
Steam railroads, *&
Railroad stations,  
Street lights, electric (arc),  
Street lights, electric (incandescent), —.  
Street lights, oil,  
Street lights, gas,  

Dwelling houses,  +, 
School houses,  
bath houses, .!  
Business colleges,  
Churches,  
Police station, tne  
Fire engine houses, i)
Fire alarm boxes,  

oy .
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
Hook and ladder truck,  
Fire hydrants, 
Post offices,   )
Area assessed,   acres ,
Valuation, real estate, 
, Valuation, personal, fa, .
Tax rate per oo,  
In conclusion desire to express my grateful appreciation
to your Honor, to you, the Honorable Board of Aldermen, to the
Board of Public Works and its officers, to the City Solicitor, and
to the heads and officers of the several departments for the unreserved co-operation so kindly extended to this department. |
Respectfully submitted,
, JAMES L. TIGHE,
City Engineer.

IN +
 
‘ i}

I
i
‘
:
a
, }
|
|
; ;
:  d
,
i

d
e
a

SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYORE,
FOR THE YEAR  .
KSIBIAETAN
’ WOOLY OKE-SS,
CHEZ
SSIMINE. DY
HOLYOKE, MASS.
| TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CoO,
  |

) Digitized by Google

REPORT OF
Established January by his Honor, the Mayor, under
| the provisions of Title Six, Section Thirty-four, of an Act to Revise the Charter of the City of Holyoke, which provides for
appointment of members by the Mayor without confirmation.
| Organized January .
ORGANIZATION FoR  .
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires February,  
Oren D. Allyn, Term expires February,  
Gilbert Potvin, Jr., Term expires February,  
CLERK.
James L. Tighe, City Engineer, Term expires February,  
ASSISTANT CLERK. |
; Oscar C. Ferry, elected January by the Board under |
: Civil Service Rules.
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD AND THEIR TERMS SINCE ORGANIZATION.
James IT. Newton, Chairman, January to
December )
*Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, January .
William B. Reid, January to
February .
TOren:D. Allyn, January .
#Gilbert Potvin, Jr., February .
*—-Reappointed February  and February .
+t—Reappointed February .
+—Reappointed February ;

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
PERSONNEL OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR WORK. "
Henry Winkler; elected annually by the Board. Term expires March .
| INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS. |
Fred H. Gilpatrick; appointed by the Mayor. Term expires |
February,  .
LAMPLIGHTER. .
Peter J. Kingsley; elected by the board.
FOREMEN OF OUT-DOOR DEPARTMENT.
. William Rooney; appointed by Superintendent of Streets,
under civil service rules.
Maurice F. Warren; elected by the Board, March under civil service rules.
Patrick Fitzgerald; elected by the Board, April under
civil service rules.
FOREMAN OF ALLEY DEPARTMENT. 
Richard Shea; elected by the Board April under civil
service rules.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

City oF HoLyoxe, MASSACHUSETTS. .

Office of the Board of Public Works. December .
Hon. Arthur B. Chapin, Mayor, and the Honorable, the Members of the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN :—We herewith present the sixth annual report of the Board for the year ending November .

For detailed report of the work done in the department

, we refer you to the exhibits hereunto annexed.

The most important work done the past year was the building of new bridge across the third level canal on Main street at
a cost as follows:

Contract, : 

Inspection, 

Appliances for suction hose, steam fireengines, ..  

Paving approaches necessitated by widening street,  
: 

For-a complete description of this bridge we refer you to
the report of the City Engineer.

Dwight street from Elm street to School street and Maple
street from Suffolk street to Dwight street were paved with bituminous macadam. Vitrified brick pavements were laid on Lyman street from Center street to point east of Bowers street to
connect with the pavement already on that street, on the north
side of Cabot street between the first and second level canals
and on Dwight street from Race street to the easterly side of
Front street. On this street the granite paving was taken up and
laid on Lyman street from Front street to High street. new
macadam roadway was laid on Lyman street from Maple street to
Pine street. |

Much routine work was done including the resurfacing of
Dwight street macadam from Maple to Elm streets and Ely street
along its entire length and relaying the asphalt block paving on
High street from Appleton to Essex street.

The public sanitary in the City [all was completed early in
the year at cost of This has been greatly appreciated
and largely used.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
| ALLEY DEPARTMENT.

The expense of the alley department has been increased over
  by the increase in the contract price for the collection of
garbage together with an improvement all along the line in the
collection of refuse matter. This department must be provided
with an appropriation of at least .

The improvements at Elmwood Park at Maple street made
possible by the extension of the culvert and the filling in of the
land by the ashes collected by this department have made most
pleasant change in the landscape there.

The saving to this department in the length of the haul and
the value of the land made by the fill, will we believe justify an
appropriation for an extension to the culvert.

| CITY PROPERTY.

The number of new buildings constructed by the city during
the last few years has materially increased the expense of this
department, especially in the maintenance account. .

Some of the buildings are sadly in need of new sanitary
arrangements.

| The proper care of the buildings and the installing of such
new work as is urgently required demands that an appropriation
of sufficient size be given.

The expenditures made this year for the construction of two
new bath houses and the maintenance of the existing ones have, 
we believe, met with the approval of the people of the city.
The expense of maintaining these houses should be taken into
consideration in fixing the appropriation of this department.

The buildings at the yard are in our opinion disgrace to
the city of Holyoke. Suitable buildings for the storage of valuable carts and machines are necessity and the policy of providing such buildings was long ago established by other progressive
cities. The buildings should contain suitable accommodations,
not only for storage purposes, but for the repair of tools and

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
other implements used by the city. We sincerely hope that an
appropriation for necessary buildings at the yard may be given
us the coming year.

| FUEL AND STREET LIGHTING.

. The conditions existing in the coal fields have caused a
heavy drain on this appropriation and has emptied the coal bins
in the buildings to an alarming extent.

We hope that the city will be able to obtain the coming
year some badly needed additional arc lights, which the
Board has been unable to obtain for the past five years.

We shall need an increased appropriation in this department
next year. '

HIGHWAYS.

The Board approves of the installing of more permanent
work the coming year along the same lines as were followed the
current year.

We recommend the replacing each year of at least one of the
old canal bridges with modern structure. ;

The establishment of stone crushing plant in the foot hills
west of Northampton street is hereby recoramended. We believe
that the establishing of such plant will prove very advantageous
in improving the roads within the limits of the City. We trust
that an appropriation may be made this year for this purpose, believing that macadam dressing on the suburban roadways is
more economical than gravel.

The bituminous macadam as laid in this city the current
year has proven satisfactory thus far. In its present condition
we believe it to be the best pavement for streets not used for
heavy traftic, at present before the people.

When the financial condition of the City will permit we approve of an expenditure of liberal amount in improving the condition of our country roads.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. —
; SANITARIES.

The establishing of public sanitary in the basement of the
City Hall building has proven an accommodation to the public.

. We are favorable to the extension of this class of work in differ- 
ent sections of the City, and would suggest the placing of a
public sanitary at the corner of Race and Dwight streets the

/ coming summer. ,
SEWERS AND DRAINS.

; The Highlands and Ingleside districts urgently need increased sewer accommodations. Adequate provisions should be
made for installing sewers of sufficient size for the house drainage
and surface sewage in these districts.

oo SIDEWALKS.

There is large number of petitions for sidewalks and
curbing on file in the office, which the Board has been unable to
grant. We believe that the work should be continued with
unabated energy. An appropriation equal to that of the present
year is desired for  .

| We are indebted to the Mayor, members of your Honorable
Board and to the Department Officials of the city for the unfailing courtesy shown us.

, Respectfully submitted, :

-  The Board of Public Works.
M. F. WALSH, Chairman,
, GILBERT POTVIN, Jr,
O. D. ALLYN. sO
\

é
REPORT OF ‘tHE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
EXHIBIT A.
DEPARTMENT ACCOUNTS.
Total Appropriations Expenditures
Departments Balances, Recei pts and Transfers Balances
and Transfers From 

Alleys,  

Bath house, Ward One,  

Bath house, Ward Four,  
City Hall fund,   
City property,  
Fuel and street lights,  . 
Highways,  . 

Highland school,  

High school and site,  

Main street bridge,   ‘

Permanent highways,  
Public works contingent,  
Sewers and drains,  
Sidewalks,  
Street watering,  
Water rent,  
$ 

; |
: t
| Joye pre yronexenyrans le
/ ogOe agOe ay, oe atee ee
|  #oereesisessresess |g
i) ID QO OD  OO GO. SAASALSSS |
& aa res od  CR  li o
:  PS |
| oa Resid Yes) co Fi
 Sn SEO a
  Patere
  RD Sunt Non oO w
Be sg Sn  es 
Sie} rt mr oO 
- jes] |
—————  ---OODOO™m———é—@—Y’?WON.: ae
Can |
  ane |
os be  i
|   oD oD  |
| BA  oO |
 ian
. ga rrit
 ee ie |
ae DMORWNIOD HOD Ba)
J ef (S atts crc Se|
my CD HOD HE oS a) |
Q od SAN EO Ho —S  
jon re
eS S| Ie |
) |
|
| l
a  To)  iz
) Me it APSO —) oD
  Es is Ce) So RN  |
oO fo} CN OD  lo @)
. fg RK  o
Q t) Ob S
* Nn 
mf, Hi SDS DRS Sseonrnmoren I! |
ae BSeeeyee co |
 ir MODmSAPNHOD OM WOorOSS mn)
fr ey NMIOwWMHMHRNY STF BF OrAGNRNHD oO
RN eB on  
. ce, WTKR ot HQ  o
i ar ™
  e) E
an er: |
es wa ermeornrnmt ormonseneos !
 SHESSEHRH SHRKSrSKNHSH :
Oo ps ARM SDBDSOM SWIM erONHNOSHD [| |
Pa [DENRBADRH NSANMAAHASHMS iD |
'S) my Ao  oo} Yes)
  ce
  a$ l\egertrorcoome re awvorgas |x .
  SH GNAAEKOSHESRGSSORA“VMAHADD IS |
ia re |) KEN SA Sx ESHSSETSESEVES  |
| @§ SMOPIOPFARNHASOSSOSHAAGS |S
  mrt  er Nr oO
Qe rst  td
Zs SH
| Bt oe |
|eeaeee
| ai)
| ae, ac rai ff) :
— —
fo)  o) oN ND *
, outs  ae S| re  Ne  |
aS Cie Seme)
| Oo  DO- eat Pal pres ei }
. Hass .N Pt ENS ON ESAOE
| pO OSH SoPeVZSSsNZegGt
  OPMHGSS SSVHPVH SONS |
|  Pe Pak Segnah fo sng
{| De OMS OO ORS WH VEN,
NLHoNNOCNFrLRNROGRNVHR oOo
dG’ godvadasd onaPer sees
| CAERSOSOS So SHS AMO ss |
| OLN aa ga SOR an oe Spun ‘
om  
| Og Fae OS OS ues ASE
| SS RA Re wamc sen rasad
| SSS emp eteSeF sore
| “SMA mmn aay azdsaanes

 
/
é
 
‘| |
| oO OD wt Onn :
a Cc nmn eT SCS  td
‘  oenmn SS SS oS |
| io a) en) ae  t
& oc RM me MW OO  cz |
, —- ar) ;
| LR a
{ |
 va) oy] Yen) |
| eo oof
ca oOo  oD tH |
  eS 
’ ae se 
ea ae a
‘YP ;
  anybynrrewrses D
FE)  So Ft et  a
\  ie ma ot RB @D is
. so oa  RNR 
ry) SF one
Sa ,
fo)  
s iD  Ss a
a fo) os Rol far)
z ass OD RN a
 ke
A oe  
pata  !
. fx) |——— oso |
ov Do ot oS SS @® t
bo  &- SF BS oO |
Se ea)  NR RM aS
pond Ae ad re oa OQ |
ee cooa ty |
en om \
SE Sco   EEE
A :
ia oO co onwMmaAaoe Kr m
. az on Se  BH os
al Ss Sc Sls é
rx) Fr Rw FE OD
a) SK a
 |
pont  $M. |
r  .
on Dm RM FS ek
NM eo oe
. zug Mm  DD Se
| as om tm DOD SF Ht Oo
ey gw ae) mr r) |
a R—| kA &
[»
  
Ea  
|
a rs ree
, E
F |
' Cc)
  jen  .
| ,
fo) \
&  ,
  od) 
| Fs EE ,
' Be NM zF Ss
C Po  ees 
| sca  BS |e
. Es  |
msenm mt w& |
: e

—  |
 DreRAMNBMDHMHDTOSH MDD is
  TQ OMRTASCHRMEADAT ao
 TRADES SOS YM SOCGAS —
  KONMSSGTHOH Hr om &
 .
— ne Se
 be S|
  nm  re)
 ac; |
ca sa :
  |
e |
ee
 Bs SS a
r :
Ss ass Ps
MN Oo ond CO
o  oD of
i, oa Fe fe |
ee
co nh |
  &
 as S
ry S
. ea
sc me |
Ee YY ——
. oO
: El  sg az &
— Mm me ce NH BDH S
 ob me HIS MS RV 
b HR Se
x at AW
Rogie td
— |
  DrAMHNHHOSOrA Ow 
— EIQ DPF MWAOGARNRM IO 
PS MHRNASGSHDOE-SXKdHdos zi
  -&eOnNnemwsrtDr No sd mn
law age NAMHaS No we S
oti] ag| al g
 
pal
jan) i
  .
cy  Ss e
ea Oo
x Soe .
 DD Seek g& A) Pp,
O-m eo !
a CHEnD..s @&  .
 BBqs Pe &.
sa Pas   oa
a BARR ate  ae
M ec Seno esas ,
,  Sees zha Pie oe are)
O  nia RE si ey .
THIS Hen So sg .
  SESS SH EM PL  
OCOo  ae ST Se
  nD
S SR rhses cs :
 AAA  coOomOAe i
mm 

+
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. :
EXHIBIT E.
ALL OTHER EXPENSES PAID FROM CITY PROPERTY.
Name Supplies and Maintenance.
Forestry, 
Horse,  
" Miscellaneous,  
$ 
.

'
e
. g
oO  ff) ek is
 GS 
# ao Ss vA sx i
. eo Fe we of}
 are FS ™
E of} are) ad
m an)
# aN
:  
a a
Es ES &
oO Oo wn nn
@a QQ
Ej  AY SS :
  Yen)
  Sn 
Se  dH a)
,  on oOo ms st
‘ ap Jo) oa)
  KH Si
El
co 
a ar] t- Soe
A  x
|  
Oto ra
 ’
ran
S
ve) re CO fom)
r. .
 sb gs  
, co Dm |
x oO ot ood
 aS, wh 
gO  
— et \
an —
an Ton) re fan)
  oe SS &
 ao adam xs an)
ea) oe DR  ea)
oS  Ye}
t oa)
\ a
R oJ  Som in
Ko) rR FT OO oe)
(  ip ma
Id oH OS af
‘ ry  QR
Ay sy Fe
  we Ee Is ‘
a cC em UO! R
 Ht tt Nex)
a  Ss Goa GS  CR
ags nr se SF om
  
R @& cS Aa va
; si Fe
id  M
s .
e F
o— fs] fy
, ras MN —
) ——  nen) ba
‘ o)  ae a
A ea) foal  
fo)  on  an
}  eo) ;
a WO 
Ss) jon]  
i gC  

 |
|  &ss
®Q SRS  dg eis SESkEnE Bees :
Be Seal om CaS SVSSILE
 Md cat OS Sas TESS RS
ra ss ODES Da  aSceEsoens s
RZSS ERTS RRS RB SBSH |
FSTGS "i ec'
a Sa her a
BS ,
- mii
  |
 Sr fay  SB NY  
a  RQ &
™  me eR GS  a
i ||}  So BA
a oe A
fe) 
— of \
 Ql  &
"  ao  ae es Ze $$ —,————aie]    cuen es la :
N on eo ar OF &S ao SRE  
s eme Ssge  soe |S
 al Ve} ms pal 
: "It
o) FS |
ae Sx re
g c
Sigi  gS RSS CRESS
 LESS ac
  es eoaeae |!
TN 
om Bit Res !
mmis ff} CEs @es .
Po  .. OOS rere) mn
cord lo aa  
eagiict  Ea eg
i  
nw I
mig  !
oiw SB BEES xe |
T  sao tS os mae  
x] SRE BS se os
| Di 
ce RQ |
 xt ee
oS aw ses FRSES es a
Zz weit- Lar ae  
eo) Set  Sie voy
A we SLE  
— m™ amN Cal 
A.  its
. Ad  .
. ewars} gy  we ew
, s... ... ....  poole
a oo. Dowd  |
Zz sos oe Be
. SBS  Hg ol .
a On&  RNR -g  Bao oc,
fa TPL  wo  aS gs wo aa  a
)  ome ga ‘Se aay  
Sip  -Sf saes $e. esi, |
  eo}ood  ft ome go 
“GOGOL BERSSESSESSSE SE  Eo  
a Iisa seo oper SB  Rood Ag he |
a be deaug @Sgssaets SCE Das oe
j HEMI Gebel ia 
D Pct cy arasisaura Neg aaee eEot Snese
Peers rate ete Ss aazé fl g
—eadaere Pescegs BSCONa Zeoso
os eo ye SecveGaseia teil piss  
.
Bags st 
LES nee |

I
  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
EXHIBIT H.
MAINTENANCE STREET LIGHTS.
Are, . 
Gas, .  
Incandescent, ,  
Gasoline, .  
Salary of Lamplighter, .  
Miscellaneous, ,  
Total, . 
Number of electric arc lights,  
Number of electric incandescent lights,  
Number of gas lights, .  
Number of gasoline lights,  
»

L  ry Fe o.,neepep ,
I
t
'
bh
Ly
|
!
t
.
L]
| :
'
|
|
|
|
I
l
l
I

Digitized by Google

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
EXHIBIT K.
CROSSINGS CONSTRUCTED  .
 
|
|
ea
f
wm  
'
i
;
| et   |

ee Rp  eel i
a se.
ani

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
EXHIBIT K.
CROSSINGS CONSTRUCTED  .

Street. Side. Across What Street. Kind.
Chestnut ......|West.......|Essex................ ...|Vitrified brick
Chestnut ......|West......./Hampshire ..............|Vitrified brick
Ely ...........|/Hast......../]Hampden................/ Vitrified brick
Ely .........../South....../Alley between Center and

| EFast.................../Vitrified brick
Hamilton .....!North......./Park ..................../ Vitrified brick
Hampden .....|North......./Elm.....................|/Vitrified brick
Hampshire ..../North......./Maple ...................|Vitrified brick
Hampshire ....|\South......)/Maple .................../Vitrified brick
Maple.........|West.......]Hampshire ..............|/Vitrified brick
Main ........../West......./Appleton........ .......)/ Vitrified brick
South........./North......./Elm...................../Brick
Sargeant ....../South .‘....|Magnolia ................/Brick
Sargeant ......|North......./Sycamore................iBrick
Sargeant....../South....../Sycamore......... ....../Brick
Sycamore .....|West......./Essex..................../Brick
Bridge ........|Hast......../Hamilton................./Vitrified brick
Main ..........|/Kast........jJackson ....... .........|Vitrified brick
Main ........../East........) nd level bridge... ....../Vitrified brick
Ely court......|Kast......../Lyman street school .....|Vitrified brick
Lincoln -.-.../Gouth ....../Nonotuck...............-|Brick
Nonotuck ...../West.......|Lincolm................../Brick
Nonotuck ...../West.......;/Allyn....................'Brick
Allyn.........|North......./Nonotuck ................/Brick
Walnut .......|West......./Essex................. ../Vitrified brick
Hampshire ....\South....../Alley between Oak and
Linden ................'Brick
Nonotuck .....|Fast......../Allyn.... .............../Brick
Hampshire ....|North... .../Locust..... ............. Brick
Main ........../East........|Spring.....  ............/Vitrified brick
Sargeant ....../South......j/Locust’.................../Brick
Sargeant......,North.......j;Alley between Oak and
Linden ............ .../Brick
Sargeant.......|/South......j;Alley between Oak and
Linden ................{Brick
Sargeant.......South....../Alley between Linden and
Locust................. Brick
Sargeant.......;North... ../Alley between Linden and’
Locust... .. ...+-..-. {Brick
Sargeant......./South....../Alley between Locust and
Sycamore..............'Brick
Sargeant.......|North.......|Alley between Locust and
Syeamore...vs   +s Brick

- REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
) '
EXHIBIT L.
. PAVING LAID  .
| Street From To Lepgth Yards Kind Cost
Cabot, north side  stcanal canal Brick 
Dwight Race street Frontstreet Brick  
“Lyman Point east of Center street Brick  
Bowers street
*Lyman Front street High street Granite  
*Blocks taken from Dwight street. ae
EXHIBIT M.
MACADAM ROADWAY CONSTRUCTED  .

. Street From To Length Yards Cost
+Bridge Canal E. Dwight 
Lyman Maple Pine  
*Dwight Elm School  
*Maple Dwight Suffolk Park Canal Appleton  
*Bituminous. charge of  was made for the use of the steam

roller on Dwight street and  on Maple street.
+Completion of work started previous year.
Completion of work started previous year.

/
 
‘\  i. Bs &
 FH
| —
| aS
§ TN  
| ie cea
|  ao@ &
 .
  BEE
F BE &
  Smt cae ie
  le nn OBB BO
A ESRSSS, RES eo a
CEEEBES END aS  
Bere et gee Ed |e
| SSo DEE BES ee
  Pann aE —
SG REEESES 
N SUES ES OM uu oe “ar
  gt  nass Sgn Ae oS
pe: Su auss SS  
PEACE BESS SE ces
 
B meraAaagsmn Hes
.ot eSeS ee
A zs
  a
é 
Ex  ic i
faa) os D
ZS wn Se  g
a ee
z Pecanee
a gs  gE  
a Ara ie TE 
a)
: REEEEESS aS
E Sz PEPYRer BRO  Boe eEgeEee  &
wy  A
: BOUEESEEES Bba @
, Mae es She ie a
ESZEEERSSS BEE  :
SSaaSSSeae Sse  &
ARRRBAAARALE
ci)
hp q
n .
g  E
‘ EA
  Sac Ef g
o Se Ems  Oe roy ow
ry SE  HAastes  ——o
Pe oe OS ReaREEE FERZSS
JO gug afd bee oe
 AA aA ta oe ece-B
SS pe Ss AVC Se geen s—
, BE RSSSAESS SOR ERE aS
p bp SN SS bE heb
giepera ene bs bg  
SaoGAAEREEE Gas  
HAOCAAARMEOA &
Digitized by Google

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
EXHIBIT O.
GUTTERS PAVED  .

Street. Location. Between what Streets.
Bh Both sides Dwight Suffolk
Bh Both sides  Appleton Suffolk
Bh Both sides Essex Cabot |
Center Lyman Ely
Center Both sides Mosher East Dwight
Chestnut Hampshire Sargeant
Cabot North Chestnut Elm

- Elm Lyman Fountain
Franklin North Maple High
Hampden South Elm Walnut
Hampden South Nonotuck Thorpe
Locust West
Lyman Walnut Pine
Maple West Sargeant Ross
Oak Both Sides Dwight Suffolk
Pine Dwight Suffolk
Sargeant South Commercial Race
Sargeant North Chestnut Elm |
South North Elm South
School West Dwight Hampden
Sycamore West Sargeant Franklin
Sargeant South Sycamore Magnolia
Suffolk North Maple High
Walnut Hampden Dwight
Walnut Hampden Lyman

{ .
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
. EXHIBIT P,
BRIDGES REPAIRED, RESURFACED AND BUILT,

 Bridge Kind of Work Cost
Appleton street second level, Replanking roadway, 
Appleton street first level, Replanking roadway,  
Bridges, General repairs City,  
Bridges, General repairs coun try roads, |

- Cabot street second level, Replanking and general,  

Cabot street first level, Replanking and general,  

Dwight street foot, General,  

Dwight street first level, Painting,  

Dwight street second level, Permanent walks, painting,  

Jackson street second level, Construction,  

Lyman street second level, Replanking,  

Lyman street first level, Replanking,  

Main street third level, *Replanking,  

Main street third level, Construction of 

Sargeant street first level, New sidewalks,  

* Plank taken from yard.
. EXHIBIT Q. ;
SCHEDULE OF WORK DONE (NOT SHOWN ELSEWHERE ).
- HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.

Appleton street repairs, . 

Brown avenue repairs, .  
Crosswalk cleaning, .  
Crosswalk repairs, .  

Country roads’ repair, .  

Chapin street, .  

Cherry street, relocation.  
Commercial street, repairs,  

Dwight street, repair asphalt paving,  

Dwight street, repair west of School street,  |
Dwight street, repair macadam,  

Ely street, widening, .  

East street, repair, , .

’
  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Easthampton road, repair, . 
Elm street, repairs, oo,  
Ely street, re surfacing, .  
Forestry, ,  
Gutters, cleaning of, ,  
Gravel streets, cleaning of,  
Gutters, repair of, ,  
High street, relaying paving, Appleton to Cabot streets,  
Hamilton street, repair, .  
John street, repair, —. ,  
Lyman street, repair, ,  
Lyman street, relaying paving,  
Miscellaneous, ,  
Myrtle avenue, hardening, .  
Maple street, repairs on gutters,  
Maple street, repairs, general, ,  
Maple street, repair, tree belts,  
Main street, .  
Northampton street, repairs, —.  
Oak street, re-surfacing Fairmount square,  
Paved streets, cleaning, .  
Rollers, new and repairs, .-  
Race street, repairs, ae  
Summer street, repairs,  
Snow, care of, on country roads,   :
Snow, care of, on city streets,  
Snow, care of, along street railway tracks,  
Sargeant street, repairs, —.  
Street signs, .  
Springtield road, repairs on,  
St. Jerome avenue, repairs,  
South street, .  
Teams, maintenance, city and new,  
Wagons, tools, etc., repairs, toot.  
Wagons, tools, etc., pbew, . .
Telephone account, .  
Westfield road, .  
West street, repairs, .  
Yard watchman, .  
Yard, general work at, ,  
$ 

. REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. :
\
EXHIBIT R.
SEWER DEPARTMENT. ,
Bh street sewer repairs, $ 
Bond street sewer repairs,   
Catch basin cleaning and repairs, Loe  
City Farm sewer extension,  
Cabot street sewer repairs, 
Cottage avenue, .  
Essex street sewer repairs,  
Flushing sewer, ,  
Hitchcock sewer repairs, . :
Miscellaneous, ,  
Northampton street sewer repairs,  
Prospect street sewer repairs,  
Race street sewer repairs,  
Wagons, tools, etc., repairs, Lo. ,
Wagons, tools, etc., new,  
}
$ 
| EXHIBIT  |
SIDEWALKS.
Bh street, repair curbing,  
Cinder walks, repair of, .  
Dwight street, repair of curbing,  
Miscellaneous work, .  
Maple street repair, curbing at Library, :
Race street, repaircurbing, ...  
Snow, removal by plows, .  
Snow, removal from public property walks,  
Sanding walks, oo.  
South street repair walk, .  
Wagons, tools, etc., repair of,  
Wagons, tools, etc., new, .  
Taylor street repair walk,  
|  

Fa |
  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
. i
EXHIBIT T.
“  §TREET WATERING.

Operation electric sprinkler, Coe  
Maintenance wagons, tools,  
Operation carts, ,  
Miscellaneous, . ‘
|  ;
‘

w otece nvoxwor
+H+DSCRGSSSSO
sf SESESSRIZESESESSS
b SAA RA AI eet et etek ra
Se s
fm Ta)  .
Sp mcr csrc  :  er:
eS DOrProsnorwmnrnrnwawon .
  ee
\ se NNINNRNRNQNRNNNNLANQKVNANIAAH
P
@  BSSSESSSSSSSSSsE :
Ssh SESSERSS 
B  BABSSRSESES EASE &
  ese ese esxsse
‘  SONNSSBSSHONBDMBNS
\  Sie, SG LY RDS DOO WIG AAS
dog QD OD OD CV OD CV GI EY et HID OD
ow an
| a
psoy jo SERRSSHSSAIMSSSSE
UIPTAA BANQAPANDBDRANKIAVAWH HH
r
—)So OtHtoON
me BIISSRRRSSSEXSSSA
a te eet et et et et od rt et eet rot
@ —
a
S
) 
t ao! 
a Geant AaAndAdda tz add ga
HX de SESSSSSSSSSSSESSES
m  oh GenonenanenneeoeSeaneSss
lan cr  LL Lt at tt
  \
- |
con me |,
 .
Ss .  ee
aD   ae, .
cic oO
 
ae  iss  gy
bs —@BS@ .-AG 
qf Mm .so
fe) mes  OCOOs™ -g -.
, Som ogor  
| Os Oper Sa Some
$ Sees ssi seiises ca
z: eS aE sa  DBetgenn Aare] SB bp "
. enue ta .- -wg® Oats
Ee, crn SSZarvrsEOaks
arasee BBM AWVS om
Pee OES. .CAD™M s,, .A
OOVPGAG DG SSPLRH SSH
TERE ESE NDINA DF Fo Ww
SRANNRNAAB Eres EAass
rr  PHOONMAAY SEH E
PA ecgeg sensed im
' aoe Stel Serdo Ane
SPYEES CEES WWESS Be
 See aa Hoga So
Om mhe Re Ssezsese
DNOANARASOOHDHAN  fe
a  SUM MSSORSNOSSNIHTeR
as SOrrprnarwnanrssoonsds
DALCNOCTDLGBHBDDDASADDODD
i AOcn Bo oe on De oe oe oeeon

(
  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
EXHIBIT V.
BUILDINGS AND LAND. ‘
be F
Value Square  s
NAME OF BUILDING. of feet of tc hasta :
Building.) Ground. ESRC: er OE Value. m
ee   eS AS
. Appleton Street School,   Brick,  
Back Street School, Wood,  
*Bath house, ward one, Wood,  
*Bath house, ward two, Wood,  
*Bath house. ward four,, Wood,  
*Bath house, ward six, Wood,  
Bridge Street School, Brick,  
City Parmcy  os   Brick, +
Carlton Street School, Brick,  
ayo gt CU Wer  Granite,  
City yard buildings, Wood, 
E. Dwight Street School, Brick,  
Elmwood School, Brick, 
Elmwood Engine House, Brick,  
Elm Street School,  Brick,  
Emerald Engine House. Brick,  
. Hamilton Street School, faa  
rick,
Hig’land Gra’mar School, Granite,  
Limestone ‘
\ Brick, |
High School,.   Granite,  
el Limestone |
Hillside Hospital,   Brick, 
High Street EngineHouse,)  Brick,  
Highland Engine House, Brick, |”  
Ingleside School, Brick,  
Lyman Street School, Brick,  
Mt. Tom Engine House, Brick,  .
Nonotuck Street School, Brick,  
No. Chestnut St. School, Brick,  
Park Street School, Brick,  
Relief Engine House, Brick,  
Sargeant Street School, Brick,  
School Street School, Brick,  
So. Chestnut St. School,  Brick,  
Springdale School(new), Brick,  
Springdale School (old),  Wood,  
Springdale hose house, Wood,  
West Street School, Brick,  
West Holyoke School, Wood,  
. Workshop, Elm Street, Brick,  
Sewer. land) os  
STAVE) Pity. .F. bac  
Sewer land, Highlands,  
|   ne |
* Built on leased land. ;
+ Hospital Wards; Rooms; Dormitories; Sleeping Rooms; Reception Rooms,
Digitized by Google

;
TWENTY-EIGHTH
OF THE
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYORE,
FOR THE YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
Ke LO
Ce WOKE Ly
CIMINE. SSA
HOLYOKE, MASS.
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CoO.
, ,

. ‘
, I
: :
| 
| .
‘ .
 
’  
! !
[
 
:
|
  fa
!  '
|
\
:
|
:
‘
| .
{
| (
| .
.
\
|
|
:
| ‘
‘
  .
]
| '
)
f
i
 

i '
Z REPORT OF THE
OVERSEERS of the POOR.
To the Honorable the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke.
In accordance with the charter and revised ordinance of the |
City, the Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit their twentyeighth annual report, it being for the fiscal year ending November |
OUT-DOOR RELIEF.
 The number of persons aided during the year was  ,
representing families, at an expense of .
This Department also furnished burial for. bodies, at an
expense of .
The total expense for the year, for all classes of partial and
full support, has been as follows:
City out-door poor, Coe  :
City sick at hospitals,   City burials, Jot .
——-—— 
State out-door poor, , 
State sick at hospitals,  
State burials,   ————- .
Cities and towns, out-door poor, 
Cities and towns, sick at hospitals,  
Cities and towns, burials,  
" ———  
Insane, outside of City Farm,  
Overseers of the Poor,  
City Farm,  
: Making atotalof ... 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
| RECEIPTS.

Balance from the year   

Appropriation,  

Receipts from all sources, —.  

; ——— 

Total expense,  
Balance unexpended, . 
Following is detailed statement of expenses outside of the

City Farm.

. SeesESSRES SER] RY
 SRSREEZEESESRBE z
oO  SESRESRRARRA (& |
saoiniysay oso ww oc ws
id  bo no) it al
- FH |
— Ss nm oes :
 OC) On re RS SS an rs B.
ea} pas rT NY Bf &-& ODO He st HM OM DO wb |
 Jan)  oO Ye) ro} Te) ag ov atAY
an saiddng fr) |
cy wo to ,
io) em) jan} aad SIS  |S SSRSSERASRZSER #B :
 bon oy  
pa vuptio FF SkRSSRSRSSE Bs
 jo puvog Se
fy ff
| fase ESR EE,
team [syIdsoW  h& iz  DQ 
rao AWO |
aa 
pnee
 PRezePRrtRReBers Daal
nn wo fF Bm RR Rw f,
r  |
. om eouaplaolg SsaaS BkSBRkE KH TFT EZEG SB So
 MQ RR AO RR Rk Rw BB |
be goasnoH of
& ,
n |
 ans)  {oo
os zeeSme aS BeRgTP SES |! B
od sTeand ekee  B
pus syoBH  i. A
ey i
e) wogemy Sk SFEREBSERE FE  S
JO  Sm oc mM RAR MD  
ca “IQAQ pus Gk Ct R&'&R SHB BS x
a euoydaaL kd
F; on ff  SS TS
e oO  oS
cy -eyiodsaeiL, ea  FRAG GS Fa pas )
t
So |: )s  ,
oD NR To) tt 
- oe
mR euvsa] ie fg reg 
, MQ a
 ane ‘
Z, aS S gss
A sumo] “gp  |
ae pus saiyto fp 
a) f
as SSE SR |B
aarmao Pa es  vw Feae gs
em pas sv yus #&  Pt
es ar SSS SOS ES
oO resus SR Bee
- ‘sft oO i
eupoIpelt &bS  F€BXTSESSG  .
Zi  
a aa ai ay ay a
 SER BRRSS RSS ZS,
  ye nrienre  RP DOD os
ry pues yseo BS -))  oD oO ata Es Ne QR OR nl Z
 a
— eS xy,
a |SRuxpRxgRseezs eesFa! SE
sa jong Sass nn en 

NM ant
  Oo nm wunmwoeoeodtost, st
a peek esg se a
. Te) oD io  Dm Ne}  Ne) ler} fe) vo)
 XK
er syi SRSRBHREEBSRE EH EF}
home Sc S
a 
| |
 HINOW SE nga sz i
 ss Ss  Eh Ob
| &@ FB |
 Axi ket AHR RF AHO!’ |

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
SICK POOR.
' The expense at the hospitals for the care and board of the
sick poor was .
The item of medicine for patients at home and attended by
the City Physician was .
INSANE.
There were nine patients committed to the Northampton
Insane Hospital and nine deaths and discharges. |
There were algo nine patients transferred to the City Farm
and three to the Massachusetts Hospital for Epileptics.
Number of patients, December ...  
Number admitted during the year,  
Number in other institutions,  
—-  
Number discharged, including deaths, moe,  
Number remaining, November  
The cost of maintaining the insane for the year was. 
The amount refunded for the care of the insane was  
Making net expense of . 
a CHILDREN.
This Department has provided for orphans at an expense
of divided as follows:
Sisters’ institutions, oo, . 
: Boarded in private families,  
Makingatotalof  .. 
CITY FARM. |
In our reports of the last few years we have called attention
to the necessity of hall or chapel in connection with the City
Farm institution. This, as yet, has not been provided, and we

| |
REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
would again urge the necessity of filling this long-felt want. We
trust during the coming year our institution will be provided
. with suitable hall or chapel. ’

The number of inmates cared for during the year was as follows:

Number, December ..  

Number admitted during the year,  
—-—  
Number discharged and died, Loot,  
/ Number remaining! November,  

HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT.

The total number of patients receiving hospital treatment
during the year was as follows: |
Males, ,  
Females, .  

— |

Of the above, were sent to the hospital direct; the remainder were inmates of the institution.

The duration of hospital treatment of the above aggregated
  weeks, or about weeks and days average for each
patient. .

Following is detailed statement of expenses at the City
Farm:

|



|

ook ae tS SSF FRESE RY]
R te]  fons)  oz) fos  Rr

. EE on eA oon oe en oe oeoe lor) |
asd 

: a
N jo
  

fa)
 amp ss Be Doro or ot ge BO
-MBQ PUB POO nn ie Ss
ale ,
oS  
s ‘gasl H{ UO  duB  |
-pue}} peopel Dot ot Ss to: io rio:  
e rm
oa as lopH ‘UVAB AA oe
ea) as
 ie  )
— euoydeetsie S&S Sk SSRBBSBBS |
can -UOTIBIG ‘SddIA ss pe Fe HBO Re g
-  [BAOISS JOld |
, jaws re
oO |
  egssReeseRgezges| |
fe, {jsuuedey Sar eo Ss coe See eS see B
-eoyg ‘seyddngs Zr  gS |
  
oc Tow  )
I  lt té '" oO  sjusjoejuisia $$ B&B +: mm  
e kh ‘ry &
ee
 nN
 sSssesaRng  
.fo Do HO SC |!
 suues| SREERRER ZEB RS SF
— pa 
oe) &
———— ts Ce
 -[eqyidsoH k++ EF &
: bo EK&
  AYSIU AL  fA S&S SH  
us  @uldIpe .
Zz Pp fOIpayl 
RS |
S  -raquin'] S®§ Seaesesaeraszsseses Re
sso Oe Soo SX HOA S|
A pus cvapusH  RP BR  x
 *
+,  So fa)
i ‘Bayquunid CS  SFB &
 pus Zanued rn ao nr |
t] —
r. #
§  
eo ge Ve) —-  oD
‘QINTOIN YY pus oF RR me Ss oF
. [or] NS loo)  inal fom] os on Cann) —
Spoop esnoH oO  Rm DB 
DZ we
A ee
: le] je o) io a) '
 ‘spoon qd  ec Cu iB  Ss  |
 re t- aQ loo) ina]  fom) lel  AQ tq oS
  Zurqqojo ‘soos SF Ro FF BRE ae Z
  es eae ‘Od BQOL FRESRRE REE STS FS
Ca  pea ‘seed ses klk  BF SBBSES g
cK. pawpeag ‘sear, |
TN pe a
A TELELT LEE
own Ff Ht Oot oO SF OD Ht OM on

-\ wal

 uupmwn FESR ARR SER SE |
' oD

 w

 RSS  SR BRB RS] |
: RX co ttwt we me @w tt
Z| sup Sees RBBB BE |B |
| Pr
a

bd ona pa *
. wor lg egies beg a

 s. ®

Ary, kA  BER HA HOGA

; /
REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
RECAPITULATION. |
Out-door poor, City, 
Insane outside of City Farm,. Oe
Overseers of the Poor,  
State, |  
Cities and Towns,  
City Farm,  
——-—— 
Cr.
By amount charged to State, 
By amount charged to Cities and Towns,  
By visits of City Physician, State,  
By visits of City Physician, cities and towns,  
By cash from State,  
By cash from cities and towns,  
By reimbursement from insane, —
By cash received from farm produce,  
By cash received from board of individuals,  
By hack fees to hospitals, —..  
By cash received from sale of land,  
—-——  
Net expense to the City for the year   :
The expense based upon the recent census is eighty cents
per capita.
Respectfully submitted,
A. F. GINGRAS,
: RICHARD GILDAY,
, JAMES DURNIN.
Overseers of the Poor.
J. T. CUNNINGHAM,
City Almoner.
December  th,  .

, {

) .
t

|

| ,

I

|

. I

, .

)  

|

|

a

\ I

, ‘

} |

i

| :

'

|

e '

|

i

,
, OF THE
| OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE,
For the Fiscal Year Ending November .
TRIAE RS oe
  aoe  
Cine,
Ori Doy
/ HOLYOKE, MASS, |
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING Co,
 

. ”
‘
  :
’
’
‘ t
l
\ ‘
.
 
‘
AY
e
.
.
.
.

.
,
:
*
a
  

I
; {
’
 
e .

 

?
CITY AUDITOR.
f
. SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES .
From DrecemsBer To NovemBer .
Total Apps., Transfers Balance
ACCOUNTS. Receipts from Expenditures. Unexand Transfers.| Depts. pended.
All@YS ....   eevee ees |............ ............
Assessors’ Department........ |...    
Board of Health .............. |........  
City Ensineering............-- |. .   
City HaN Fund................ |...  eens  
City Property.........--ss -pay ay  
Contingent ........-..ecc   
Corporation Tax ..............    
Elmwood, Oakdale and Spring- :
dale Sewer Assessments..... [occ    sacs
Fire Department.............. |......cc   
Fuel and Street Lights........  
Highways and Bridges........ [............  
Interest.......   .  .....    
License Fund.........   .  ......    
Military Aid........cc  |......... .....cce 
National Bank Tax............ |... ..cs  |...   ee
ParkS.......  ssecsevecs |.....cc .  
PAUPEL......    ercc cv   |...     
POHCO....   este ec  |........  
Public Library............... |............ .........!
Public Works Contingent..... FOLD ..c  
Salaries.........   ce cere    ........ .Sewers and Drains............. §, 
SchOOIB ..... ees |.....c  
Sidewalks......... ecs    
Soldiers’ Relief................ |. ...  ........  .
Street Watering.............    
State  see epe ce tees
Sinking Fund............s - .  |........   ]   s
Whiting Street Fund.......... |...     
Overlayings..........ss   
- Municipal Lighting............ |........  
Lyman Mills.............eesee. |........ oe. ......... 
Highland School.............. ........ . ...... 
Schoo! Bonds,  ............ |... ce    ... cc   
Ward One Bath House........ |........-.-- ............
Ward Four Bath House....... |............ .......... .
High School and Site..........   vo.   
Water Rent........   |........ .. 
Highways, Permanent Work.. |........  ... ... 
Main Street Bridge............ |......... .. .......... 
State Tax....  |......... -- [P..... 
County Tax............c |............ ....  
Non-Resident Bank Tax.......   Joc    ] cecc e
$     :
 
$   
* Transferred to Sinking Fund C»mmission for investment.

— REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNT EXPENDITURES ITEMIZED.
| William H. Brooks, counsel fees, Lyman Mills case, A. F. Knight, expert services, “c “c “c  
Arthur Lord, commissioner, fees, “c  A. L. Green, counsel fees, Municipal Lighting case,  
Nathan Matthews, Jr., counsel fees, Municipal .
Lighting case,  
Kilpatrick Post, G. A. R., appropriations, —.  
, C. J. Bresnahan, claim, damages,  
C. T. Callahan, Atty., claim, damages, Losty vs City,  
C. T. Callahan, Atty., claim, damages, Fitzgibbon vs
City,  
S. Davis Son, claim, damages,  
R. O. Dwight, Atty., claim, costs, J. C. Keough et als,  
David Mahaffy, claim, damages, ..  TT. D. O’Brien, Atty., claim, damages, O’Connor vs
City, ,  
T. D. O’Brien, Atty., claim, damages, Buckley vs
— City, ml  
- Frank Cahill, burial agent, burial of veterans,  
W. F. Salisbury,  
P. H. Sheehan, legal services,  
R. F. Stapleton, “e  
N. P. Avery, litigation expenses,  
Elizabeth M. Reardon, auditor’s assistant, salary,  
Arthur B. Chapin, traveling expenses, Lo  
D. W. Kenney,  Alberto reward (on hand in treasurer’s office), —.  
Pierre Bonvouloir, traveling expenses, postage,
express, etc.,  
ITenry A. Chase, postmaster, postage,  
T. F. McCabe, postage, re  
W. T. Walsh, express and postage,  
Frederick Kilian, postage,  
IT. C. Cady Printing Co., printing,  
M.J. Doyle Printing Co.“ Coo,  
!

/ '
REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Griffith, Axtell Cady, printing, Lo  |
Henry M. Meek Publishing Co., printing,  
Transcript Publishing Co., printing,  
Transcript Publishing Co., advertising,  Free Press, advertising,  
German American Printing Co., advertising,  
La Presse, advertising, oe  
Telegram Publishing Co., advertising, |
Boston Daily Advertiser, advertising,  
John J. Ahern, care of polling place (school house),  
John Moriarty, ct  wo James France, 
G. P. B. C. E. Alderman, rent, polling place,  
G. H. Barlow, rent, polling place,  
Building Trades Council, rent, polling place,  
W. T. Dean, treasurer, “c oe  
Foresters Building Assn.,  
Patrick Green, sc eo,  
Holyoke Machine Co., se  
E. H. Howland,  
T. W. Mann,  
T. Raymond, ce  
St. Jerome T. A. B. Society, cc ,
 St. John Baptist Assn.,  
F. A. Winkler, .
Joseph A. O’Donnell,  
Joseph A. O’Donnell, hack hire, re  
John Ahern,  
A. L, Codaire Co., 
John Dillon, 
P. J. Griffin, we  
P. J. Griffin, damage to horse and team,  
Casper Ranger, setting up polling booths, etc, —. |
Casper Ranger, witness fees,  
Mark Wood, cou  
George H. Allyn,   

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
Joseph Allen, witness fees, 
Eli I. Brockett,  oo, to,  
M. HE. Cummings, co to, 
Dr. L. H. Clark, “. Lo  
J.G. Deardon,  oo,  
Ellsworth Kirkpatrick, witness fees,  
E. A. Ellsworth, witness fees,  
W. E. McClintock, co  
Edward T. McHugh, eo,  
S. T. Miller, eo,  
J. H. O’Connell,  eo, Dee.  
Dr. G. C. Roberts, ww  
Richards and Goddard, eo,  
Dr. Ralph H. Seelye,  eo  
Morgan, Crossman Co., rubber stamps,  
George H. Hill, rubber stamps, ..  
M. J. Laporte, witness fees,  
M. J. Laporte, cartage, freight, team hire,  
Ware’s Typewriter Agency, ribbon,  
F.S. Webster Co., ribbon,  
E. M. Dickinson, pens, 
Treworgy Ink Manufacturing Co., pens,  
R. R. Nickerson, stationery, oot,  
Fitzgerald Co., . 
‘ Connor Bros.,  
Eureka Ruling Binding, blank books,  
Hobbs Warren Co., ss wo,  
A. E. Martell Co., oo,  
Charles  S. Binner Co., we, &. 
Holyoke Job Book Binding, book binding,  
National Blank Book Co., 
Springfield Printing and Binding Co., book binding,  
M. A. Allen Son, lamps and oil,  
Edward F. Kirschbaum, telephone index,  
Adams, Cushing Foster, index, 
American Writing Paper Co., deed of land,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. ‘
Baker- Vawter Co., binders, Lo 
E. C. Clark Co., premium on surety bond,  
Joseph D. Goddu, premium on surety bond, 
Ely Lumber Co., box,  
Frederick S. Fuller, expert auditor’s fees, 
J.C. Lutz, lithographing check and bond books,  
Investor Publishing Co., subscription, |
Holyoke Water Power Co., gas, polling places, —
Mrs. Jane Hamilton, nursing, 
Holyoke Ice Co., Ice,  
Highland Manufacturing Co., pads, ek  
Ella G. Fogarty, typewriting,  
Miss M. A. Lee,  
Dr. John J. Moynahan, inspecting meat,  
Maurice Moynahan, repairing ballot boxes,  
K. A. McMillan, document bands,  
New England Tel. Tel. Co., tolls, —.  
New England Towel Supply, laundry,  
V. J. O'Donnell, deputy sheriff’s fees, )
Walter D. Phelps, Weekly Guide,  
Parsons Paper Co., paper, ;
Price Lee Co., directories,   
G. E. Russell Co., eyelets, fasteners, etc.,  
Sullivan Carmody, use of stoves, etc., at caucuses,  
; Jobn Tilley Co., use of tables at caucuses,  
James Thompson, soap,  
John H. Woods, photos,  
John F. Sheehan, recording births, marriages and
deaths,  
John IF. Sheehan, pens, express, etc.  
Carl Straus, pencil sharpener,  
EXPENDITURES ON ACCOUNT OF SMALL POX.
A. D. Durocher, provisions, 
, Minnie Goss,  Lo.  
Louis Cloutier,  :

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. Se
Frank Demers, provisions, 
Joseph H. Beauchamp, provisions,  
H. L. Mousett Co,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, to.  
' J. B. Archambeault, oc  
R. W. Sanderson,  tok,  
Roy Desnoyers,   
P. Bonvouloir Co.,  
Cornelius Hurley,  
D. M. Foley,  
George Gamache,  oo,  
Perreault Co.,  
Pierre Caisse, to  
N. Mercure,   
William O’Connell, sc  
A. N. Chaput, cc Sy  
/ J. A. Campagna,  
Max Abramson, yo  
J. J. Hurley,  
M. J. Moriarty,  
E. M. Curran,  ]
Belanger Labreque,  
Edmond Ally,   
EK. L. Lyman, se  
Leon Lepage, ae 
Alcide Perrault,   
S. J. Hobbs, team hire,  
M. J. Laporte,   
H. H. Carter, CO,  
Bibeau, Massee Co., fuel,  
William B. Whiting Co.,  
Frank Menard,  
P. J. Griffin, we  
City Coal Co., “c  
Livermore Martin, furniture,  
Collins Murray,  

|
. REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
P. H. Smith, milk, . 
L. Person, to,  
Louis Blackmer,   ‘oN
A. Paul,  Ss  
Cornelius Haley,  
Henry Lorenz,  Achille Turgeon,  
Henry Proulx, shoes,  
Anthony McLean, Estate, shoes,  
D. E, Sullivan, —— |
Gilligan Shoe Co., oe 
Charles U. Roy,  
L. J. Rigali, fruit,  
Telegram Publishing Co., advertising,  
Transcript Publishing Co., sc  
Transcript Publishing Co., printing, 
M. J. Doyle Printing Co., se  
A. W. Geary Son, repairing wagon,  Sullivan Carmody, kitchen utensils,  
G. J. Prew, clothing,  A. E. Steiger Co., clothing, 
Naumkeag Clothing Co.,“  
M. A. Allen Son., crockery,  
G. E. Russell Co., side light, —.  
. Hobbs Warren Co., blanks and postage,  
Misses Curran, sewing flags, Lo,  
Mrs. Nathan Friedrich, eggs, |
Webster Whitney, flour,  
Mrs. Cray, clothing and board, ..  
A. F. Glesman, vaccination points, .
Curran Bros., medicine, Td
W. F. Grady Co., medicine, re  
Cleveland’s Pharmacy,  W. C. Cowan, eo,  
A. S. Menard, wo, 
C. E. Ball Drug Co.,  

|
  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. ,
A. E. Sunter, medicine, 
Hamilton Pharmacy, medicine,  
Riverside Pharmacy,  }
) A. R. Vincent, Go, |
John EHeinritz Son,   
John B. Beauvais, oo; |
Elmwood Pharmacy,  !
Dr. E. J. Mahoney, professional services, .. |
Dr. G. H. Smith, wo,  
Dr. F. Woods, oo, |
| Dr. A. B. Wetherell, “c co, tk :
: Dr. St. Georges, wo, ,
Dr. J. J. McCabe, A, |
Dr. M. J. McIntee, sc oo, |
Dr. E. J. Tierney, Bo, :
| Dr. P. E. Hurley,|
 Dr. G. H. Clark, wo, |

Drs. Eaton Robert, oo,  

Dr. J. E. Brindamour, se co,  

Dr. F. F. Celce, oo;  

Dr. J. P. Shine,  oo, *

Dr. Donoghue, co,  

Dr. O. J. Comtois, wo,  

Frank L. Avery, labor, tk  

Pay Rolls, 

| BIRTHS REPORTED.
Dr. Carl A. Allan, . 
Dr. J. L. Bliss,  Dr. Joseph Brindamour,  

Dr. Frank F. Celce,  

Dr. Jean Celce,  

Dr. Henry Chaput,  

Dr. George H. Clark,  

Dr. Louis Clark,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Dr.F.J: Cloutier,  ... 
Dr. Gardner Cox, . 
Dr. C. H. Curran, os  
Dr. O. J. Comtois, i.  
Dr. E. M. Davis, '  
Dr. Josephine de la Neuville, |
Dr. Joseph H. Dixon,  
Dr. D. F. Donoghue,  
Dr. J. A. Donner,  
Dr. Richard Eaton,  
Dr. Thomas F. Godfrey, 
Dr. Walter Hamilton,  
Dr. J. C. Hubbard,  
Dr. Alice E. Hunt,  
Dr. George E. Hunt,  
Dr. P. J. Hurley,  Dr. George Kinne,  
Dr. Joseph Laurion,  )
Dr. Jas. O. Lacaillade, .
Dr. E. J. Mahoney,  
Dr. S.A. Mahoney,  
Dr. J. A. Marin,  
Dr. J. J. McCabe,  
Dr. J. J. O'Connor,  
, Dr. Francis Patoel,  
Dr. C. M. Pomerat, oo,  
Dr. George C. Robert,  
) Dr. Albert Robert,  
Dr. H. R. Sackett,  
Dr. W. M. St. Georges,  
Dr. J. P. Shine, Loo —
Dr. George H. Smith,  
Dr. E. L. Taylor, was)
Dr. Edward H. Tierney,  
Dr. C..H. Turner,  
Dr. A. B. Witherell, —.  
Dr. F. A. Woods, |

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
Dr. A. Franze, .. 
Emilie Kuhn,   "
Mrs. R. Wruck,  
Mrs. William Kelly,  ). "B 
Albert C. Cobb (Southampton), we)
W. Beauchamp,  
O. C. Gelimais,  
Mrs. R. Burke, 
Mary C. Martin, . 
DEATHS REPORTED.
John Dillon, ,  
| T. F. Ryan, ;  
James P. Hobart,  
C.F. Alger, ;  
Wells Lathrop,  
A. F. Gingras,  
Joseph Dumont,  
A. L. Coderre,  
.J.Shea, ,  
Malloy O’Donnell,  
V. E. Mitchell (Easthampton), 
John J. Gleason (Springfield),  
I. Gordan, . OU
J. H. Clune (Springfield), —,  
. Sampson Sweeney (Springfield), at)
James J. Hafey (Chicopee),  
-  D.F. Barry (Chicopee),  
T. F. Kelly (Easthampton), 
Patrick Brosnahan  High street),  
Expenditures,  ow ele, 
Transfer to Board of Health, )
Transfer to Ward Bath House, ,

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Transfer to Ward Bath House, 
Parks,   |
Balance,  
Total expenditures, transfers and balance, 
SALARY ACCOUNT ITEMIZED.
Arthur B. Chapin, Mayor, 
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk,  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer,  
D. W. Kenney, City Auditor, ,;  
Thomas F. McCabe, Tax Collector,  
William T. "Walsh, City Messenger,  
Dr. Geo. C. Robert, City Physician,  
‘Dr. Joseph C. Marin, City Physician,  
Nathan P. Avery, City Solicitor,  
Hector Mondor, Sealer Weights and
Measures,  
A. J. Rand, Caretaker City Hall Clock,  
James KX. Morrill, Inspector Milk, ete.,  
John F. Sheehan, Registrar of voters,  
Timothy J. O’Connor, Registrar of .
voters,  
. Thomas Stansfield, Registrar of voters,  
. Charles U. Roy, Registrar of voters,  
George L. Goodyear, Inspector of provisions, etc.,  
Casper Ranger, Chairman, License Com- :
mission,  
Dr. C. H. Curran, License Commissioner,  
Dwight H. Ives, License Commissioner,  
Michael J. Bowler, License Commis sloner, .
John C. Doran, Clerk of Committees,  
Joseph St. Martin, Chairman, Board of |
Assessors, ..  

\
  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
Joseph J. Kelley, Assessor, 
Dwight O. Judd, Assessor,  
James T. Cunningham, City Almoner,  
James Durnin, Overseer of poor,  
A. F. Gingras, Overseer of poor,  
Richard Gilday, Overseer and clerk,  
Dr. A. B. Wetherell, Member Board of
Health,  
Dr. Frank A. Woods, Member Board of
Health,  
Jeremiah J. Linehan, Member Board of :
Health,  
Elizabeth G. Shea, Clerk Board of
Health,  
Michael F. Walsh, Member Board of
Public Works, ,
Gilbert Potvin, Jr.. Member Board of ,;
Public Works, '
Oren D. Allyn, Member Board of Public Works,  
Henry Winkler, Supt. of Streets,  
Jeremiah Scannell, City Hall Janitor, ;
Frederick Kilian, Clerk Board of License Commission,  
Fred H. Gilpatrick, Inspector of build- .
ings ... }
Precinct Ofticers,  
James L. Tighe, City Engineer,  
Expenditures, .  |
Transfers,   
Total expenditures and transfers, 
ee —a——-,

; REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. .
)
TAXES.
) TAXES— .
. Thomas F. McCabe, in Account with City of Holyoke.
  .
Dec.  .—Balance due,  Nov.  .—Abatements, 
Balance,  
$ '
TAXES— ..
. oun \
Thomas F. McCabe, in Account with City of Holyoke.
  .
Dec.  .—Balance due,  Nov.  .—By Cashto date,  |
Interest, Interest Collected,  
Abatements,  
To Balance,  
,  
’ (
TAXES— .
Thomas F. McCabe, in account with City of Holyoke.
 .
Dec.  .—Balance due,  Nov.  —Cash todate, 
Interest, Interest collected,  
Abatements,  
To Balance, ,
.  
TAXES— .
 Thomas F. McCabe, in Account. with City of Holyoke. |
| .
Dec.  .—Balancedue,  Nov.  ..-By Cashtodate, 
. Dec.  .—Additional Assess- Interest Collected,  
ment, Abatements,  
--— To Balance,  
$  .
’ Interest,  
$  

\ ,
| REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. .
TAXES— .
Thomas F. McCabe, in Account with City of Holyoke. :
  .
Nov.  .—Total Taxes Assessed,  Nov.  .—By Cash to date, 
Interest. Abatements,  
Interest Collected,  
To Balance, .:  
$  
SUMMARY UNCOLLECTED TAXES. :
For  .  |
For    /
For   
For   
For    .
Total Taxes due. 
, ‘
SIDEWALK AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS.
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer. Sidewalk Assessment,  .
  .
Dec.  .—Balance Due, Sept.  .—By Cash to Date, 
Abatements,  
:  To Balance,  
$  
. sv
Pierre Bonvouioir, City Treasurer. Sidewalk Assessment,  .
  .
Dec.  .—Balance Due,  Nov.  .—By Cash to Date, 
Abatements,  
To Balance,  
.  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer. Sewer Assessment,  .
  ;
May  .—Amount Assessed,  Nov.  .—By Cash to Date. 
Abatements,  
To Balance,  
$  

, ,
‘
)
REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. |
|
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer. Sidewalk Assessment,  |
  |
Nov.  .—Amount Assessed,  Nov.  .—By Cash to Date,  :
Abatements, |
 To Balance, !
$ |
SUMMARY.  |
Outstanding Sidewalk Assessments, |
os oe  |
‘ “s ‘“s  |
‘ Sewer “* 
Total Assessments Outstanding, 
——— is |
 
CITY INDEBTEDNESS. |
CITY DEBT NOT EXEMPTED.
Bonds, years per cent, Municipal, Due July 
“* “s ‘* April  
“  ‘s “s ‘* July  
e*  June  
*  ‘* ‘* Dec.  
*  ‘s ** Oct.  
“  “s (Fire Dept), ‘* May  ‘
“ Bate (Litigaticn), ‘* July  
“  BASS S*  School ($  annually), May  
“  ‘* Municipal ($ annually), ‘' June  
Total Unexempted Debt,  
EXEMPTED DEBT.**
Bonds, years per cent H. and W. R. R. Stock, Due Oct. 
“ Hand  H. Falls Bridge, ‘* Sept.  
* ‘* Sewer, ‘* May  
*  HH. and W. R. R. Stock, July  
‘* Sewer, ‘* Oct.  
*  H. and W. Bridge, ‘+ June 
“* +“ **  §ehool, June  
“* “*  July  
“  SF fF ‘** Mech.  
“* “* Water, Jan.  
“ “*  July  
Total Exempted Debt, 
Grand Total Debt,  
** Exempted by special Acts of the Legislature.

. )
i
  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
SINKING FUNDS.
,
Sinking Fund, Water Bonds, Jan. 
“  “s “s “s July  
“ ‘S City Debt, .
“s wo Exempted,  
Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Stock, par value,  
——-——  
Total Net Debt,  
{
ASSETS.
Water Works, assessed valuation,  
All other City Buildings,  
Land and Parks, assessed valuation, TUT 
Excess of assets beyond liabilities,  
LOANS.
| TEMPORARY LOANS.
  .
Nov.  .—Loans Paid,  Dec.  .—To Balance, .
Balance due, Oct.  .—Loans to date,  
$  
MUNICIPAL BONDS.
TEN YEARS.
  .

June  .—Transferred as follows: June  .—Loan. 
Highways, permanent work, .C  ** Premium,  
Municipal Lighting, ** Interest,  
Lyman Mills,  
Main Street Bridge,  
High School and Site,  
Interest,  

Main Street Bridge, .
$  

\  
at REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. |
CASH ACCOUNT.
  .
Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Disbursements to date, .
Nov.  .—Receipts to date, Nov.  .—By Balance,  
$  
/ ANNUAL NET DEBT STATEMENT. .
The following table shows the net debt at the close of each
fiscal year, beginning with  .
| Year. Net Debt. Increase. Decrease.
 —
 -—
  —

   —
  —
  —
  —
  ,  —-  

Total increase in debt during the past years, 
Average annualincrease,  
| During the year  was borrowed for permanent improvements, and there was  of the bonded indebtedness
(school bonds) paid off.
| Respectfully submitted, ,
D. W. KENNEY,
| City Auditor.

\ .
/
‘ ‘
Digitized by Google

 
ASSESSORS’ REPORT.
ASSESSORS’ OFFICE,
| Hotyokr, Mass., Dec. .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen.
GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the City Ordinance, the
Board of Assessors have the honor of submitting for your consideration the following report for the year ending December .
Appropriation, , 
Balance unexpended from  
| 
EXPENDITURES.
Permanent assistant assessor, whole year, 
Postage stamps,  
Team hire,  
Printing street lists, etc., |
Field work assistance, May and June,  
Books, stationery, etc.,  
Clerk of Assessors,  
Advertising,  
Traveling expenses, Board of Assessors,  
Miscellaneous,  
Library bureau,  
——— 
Balance unexpended,  
(
$ 

  REPORT OF THE ASSESSORS.
TAX WARRANTS.

A state warrant as fixed by Chapter  Acts of

 to wit: One million five hundred thousand dollars, $ 
A county warrant for the proportion of the city of :

Holyoke of county tax of As per
Chapter  Acts of   

A city warrant for the taxes of the City of Holyoke

for city purposes, as fixed by Section  Chapter
 of the revised laws,  
An overlay on above amounts, .. »-  
Aggregate of warrants, 

POLLS.

The polls recorded for assessment before August ,
included in the estimate which determined the tax rate for the
current year were,  

Under the operation of the law providing for the supplementary assessment of omitted male persons, determined by the
registrars of voters to be liable for assessment, under the Chapter
 Section of the revised laws, were added to the list, one
hundred and eighty-one polls, making the total of polls
assessed  .

VALUATION.

The valuation of the city as of May determined by
the assessors August first of that year, when the rate of taxation
was fixed,  as follows:

- Value of land, , 
Value of buildings,  
Total value of real estate,  ,

REPORT OF THE ASSESSORS. .
PERSONAL PROPERTY. |
Valuation of Personal Property other than Bank
Stocks, separately assessed by the Assessors, Valuation of Shares in National Banks, located /
in Holyoke and taxable locally,  
, Taxes were levied, all additions included: .
Real Estate, .. 
Personal Property,  
Banks,   .
—————-———  
The valuation for of personal property is increased in
addition to the amount given in the foregoing table by the value
assessed by the Commonwealth upon shares of Massachusetts corporations, including also proportionate part of the Street Railway
tax, measured as per sec.  Chap.  of the Revised Lawes, all of |
which is the property of residents of the City of Holyoke—
$ .
The valuation is further increased for bank stocks assessed at
the several rates and places where banks are located, as the taxes
are paid to Holyoke on this class of property held by its citizens
in Massachusetts banks located outsille the City of Holyoke-$ .
As the revenue from these two sources is always estimated
before the amount to be raised by taxation is determined,
the effect of valuation on this property in reducing the rate of
taxation is nearly the same as though its amount was included in
the Assessors’ valuation assessed by them.
The increase in teal Estate Valuation over  
is , 
The increase in Valuation in Personal Property,
including Bank Stocks over  is.  
Making total increase in Valuation over  

  REPORT OF THE ASSESSORS.
EXEMPTED PROPERTY.
Property exempt from taxation under section  chapter  ,
of the revised Laws, is as follows :
Benevolent and charitable, . 
Houses of religious worship,  
Literary and educational,  
Temperance Societies,  
| Aggregate of exempted property, 
The valuation in stocks in Corporations and Banks, together
with the valuation of exempted property, increases the total
valuation of the City of Holyoke for to 
The rate of taxation was made  per thousand of the
valuation of real and personal property, subject to taxation under
chapter of the revised Laws, decrease of cents per thousand over  .
There was raised by direct taxation for  more
than for  for which warrants were received. )
| VALUATION OF THE CITY.

‘ Real Estate, , 
Personal Estate,  
Banks, ,  

| 

STATISTICS.

Property Polls, Number of  
Single Polls, oc  
Supplementary Polls, ]
Property Owners, “c  
Horses, se cc  
Cows,  oc  
Neat Cattle, so  

|
!
REPORT OF THE ASSESSORS. !
|
Swine, Number of !
Fowls, ts 
Dwellings, "
Acres,  
! PROPORTION OF TAX RATE.
State,  per  polls deducted
County, to,  per  polls deducted |
City, per  
Total rate, 
The Assessors on November of the current year assessed }
’ the Holyoke Street Railway Company, an excise tax of 
in accordance with Section  Chapter  of the revised Laws,
and executed and delivered warrant to Thomas F. McCabe to
collect the same in accordance with the above Chapter, rate of
  levy being  per mile for miles or per cent on
total income. ,
Respectfully submitted, |
Board of Assessors of the City of Holyoke,
JOSEPH ST. MARTIN, Chairman.

e eo
“' '
!
 
:  :
. eal
ieeeeeeeeee  ee       
 a
-
  oa o
| an 
D  Chad 
mm  l
    |
|
— 
aj  !COw:C‘LERRR’/R’— ee
Hl] see
. ALSRDHaM+HtOon   ss  far
oe JS  BSSRASGERSGSARALERSZE RS SE SRGRSRASSESRREGSES
aio SSRPRBOLALERE  CSCSSAZRSESRBSHAZPERSSARENRES
ae Hobs “SEM HAAOOHASDOMGNYTHGGHGe BSCS “SHB-NGH ODE FAA!
' aqs Rost TAI OS *e te me eho) mx ow ma &
 q™ i
‘|
sy  ROM ,
 a
o$ I
;S SPRANNA ODOM mm me  py |
| eae mE BREBSSRRSSRORAERARSRRBESPSR ECE SRS SZBSmMM SSUES
a as TSAI AWH MGA OMROGNNATRAASAADNVARBHGRBAORGOAS |
: oom "NOM FRLVROANDQALO GS Me BAKO TN INTE aH TI OX Ae
Cc *
fy ome
b— oom
r. Au  i
ey ee
- SS
poly tet Dm
C i
  Gir-TPrOMONNSOMNOo  er nr: os
  SRECRZSSSSEAR SP SSESRCSSE LSA SARS SESS RELATE
of.ESR TMS SRE TAT AS ONS MSGS
, TE MDONTMEMOSAOCLM OAPAMA NSrOHRG SCH sesame rena—x
“a Sens ia Sgr aeaKs  re  ail wots  
jaw oom ‘
OSear
 As |
Sa ay Yo
Si Z
o .
Pama aaonmas eed -S Enel ae  Fy
Ss) Ars Sr RSSSUEISRT SSE RESESSPELLSSSE SES SR SLEIE SZ
St tia Weih Sa wAS Sore anvros  WS ZSFABTZVPLZSBBRSRERDRESER
pp &ses Ni Lone es EMRE SAMAR LALOMRO AKAN STR SS RAS
DID ABV DIN SW MW IINGINAw AGE TES SF xP od Ts a]
- Tees Saar Qn me OO SES OS  are os
a 
ry ae  
co |S —— |!
: ReStoOOn se oMen Aeoyour: oF SS  aa he SC RSRZSSSRS SS ERS RE PSS RER SEARO ASRS LAAT NR |
D om FORM AHS AH TASS Sarat isnwsaerrmoMr Hee HS One Sak
H  CLLIRPRRRISSHAERESRSRVEERRSCZSNESSSSSIIBESS
C  ie PALMER OCHM HEM APVASEKHRHSAHOCHNASOFOCRHS HCL SRR
E SSregrreriexwtagrva rer vresvsesrs sad iiosenscrvlsr
 qm Ar TTBS HSE SARS SR SS LAKH SERS SRS RR ESSER ZEE |
RS INR NRNRNM  TD TI Piss as SSS
fm feNe
rf|
we ———
aa as
Seszeseqeoeosoeoesosz sscoossesessoeoeszseose |
a LiFgeZ PRSRSRRSSRLSSRSSISRHSSSTARSRSSRARSRSTSSSRS |i
of. DIS CORNIOAHPORMAPMINM SSE IH DeOTHENEECOOY Iwo
nh ,
WF uk, motce vemste emnesmememmve  |
vr.
a. QwMqswonowmonman aot an pro: 
Soil Jai PRSERSSSEROSFSLERVSSZULSARSFETSRSSEZRSSLRABS
oe |. BREE RLERT SSAC SNAG SORT ES SRR BISAS RES ERRNEREH
 ge Fr TORN MOD OD OD OD HE MIG ID SOOSOMEDKODDAGKSCORR Kee
— eS ete et et et \
re     LL TD
— ASPSERNweDs os sonni-+ and Son   ea lon  
—  BHSASEGP SEP SARHABSESRSARSSLRERSRSERBSSSRSESSS
a GRARANKMENSHSARASS ERS TEREREARSERZRBZESRREREER
‘  SoS ho AS eh ne oe neee OF UO OG SE ot pia ete
  RRCSKZSSSRSSSZLI ORS SSEERERSTHREESR SSSR SSGES
a  Nw Sarwar enge Sqyoesnea Sawyer eretr ta atgneearsvat
| RRANSGseMcIsSecaiacGiacsaseAsSSCHGVB sesso gy srrcas
: Pr re ett et reOP OR OR NCR AIA MH) OD ot OD
ee
 
: NMG II MW SSDOS SENN ONeRMs ows cite
 eb DEMOS SH PR RENRGSSRSESESERRERE RES SSABSSERERS iI
of ae KSRARSSRESEAECE LSS SE SE ARASSSRASTERSRESRASHKE "
Nelnplor Sac Bak Sart Nickerie oie stoi tear! Saswem src gaye rere oS sens
r ad Beem sereyAZSSZazEg See eSRSsZeSrSZAPRCSCERSRRER SS
oT |! nOOS ANS
‘oe oe MAMMA ANQNNNNANNNMKTMD HTP Ms oH oOGSSKeEeKCESOS |
  ee
yf |
es tw te WM SiN Sw OD  rmsSoec
|  QEHoOhSBESSRSSESERRPRESLRESSSEXUSRESRESSRERERE
  QoRNs Si  HESARASERIAHRA
eo SNARE OVE RO BRIANA Ug gnBLAAGIT AEA GEM DHWDEOM |
; See TR kee SOA aket aE St te Se a
oo. FEELS SLATERKLESERBSESRRAUSSSSMISRRRSRERL TAS
! Mo HMTNISNwAKOPNOPFLALDSAosIinowrnnHAransnsHnaAcrensn |
fl Pw coe fae Caenee OR ne   Aene
& MAN ANNVI GS MISS SSSN oN LOOMING TSSHWASSo M  GaS |B
| ray FO tt et tt et ot ot OR OE AD OE GI  
oe
| || med
; nae  || *
| SRBLLSLSSECRRTLEL LEST RES PRE PESSRSLESSZELES
o LLCLELELLZLEZEOKLLLLCLOLL ELL LOLELL ELLE LL DOODELCEELEZzA
a) See cme oe Bh coe Boe oe eB oe oe oe oe Boe oe oe oe oe oeoe Be Be oe oeeeee oe eo oe oe oe on on oe
|

‘
REPORT OF THE :
POLICE.
OFFICE CITY MARSHAL.
Hotyoks, Mass., December :
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of
the City of Holyoke. |
: GENTLEMEN :—I have the honor to submit herewith my
official report for the fiscal year commencing December 
and ending November  The past year has been remark- )
ably free from crimes of serious nature, and in most cases the
offenders were promptly arrested and dealt with according to
law. The tables presented in this report give in detail the work |
done by the Department for the year just closed and careful
perusal of them will show that the duties which are delegated to
the officers have been faithfully performed.
ORGANIZATION.
The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal,
Captain, Lieutenant, Matron, and forty-five Patrolmen, two of
whom are doing special duty.

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  |
. City Marshal,
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT.

Ass’t. Marshal, Captain,

Patrick HERBERT. Timotuy Hatey. ,
Lieutenant, Matron,
Patrick E. SuLLIvaN. Mrs. Kate Moyninan.
Special Duty, ,
Dennis Mack. Tuomas E. Buieu.
DAY AND NIGHT PATROLMEN.
Michael Shine, Patrick J. Reardon, ,
Richard Peters, John Leary,
Dennis Mack, John W. Vaugh,
Thomas F. Riley, John A. Vachon,
John A. Davis, Thomas E. Bligh,
Henry J. Campbell, George P. Buckley,
William E. Blackmer, William P. Cummings,
Michael J. Lynch, James T. Donoghue,
Frank M. Priest, Rock H. Lalonde,
Cornelius J. Louney, Maurice M. O’Connor,
George L. Dickinson, Thomas Bresnahan,
Patrick F. Ryan, Charles P. Kehl,
Frank J. Gallagher, Maurice H. Shine, 
William M. Quirk, Matthew McClellan,
Francis M. Hastings, Henry M. Fisher,
John A. Powers, Danie] C. McCarthy,
John A. Geran, Frank R. Metcalf,
Cornelius Curran, Richard E. Lowcock,
Peter A. Cullen, William Carey, .
James B. Griftin, Michael Driscoll,
John J. Moriarty, Peter J. Manning,
Jeremiah J. Lennehan, Patrick J. Kennedy,
Walter J. Murray.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICK.  
STATISTICS OF ARRESTS. Oe
Total number of arrests,   :
Males, ;  
Female, 
ARRESTS WERE FOR THE FOLLOWING OFFENCES. .
Abuse of female child, .
Adultery, Lo,  
Assault, .  
Assault with dangerous weapon,  
Assault on an officer,  
: Attempt to commit larceny, '

Attempt to break and enter,  
Breach of the peace,  
Breaking and entering,  
Bastardy, , :
Contempt of court,  
Creating disturbance on street cars,  
Drunkenness, .  
Disturbing religious meeting,  

- Disturbing the peace,  
Fornication, ,  
Interfering with an officer,  

Indecent exposure of person,  

' Keeping disorderly house,  
Larceny, .  
Malicious mischief,  
Non-support, oo,  
Neglect to send children to school,  
Neglected child, ,  
Peddling without license,  
Receiving stolen goods,  
Ringing false fire alarm,  

 Trespass, oe  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
| Truancy, toe -: 
Stubbornness,  
Sureties of the peace,  
. Violation city ordinance, 
Violation rules of Board'of Health,  
Violation liquor law, Lo  
, Violation milk law,  
Violation game law,  
Violation vinegar law,  ,
Violation butter law, oo,  
Violation, .  
Violation oleomargarine law,  
Vagrancy, , |
Walking on railroad track,  
“DISPOSITION OF CASES FOR THE YEAR  .

- Appealed, ,  
Bound over to the Superior Court,  
Committed to House of Correction, default of sureties,  
Committed to House of Correction, oy  
Committed to House of Correction, non-payment of fines,  
Committed Massachusetts Reformatory, D
Committed Lyman School for Boys,  
Committed Hampden County Truant School,  
Committed to Woman’s Reformatory Prison,  
Committed to Industrial School for Girls,  

| Committed State Board of Charity,  
Discharged, , 
Fined and paid, 
. Probated and discharged,  
Placed on file, .  

  |

-  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
: NUMBER OF ARRESTS EACH MONTH.
December,  ,  
January,  .  
February, Lo,  
March, Be  ,
April, ;  
May, ;  
June, co, too. .
July, sé Je  
August, eo, oe |
- September, ; |
October, ,  
November, , )
. \
 
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED.
America, 
Austria, wee  
Canada, ae  
Denmark, .  
England, oe  
France, .  .
Germany, .. Cea |
(sre, ,  
Hungary, ;  
Ireland, to,  
Italy, , D
Nova Scotia, ,  
Poland, , |
Russia, toe  
Scotland, ,  
Sweden, . ,
Turkey, ,  
W ales, ,  
. |

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY THE POLICE.
Number of children found and restored to parents,  
Number of lodgers accommodated,  
Number of meals furnished prisoners,  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured,  
Number of dead bodies found,  
Number of fire alarms given, oO,  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms,  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported,  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted,  
Number of stray teams taken up,  
Number of street lamps reported not lighted,  
Number of persons arrested for other cities,  
Number of search warrants for liquor served,  
Number of bicycles reported stolen,  
Number of* bicycles found and returned to owners, 
. Number of bicycles reported stolen and recovered,  
Number of safe doors found open, D
Number of dogs shot,  
Number of defective sidewalks reported,  
Number of defective catch-basins reported,  
Number of gallons of spirituous and malt liquors seized,  
Number. of insane persons cared for,  
Number of notices served,  
Number of teams reported lost, all recovered, ..  
Value of property reported stolen, 
Value of property recovered,  
Amount of money reported stolen,  
Amount of money recovered,  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. 
POLICE SIGNAL SYSTEM.
' The Police Signal System which has now. been in operation for the past three years has demonstrated its usefulness and also its
advantages over the old system, and by it the officers have been
enabled to keep in close touch with the men at all times receiving
| reports of officers from different sections every hour, both day
and night, throughout the year. The system has been kept in
‘ good working order and at very reasonable cost to the department. The following shows the extent of the system used during
| the year: ,
Duty calls from Patrolmen,  
Telephone calls, .  
Wagon calls, ,  
Miles run, oo.  
REPORT OF POLICE MATRON. |
: Number of females in charge,  
, Number of females arrested,  
oo OFFENCES. .
Assault,  )
Assault on officer,  
, Adultery, . |
Breach of the peace,  ,
Drunkenness, ,  
, Disturbing the peace,  
Fornication, to,  
Keeping disorderly house, Lo,  
Larceny, ,  .
Neglected children, too Peddling without license,  
Trespass, oo.  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
Stubbornness, .  
Vagrancy, .  
Lodgers, .  
.  Insane, wo. so  
|  
| DISPOSITION OF CASES. ,
| Bound over to Superior Court,  
Appealed to Superior Court, 
Committed to House of Correction,  
Committed to House of Correction for non-payment fines, 
Committed to Woman’s Reformatory Prison,  
Committed to Industrial School,  
Committed to State Board of Charity,  
Discharged, ,  
Fined and paid, .  -Probated anddischarged, |. ..  Placed on file, .  
Lodgers, .. ,  
] Insane, .  
.  
I regret having to report so many cases of drunkenness
. among women, especially when the offenders are young. Many
of the cases this year are under twenty-five years, and two were
under sixteen years of age. Seven neglected children were
placed in charge of the Saint Vincent De Paul Society, and
 three girls have gone to the House of Good Shepherd, Springfield.
As the weather is unusually severe have many applications
for women’s clothing, shoes, rubbers, etc. shall be thankful for
donations of such articles.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
I again thank the Marshal, his assistants, and the members
of the police force for courtesy and ready assistance extended to
me in my work.
Respectfully, |
| MRS. KATE MOYNIHAN,
Police Matron.
FINANCIAL REPORT.
Balance December . 
Appropriation,  
Fines from Police Court,  
Fines paid after committment,   |
EXPENDITURES.
Pay roll, . :
Miscellaneous expenses,  
Balance on hand,  
$ 
, In compliance with provision of the Charter, respectfully
recommend an appropriation for the ensuing year of .
This recommendation is based on the present roster of the force.
ITEMS.
Appropriation,  
Estimated receipts,  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. 
Pay roll, regular force, Loa 
Other expenses,  
$ 
. CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.
During the year the following changes have taken place in
the department. On February  two additional Patrolmen were
added to the force, namely, Peter J. Manning and Patrick J.
Kennedy, and confirmed September  May  Officer
James F. Greaney resigned, and Walter E. Murray was appointed.
He was confirmed November .
| CONCLUSION.
I desire to express my appreciation of the ever courteous ,
treatment accorded me by his Honor, the Mayor, and the Judge
| and Clerk of the Police Court, for the ready assistance rendered
me at all times in the performance of my duties.
Respectfully submitted,
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
City Marshal.

: \
| REPORT OF |
Hotyoke, Mass., December 
To the Honorable, the Mayor of the City of Holyoke:
The report of the Law Department for the year ending ,
December  is as follows, viz: At the beginning of the
current year there were the following cases pending: :
J. Russell Co. vs. City of Holyoke. .
 George W. Richards vs. City of Holyoke.
Thomas W. Mann vs. City of Holyoke.
. M. E. Cummings vs. City of Holyoke. :
Frank Shoals vs. City of Holyoke.
Mary O’Connor vs. City of Holyoke.
C. C. Abbey vs. City of Holyoke. —
Lyman Mills vs. City of Holyoke. :
Holyoke Water Power Co. vs. City of Holyoke.
Springfield Bridge Case.
During the year these actions were brought:
William Slattery vs. City of [lolyoke.
Ellen Delisle vs. City of Holyoke.
Michael Craven vs. City of Holyoke.
Louis J. Rigali vs. City of Holyoke. |
] Mary G. FitzGibbon vs. City of Holyoke.

| REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.

Disposition was made of litigation as follows:

M. E. Cummings vs. City of Holyoke. |

This was an action brought April for an alleged
breach of the contract for constructing the new High School
building. The damages claimed amounted to After
the case was entered in Court it was referred to L. E. Hitchcock
of Chicopee as auditor. hearing in the case was'set for about
the middle of May of the current year, but before the hearing
began the matter was settled.

The circumstances of the settlement were these:

The Ely Lumber Company held an assignment from Mr.

. Cummings of the total amount which should be due him on a

- final settlement to the amount of Mr. Cummings assigned

his entire claim to the Ely Lumber Company, and, on the written

advice of James H. Newton, William B. Reid and M. F. Walsh,

who composed the Board of Public Works in the year when the

greater part of the difficulty arose, the case was adjusted by the
payment to the Ely Lumber Company of the sum of .

William Slattery vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort brought by writ dated January
 th,  for injuries alleged to have been sustained by reason
of defective telephone pole on Nonotuck street. The case was
tried in the Police Court of Holyoke and judgment was found for
the defendant. |

Frank H. Shoals vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action which resulted from the taking by the
City of the waters of the Manhan river for the Southampton
reservoir. The claim was for damages to mill privilege at
Easthampton. The case was settled by the payment of 
and taxable costs.

, REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  
Mary O’Connor vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by defective man-hole cover on East Dwight
street. The plaintiff claimed permanent and serious injury.
The case was tried before jury at the February sitting of the
Superior Court, and verdict was rendered in favor ‘of the plaintiff for .

Mary G. Fitzgibbons vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort brought for injuries alleged to
have been received on February by stumbling over a
carriage stone in front of the Hotel Hamilton. The case was
settled for one-half of which amount was paid by the
American Writing Paper Co. Thestone was forthwith removed. |

/ Louis J. Rigali vs. City of Holyoke. |

This was an action of tort brought by writ dated March  for injuries to the property of the plaintiff on West Hampden street, by reason of an alleged defective sewer. The ad
damnum of the writ was The case was adjusted as it

- was about to be tried at the November sitting of the Superior
Court by compromise settlement of  and costs.
Springfield Bridge Hearing. —

This was proding to determine the apportionment of i
cost arising from the building of new bridge across the Connecticut river between Springfield and West Springfield.

Many hearings were held, the final session taking place on May
  and  At the conclusion of the hearings the cost was ap- '
portioned as follows, viz: |

County of Hampden, per cent
City of Springfield, oe per cent
Town of West Springfield, per cent
Town of Agawam, per cent

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
Town of Westfield, per cent
City of Holyoke, percent
 Town of Southwick, per cent
\ The law authorizing the building the bridge was later repealed so the apportionment became of no consequence except
possibly as precedent. OO
) Holyoke Water Power Co. vs. City of Holyoke.

The most important work of the year in the legal department was the completion and settlement of what is known as the
Municipal Lighting case. This was proding brought under
Chapter  Acts of  as amended by later enactments, entitled “An Act to enable cities and towns to manufacture and

: distribute gas and electricity.” The original petition was filed
/ March On May Everett C. Bumpus, James E.
Cotter and Edmund K. Turner were appointed commissioners.
| From that time the case proded, dragging its weary length
from year to year until on March after one hundred and
eight hearings, the argument for the petitioner was ended and the

case was practically passed over to the Commissioners.
 The final award of the Commissioners was signed November
  waiver of objections to the award was filed November The interlocutory decree confirming the award
was made November by Justice Loring and on the same
day waiver of appeal and exception to the decree was filed by
all parties to the case. This completed the case except the actual
transfer of the property. By the terms of the award the city is
entitled to have possession of the property involved, on the payment of .

The fees of the Commissioners amounted to onehalf of which expense was taxed to each party to the action.
The case for the city was principally conducted by Nathan
Matthews Jr. of Boston and Addison L. Green of Holyoke, and
great credit is due to these gentlemen for the ability, industry
and faithfulness displayed by them in the conduct of the litigation.

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  

The cases now pending are:

J. Russell Co. vs. City of Holyoke.
George W. Richards vs. City of Holyoke.
T. W. Mann vs. City of Holyoke.

, C. C. Abbey vs. City of Holyoke. ,
Lyman Mills vs. City of Holyoke. |
Ellen Delisle vs. City of Holyoke.
Michael Craven vs. City of Holyoke.

Of the above, the only new cases are those of Ellen Delisle |
and Michael Craven. ‘

Ellen Delisle vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort brought by writ dated March  th,
 for personal injuries alleged to have been caused by defective sidewalk on Hamilton street. The ad damnam of the writ
ie .

Michael Craven vs. City of Hoiyoke.

This is an action brought to recover taxes on certain machinery paid under protest and claimed to have been illegally
assessed. The amount involved is .

The usual hearings before the Committee on Claims have
been attended. 

Several matters before the Legislature in the early part of
the year also required the attention of the Law department.

It will no doubt be good news to the taxpayers to learn that
the City is more nearly out of litigation than it has been for many
years. .

The Law department has been treated with unfailing courtesy
by all the departments of the City. Of great assistance, also, have

been the efforts of Holyoke’s faithful and able representatives at
the Legislature. ,
Respectfully submitted, :
N. P. AVERY, |
, City Solicitor.

| .
| REPORT OF THE
, Hotyoxe, Mass., December .
‘ Io the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke.
GENTLEMEN :—As provided by ordinance, present herein
a report of my collections beginning December  and ending November .
Tomas F. McCasz, Zax Collector.
IN ACCOUNT WITH CITY OF HOLYOKE. —
TAXES FOR  .
Dr.
To Cash, taxes collected, . 
To Cash, excise tax collected,  
To Cash, interest on taxes,  
| To Abatements, ..  
By Balance, taxes uncollected,  
$ 
. Cr. ,
By Taxes Assessed, , 
By Taxes Assessed (additional), :
By Excise Tax,  
) By Interest on Taxes,oo  
$ 

REPORT OF TAX COLLECTOR. ;
Nore: Cash deposited with City Treasurer, taxes, 
Cash deposited with City Treasurer, excise tax,  
Cash deposited with City Treasurer, interest, 
Cash on hand,  
$  —
TAXES FOR  :
Dr. :

To Cash, taxes collected and deposited, ,

To Cash, interest on taxes, deposited,  

To Abatements,.  

By Balance taxes uncollected,  
$ 

Cr,

By Balance Outstanding December 

By Additional Assessment,  

By Interest on taxes,  
$ 

Nore: (On hand December deposited. |
. TAXES FOR  .
Dr.

 To.Cash, Taxes Collected and Deposited, 

To Interest on Taxes Deposited,  

- To Abatements, oo.  

By Balance Taxes Uncollected,  
| 

  REPORT OF TAX COLLECTOR. ,
Cr. :
By Balance Taxes Outstanding, December 
| By Interest on Taxes,  
, 
. SUMMARY.
Taxes assessed for   Uncollected, 
Taxes assessed for  Uncollected,  
Taxes assessed for  Uncollected,  
Taxes assessed for  Uncollected,  
Taxes assessed for  Uncollected,  
$  
Notes: Uncollected Taxes December :
For  oo. 
“  ,  
“  Oo,  
“  ,  
$ 
Uncollected Taxes December as above,  .
Decrease in outstanding taxes for past year, 
Note: The City Treasurer holds security for the uncollected
of and  also for  of  .
Respectfully,
THOS. F. McCABE,
Tax Collector.

| REPORT OF TAX ‘COLLECTOR.  
I hereby certify that the amount of deposit, taxes and interest in the report of Thomas F. McCabe, Tax Collector, to close of
business November is correct. |
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,
} City Treasurer. .
/ hereby certify that in accordance with the ordinance, |
have audited the accounts of Thomas F. McCabe, Tax Collector,
to close of business November and found them correct.
D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.
| ‘Hortyoxsr, Mass., December .
I hereby certify that have examined the accounts of Thos
F. McCabe, Collector of Taxes for the City of Holyoke, covering
the tax warrants of and  and find that all collections have been promptly paid over to the City Treasurer,
and that the amount of unpaid taxes appearing upon the books
equals the amount due on the several warrants for those years.
I find that the proper amount of interest has been paid on
the warrants of  and  which are nearly settled.
. FREDERICK  FULLER, Public Accountant.

REPORT OF THE !
Inspector of MilK, Vinegar
and Petroleum. |
, \
OFFICE oF INSPECTOR, !
City Hai, Hotyoxe, Mass.,  ;
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. !
I have the honor to submit herewith the following report as |
Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum for the City of Holyoke for the year ending November  th,  .
MILK.
Total number of licenses granted,  
Number granted to peddlers, 
Number granted to stores and stands,  
Number granted for sales of Oleomargarine,.  
I have paid into the City Treasurer as license fees
received, . 
I have paid into the City Treasurer money received
for distilled water, etc, 
Number of quarts of sweet milk sold in the city daily is ..  
Number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily is  
Number of quarts of cream sold daily is.  
Making the total number of quarts of milk sold this past
year and of cream  which at the retail value of
milk and cream as sold in this city, amounts to .

WNSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR AND PETROLEUM.  
Number of milk samples tested,  
Number of butter samples tested,  
Number of vinegar samples tested, |
Number of kerosene oil samples tested,  .
Number of prosecutions,  
Number of licenses revoked,  
Number of warnings sent,  

The prosecutions were, one for selling milk in store after
license had been revoked by order of the Board of Health, fine
($ .) One for selling vinegar of not standard quality, fine
| .) One for selling milk of not good standard quality, fine
($ .) One for selling milk of not good standard lost by
failure in sending the party the result of the analysis. All the
parties that were prosecuted were sent warnings which they .
failed to obey. :
Two licenses were revoked by order of the Board of Health
for selling milk from dirty cans and carriages.
I have sent twenty-five warnings to parties found selling
milk of not standard quality and one for selling vinegar of not
standard quality. }
Of the samples of milk tested only twenty-five were of
such low standard as to deserve warning, which speaks very
well for the quality of milk sold in this city.
VINEGAR.
Of the samples tested have found but one that was
not standard quality and as the party continued to sell the same
after warning, was prosecuted and fined.
OLEOMARGARINE.
The new law in relation to selling oleomargarine uncolored
resulted in twelve parties taking out license for the sale of same.
The State Inspectors have been very active here, and there is
very little if any of it sold here unlawfully.

  INSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR AND PETROLEUM.

The State Agent of the Dairy Bureau prosecuted nine parties for selling “Renovated Butter” not marked as the law requires. These cases were all settled by the parties paying the
costs of court and having their cases tiled away.

: PETROLEUM.

‘I have tested samples from one hundred tank cars of kerosene oil and three wagon loads that were sent in here from
Springfield. All this oil has been above the Massachusetts
standard.

Respectfully submitted,
| JAMES K. MORRILL,
Inspector of Milk and Vinegar.
  |

.  
REPORT OF THE |
Inspector of Provisions.
To the Honorable the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

The following is the report of the Inspector of Provisions, ete.
Number of cattle inspected, —..  
Number of cow barns inspected,  
Number of stables inspected,  
Diseased meat condemned (pounds),  
Number of cow barns ordered cleaned,  
Number of barns reported to Board of Lealth as

unsanitary,  
Number of stables reported to Board of Health as ,

unsanitary, —  
Number of meat markets reported to Board of Health

as unsanitary, .  

In conclusion would state that the total number of changes SS
ordered was twenty-six, all of which bave been complied with.
This work was done on order from the Board of Health.

I wish to return thanks to the Health Officer, Mr. J. J.
Linehan, for his assistance to me at all times, also to Dr. J. J.
Moynahan, Marshal Wright and the Police Department.

| Respectfully,
GEORGE L. GOODYEAR,
Inspector of Provisions, Ete.

REPORT OF
Hotyoxsr, Mass., November .
To His Honor the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke: :

The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund for the payment
of Municipal Bonds respectfully submit the following report:
Amount of Fund reported November  )

RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR. |
| Appropriated by the Board
of Aldermen Received
November 
From the Board of Water
Commissioners, an amount
equal to tax of per :
$  on valuation of
Water Works ($ ),  
Interest on investments, 
Less amount credited to premium account,  
——————  
———.  
Amount of Fund, this date, 

SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.  

INVESTED AS FOLLOWS. ,

Real estate loans, . 

Municipal bonds,  

, Bank stocks,  

Cash, deposited in banks, at interest,  

Premium account,  
——-—— 

Respecifully submitted,
, C. FAYETTE SMITH,
, LEMUEL SEARS,
} J. S. McELWAIN,
‘Commissioners of the Sinking Fund.

  ORDINANCES.
: CITY OF HOLYOKE.
. In the Kear One Thousand Nine Hundred and Two. |
AN ORDINANCE.
In Relation to Hawkers and Peddlers.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows. :

Section  No person shall sell or expose for sale as a

hawker or peddler in this city any fruits, vegetables, or provisions
unless he is duly licensed therefor by the Secretary of the Commonwealth, or by the Board of Aldermen, and shall exhibit

his license when requested to do so by any police officer.

Section  The Board of Aldermen may grant licenses to
such hawkers or peddlers upon such conditions as they may deem
expedient, and may revoke the same at their discretion, and a
record of the licenses as granted shall be kept by the City Marshal.

Section  Ail licenses granted shall expire on the first
day of May next after the date thereof, unless sooner revoked,
and no license shall be transferable. For every license so granted
there shall be paid to the City Clerk the sum of One Dollar for
the use of the city. |

Section  Every person licensed to peddle as aforesaid,
shall be assigned number by the City Marshal, and shall have
his name and such number painted in letters and figures not less
than two inches high on each side of his wagon or vehicle, and
when his license is demanded of him by any police officer he shall
forthwith exhibit it, and if he neglects or refuses so to do he shall
be subject to the same penalty as if he had no license. :

ORDINANCES.  
Secrion  Whoever shall offend against or fail to comply
) with any of the provisions of this ordinance, shall for every
offense, forfeit and pay penalty of not more than Twenty
Dollars.
SEecTION  All the provisions of this ordinance shall be incorporated into every license which shall be granted under it.
Section  All ordinances and parts of ordinances incon- |
: sistent with the above are hereby repealed.
Approved November .

 ORDINANCES.
/
| CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Two.
AN ORDINANCE

To amend an ordinance entitled“ An Ordinance to amend Section of Chapter of the Revised Ordinances of the City
of Holyoke.”

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows:

SecTion  The first paragraph of an ordinance to amend
Section of Chapter of the Revised Ordinances of the City of
Holyoke shall not apply to School street.

Approved, November 

ORDINANCES.  
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
| In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Two.
AN ORDINANCE }

In relation to automobiles, electric cars, or other vehicles.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows.

Section  No automobile, electric car or other vehicle
propelled by steam, electricity, or other motive power, shall be
run within the limits of the city at rate of speed greater than
ten miles an hour.

SEcTION  Every person having charge of any automobile,
electric car, or other vehicle in any street, square, or public place
in the City of Holyoke, shall obey the directions of any police
officer respecting the place of standing and the route to be taken (

- when going to or leaving such place. |

SecTIon  The owner, or the person having charge of any
automobile, electric car, or other vehicle used in violation of any
of the provisions of this ordinance, shall forfeit and pay for each
offense fine not exding twenty dollars.

‘Approved, November .

  ORDINANCES. .
| CITY OF HOLYORE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Two.
AN ORDINANCE
In Felation to Junk Dealers and Dealers in Second-Hand
Articles. |
/

‘Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows.

Section  No person shall be dealer in or keeper of a
shop for the purchase, sale or barter of junk, old metals, or secondhand articles in this city, unless he is duly licensed therefor by
the Board of Aldermen and shall exhibit his license when requested to do so.

SEcTION  Every person owning or having the care or
driving of cart, wagon, dray, truck, hand cart, sleigh, sled, hand
sled or other vehicle which shall be used in the city for or in the
collection of junk, old metals, rags, papers, bottles or second-hand
articles, shall be licensed by the Board of Aldermen and each of
said vehicles shall have painted upon each side of the same the
name of the licensee and the number of his license in plain legible letters and figures of not less than three inches in length and
so that the same may be distinctly seen and read.

SEcTION  Any person who shall collect junk, old metals,
rags, papers, bottles or second-hand articles without wagon,
cart, dray, truck, hand-cart, sleigh, sled, hand-sled or other vehicle, shall be licensed by the Board of Aldermen and shall wear
a badge on some conspicuous part of his clothing with the number of his license thereon in plain legible figures of not less than
one inch in length. ,

ORDINANCES.  

Section  Every person dealing in said articles or keeping
such shop, shall keep book in which he shall record in plain
English language at the time of every purchase by him of either
the articles mentioned in the preceding section description of
the articles purchased, the name, age, and residence of the person
from whom, and the day and hour when he so purehased it. No
entry made in such book shall be erased, obliterated or defaced
and the form of such book shall be prepared by the City Marshal.
Said book shall at all times be open to the inspection of Mayor
and Aldermen or any person by them authorized to make such
examination.

Section  Any police officer may, enter the shop of any
such dealer in junk or second-hand articles and examine the
books and property in said shop, and all articles purchased or
held by said dealer in junk or second-hand articles shall be exhibited to any police ofticer whenever demand shall be made for
such exhibition. Every.such licensed dealer shall make out and
deliver to the City Marshal every day before the hour of twelve
o'clock, noon, legible list containing an accurate description of
all articles purchased during the preceding twenty-four hours, and
the time when such articles were purchased. .

SecTion  No keeper of such shop shall directly, or indirectly, either purchase or receive by way of barter or exchange,
any of the articles aforesaid of any minor or apprentice, knowing
or having reason to believe him to be such; and no article purchased by such shopkeeper shall be sold by him until period of
at least one week from its purchase or receipt by him shall have
elapsed, without entering on his book the name and address of
the purchaser, with other facts sufficient to enable him to keep
trace thereof. ;

SEcTION  Every keeper of such shop shall put, in some
suitable and conspicuous place on his shop, sign having
his name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon in large letters.

SecTIoN  Every such shop, and all articles of merchandise therein, may be examined at any time by the Mayor and Al ORDINANCES.
dermen, or by any person by them authorized to make such
‘examination, or by any police officer.

SecTIon  No keeper of such shop shall have the same
open for transaction of business, except during the time between the rising of the sun and nine o’clock of the afternoon of
each week day. ,

SEcrion  All licenses granted under this chapter shall
designate the place where the person licensed may carry on bis
business, and he shall not engage in or carry on his business
under his license in any other place than the one designated.

SecTION  Any person offending against any of the provisions of this chapter shall forfeit sum not exding twenty
dollars for each offence.

SEecTIon  Persons who buy or sell no second-hand articles except books or furniture shall be exempt from the provisions and conditions of Section  .

Section  No application for license under this ordinance shall be received after June  in each year.

Section  All the provisions of this ordinance shall be
incorporated into every license which shall be granted under it.

SeEcTION  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent with the above are hereby repealed.

Section  For every license granted under this ordinance
there shall be paid to the City Clerk the sum of two dollars for
the use of the city.

‘Section  Every license granted hereunder shall continue
in force until the first day of May following, unless sooner
revoked.

SEcTIon  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.

Approved, November ,

|

City of HolyoKe
JURY LIST —
FOR  

) c
. |
| |
| |
L  |
l
/ /

, r
JURY LIST FOR  .
| A
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Ahearn, John Maple street Hackman
Anderson, Thomas J. Miller avenue Merchant
Ash, Cornelius H. Lyman street Blacksmith .
Archambault, Eli Canal street Clerk
Adams, Arthur Center street Hadley Co.
Almond, Robert Canal street Hadley Co.
Adams, James Adams street Hampden Glazed
Ainley, Walker Canal street Springfield Blanket Co.
Avard, Louis P.  East street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Ashley, Edmund A. Northampton street Agent
Alderman, Henry H. Pearl street Architect
Allyn, George H. River Terrace Real Estate Agent Allan, John R. Clark street Insurance Clerk
Arthur, B, Frank Pine street Real Estate Agent
, Atherton, Herbert W. Bh street Millinery |
Ainley, Herbert E. Newton street Deane Steam Pump Co.
Aitken, John Maple street Blacksmith
Arsino, Alexander Iligh street Lyman Mills
| B
Bigelow, John W. Walnut street Laborer
Bowler, John Prospect street Conn. Valley Lumber Co,
Bowler, Patrick Lyman street Mill Operative
Brassil, Michael, Lyman street Massasoit Paper Co.
Brennan, William Chestnut street Papermaker
Brosnahan, Stephen Elm street H. W. P.-Co.
Bernier, Edward High street Papermaker
Barrett, William F. Dwight street Papermaker

\
  JURY LIST.

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Brannigan, Thomas J. Dwight street Papermaker
Bresnahan, William Pine street Springfield

’ Begley, Thomas J. High street Laborer ,
Brassil Patrick J. Hampden street Laborer
Brennan, Stephen J.  Elm street Mason
Buckley, John P. Walnut street Machinist
Bynane, Patrick Pine street Teamster
Bardwell, Robert High street Clerk )
Barnes, James Maple street Cressey Thread Co.
Bartley, James High street Whitmore Mfg. Co.
Beaudro, William G. Maple street Hol. Machine, Co.
Beebe, Elmer High street Merchant
Reloin, Mederic H. Maple street Shipper
Benzio, Efisio Maple street Silk weaver
Bernard, Albert J. Essex street Clerk
Bogue, Henry J. Cahot street Teamster
Bolt, John Maple street Retired
Bosworth, Hiram E. Bond street Alpaca
Broderick, Edward A. Sargeant street. Coghlan Boiler orks
Brick, William J. Cabot street Albion Paper,C o.
Bugbee, Frank C. Chestnut street Linden Paper Co.
Bunyon, Maurice Cabot street Plasterer
Ball, Francis W. Clark street Carpenter
Batchelor, Frederick Chapin street Retired
Bhing, Joseph F. South street Molder
Begley, Matthew B. Gates street Painter
Bieber, Paul R. Glen street Laborer

 Bray, Thomas Westfield road Farmer
Brown, Fred P. Wolcott street Janitor
Boie, August W. James street Riverside Paper Co.
Beauman, Otto Meadow street Weaver
Beaverstock, Elisha F. Vernon street Machinist
Bliss, Leon W. Main street Bottler
Bowler, Richard Park street Laborer
Brown, James Commercial street Skinner

- JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

Babcock, William A. Pearl street Alpaca
Bell, John H. Cottage avenue Agent

Brown, Otho R. Highland avenue Clothier

Burbank, Walter F. Allyn street Clerk

Buck, Frank 'L. Pearl street Painter

Burke James J. Nonotuck street Merrick Lumber

Baker, Michael H.  Linden street  Plumber

Bowker, Henry Bh street Retired

Brennan, Patrick Center street Clerk
Beauchemin, Joseph East street Butcher

Benoit, Albert F. East street Cigar Manufacturer

Burnham Fred D. Main street Grain Dealer

Bail, Vincent Summer street Carpenter

Byrnes, John J. Center street Gill Paper Co.

Belding, Clark E. Grover street Hadley Co.

Brown, Ambrose L. Mosher street B. M. R. R. Co. |
Barnett, George West street Norman Paper Co.
Biggins, William E. East Dwight street Clerk

Brennan, Daniel J. West street Crocker Mfg. Co.

Burgess, Valmore Main street Clerk

Beauchamp, Ovila Bridge street Sausage Manufacturer

C

Casey, Bartholomew Lyman street Blacksmith

Cavanaugh, Daniel J. Chestnut street Butcher

Connor, Michael Maple street Laborer

Crean, John Maple street Bootblack |
Curtin, Daniel Jr. Chestnut street Mill Hand

Clifford, Michael Bh street Tailor

Cook, William Walnut street Parsons Paper Co.

Connell, Joseph Dwight street Waiter
Chabot, Damas J. Pine street Cigarmaker

Clifford, John Front street Spinner

Crowley, Frank D. Front street Nat. Blank Book Co.

  JURY LIST. ,? |
| NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Cavanaugh,Timothy W. Dwight street. Merchant .
Connolly, Patrick Bh street Papermaker
 Cayer, Eugene Mosher street Papermaker
Cary, Edward F. Bowers street Student
Curley, Frank J. Main street. Contractor |
Curran, Terrence L. Main street Real Estate Agent
Cartier, Cyrille L. Main street Musician |
Crowley, Daniel Center street Valley Paper Co.
Crowley, Cornelius Center street Plumber
Charest, Odilon Z. E. Main street Furniture Dealer
Clark, James T. East street Stone Cutter
. Coderre, Souliada Center street Papermaker
Campagna, Joseph A. Bridge street Grocer
Corriveau, Philemon Park street Barber
Cummings, Thomas J. Ely street Hol. St. Ry. Co.
Carroll, John H. Elm street  Holyoke Paper Co.
Chapin, Chalmers Lawlor street Retired |
Connor, Dennis J. Brown avenue Alpaca
Cuthbertson, John Washington avenue G. C. Gill Paper Co.
Cassidy, Henry Maple street Holyoke Paper Co.
 Chapin, Frederick J. Springfield street Carpenter
Crooks, Robert E. Canal street Dresser.
Cain, Earl J. Do Waldo street Carpenter
Casey, James J. Nonotuck street Carriage Maker
Chalmers, Thomas W. Beacon avenue Agent
Clough, James A. Hampden street Architect
Cummings, Owen D. Beacon avenue Roofer
| Cotter, William H. Farnum street Hol. St. Railway Co.
Caney, Charles A. Chestnut street U.S. Envelope Co.
Carolon, Cornelius Maple street Holyoke Paper.Co. |
- Caissy, Arthur J. Cabot street Weaver |
Clark, Robert High street Paper maker
‘Church, Ralph E. Maple street Trimmer
Cooley, Edward H. Newton street Molder
Cobb, Henry Commercial street Beebe Holbrook Co.


, \
; JURY LIST.  
NAME. ‘RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION, Cramer, Edward Cabot street Bookbinder
Crosby, Harry Maple street Agent
Cunningham, Henry P. Worcester place Machine fixer .
Curran, Maurice Sargeant street Laborer |
Cronin, Cornelius Bond street Retired
Cronin, James  Bond street Nat. Blank Book Co.
Dp
 Deen, Patrick Elm street Parsons Paper Co.
Doherty, Cornelius  Chestnut street ‘Prentiss Wire Mill /
Dowd, Francis W. Lyman street Barber \
Dowdall, George Lyman street Holyoke Paper Co.
Driscoll, Stephen  Elm street  Clerk
Driscoll, James J. Elm street Cigar Maker
Dixon, James Dwight street Watchman
Decker, James T. Bh street Papermaker :
Dufresne, Thomas C. Lyman street Poo! Room
Durnin, James Front street Papermaker
) Dennehy, Dennis Hampden street Whiting Paper Co.
Durnin, Thomas J. Clinton avenue Merchant
Dugas, George H. Race street’ Laborer
Ducharme, Valere  .Main street Grocer
Daze, Wilfred Main street Molder
Desroche, Joseph Bridge street Expressman
Daze, Fred Cabot street Molder
Dougherty, Barney Bridge street Core Maker
Danehey, John J. Bridge street Hampden Glazed
Denault, Joseph G. Appleton street Laborer
Doucette, William Spring street Holyoke St. Ry. Co. :
Dansereau, Francois H. Willow street Marble Works
Dean, Joseph Willow street Alpaca
Donoghue, Bartholomew Jr. Elmstreet Holyoke Machine Co.
Denton, Robert J. Maple street Grain Dealer
Davis, Charles S. Lincoln street Livery |
Deane, Ezra L. Pleasant street Deane Co.

?
: JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Delaney, James J. Arlington street
 Dickey, James F. Fairfield avenue Prentiss Brooks Co.
Donnelly, Peter J. Dwight street Steamfitter
Davis, Charles B. Linden street Stable
Delaney, James E. Oak street Contractor
Delaney, William H. Lynwood avenue ‘— Painter
Danehey, Michael F. Maple street Merricks
Dean, Eugene Maple street Fireman |
Demers, Hormisdas Maple street Photographer
Dougherty, Arthur J. Appleton street Booxkeeper
Downing, Michael High street Paper Mill
- Downing, Thomas F. Newton street Bausch Co.
Dowd, Edward F.  Sargeant street Brick Mason
' Drummond, John Chestnut street Skinner Mfg. Co.
  |
Kdwards, Joseph B. Bond street Printer
Egan, Jeremiah J. Chestnut street Teamster
Elliott, Palmer B. Glen street Gardener
Ezold, Bruno Vernon street Laborer
Egan, Jeremiah Maple street Papermaker .
F
Fahey, Timothy Pine street Mason Tender
Fenton, John J. Elm street Carriage Maker
Fitzgerald, Maurice C. Elm street Carpenter
Farrell, Daniel E. Maple street Canvasser
Feighery, Frank Elm street Insurance Agent
Fox, John High street Undertaker
Fahey, Patrick Walnut street Laborer .
Ferris, George B. School street Merrick Thread Co.
Finn, John J. Dwight street Merchant —
Flynn, Maurice B. Main street White Wyckoff
Fontaine, Joseph B. East street Baker

, JURY LIST.  
| NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Flynn, Daniel Center street White Wyckoff
Foley, Patrick J. Summer street Grocer
Farrell, Owen F. Spring street Farr Alpaca se
- Farr, Fred Willow street  Papermaker
Feather, Frank Washington avenue Tinner .
Fredericks, Hugo Northampton street Plumber
Fitzgerald, James J. Jackson street Holyoke Paper Co.
Ford, Charles J. Hampden street Salesman
Fowler, Joseph H. Northampton street Builder
Fay, Collamore T. Bh street Retired
Feeney, Thomas Essex street Machinist
Farrell, Edward Chestnut street Wire Weaver
Fitzgerald, Garrett Cabot street Carpenter
Fitzgerald, James J. Cabot street Mill Operative
Fitzgerald, Michael Newton street N.Y..N.H.& H.R.R.
Fisher, Charles A. High street Dresser Tender —
Flaherty, Michael D. High street Nat. Blank Book Co.  Flynn, Thomas High street Holyoke Machine Co.
Flynn, Simon A. High street Druggist
"Fox, John P. Commercial street Farr Alpaca Co. |
Fogarty, Michael J. Maple street Motorman bo
Freeman, Peter Jr. Maple street Produce Dealer
Ford, Alexander T. Newton street Teamster
Fox, Patrick Franklin street Farr Alpaca Co.
| G
Gallivan, Bartholomew Chestnut street Polisher
Gleason, Daniel Chestnut street Lyman Mills |
Greene, Patrick Walnut street Watchman
Griffir, Joseph F. Pine street Machinist Griffin, John A. Elm street Painter
Garvey, Thomas J. High street Clerk |
Geran, Dennis F. Walnut street Clerk :
Goss, Elbert E. High street Paper Mill

  JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Griswold, Albert E.  Maple street Packer
Gordon, Michael J. High street Mason )
Gillette, Wilbur F. Pleasant street  Bookkeeper 
Gear, Patrick Center street Machinist ot

Gobeil, Frank H. Center street Clerk
Gauthier, John R. Park street Molder
Gibson, Thomas J. East-Dwight street Roofer
Goodrich, Charles H. Grover street Hadley Co.
Green, George A. Center street Eureka Bindery

, Grise, Arthur E. Main street Butcher
Garvey, Thomas J. Chapin street Merricks
Gates, Seymour E. South street Real Estate Agent —
Godere, Leon Brown avenue Dry Goods’
Goodyear, Austin B. Washington avenue Milk Peddler

' Gardner, William Commercial street Linden Paper Co.
Geissler, Gustave A. Vernon street McLean Bros.
Geissler, Carl F. Canal street Laborer
Geissler, Max G. James street.  —- Bindery |
Gault, James J. Pleasant street. Merricks
Gilligan, Michael H. Hampden street Lyman Mills
Gallagher, Patrick Maple street Engineer
Glenn, Henry. Bristol Place Retired
Goddu, Frank B. High street Grocer 
Girard, George Bond street Whiting Paper Co'  Goodhind, Charles Newton street Teamster
Graham, James HI. Maple street Printer
Grittin, Patrick J. High street Hackman
Grady, James Elm street Merchant
H

Hancock, Thomas F. Oak street Parsons Paper CoIfawkins, James T. Chestnut street Papermaker
Hannifin, James J. Chestnut street Lunch Cart
Haley, John Elm street Papermaker |
Hand, Peter Front street D. Mackintosh Son® Co.

JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Hifle, Michael P. Linden street Butcher
Hamel, Alphonse Main street Singer Mfg. Co.
Hennick, Frederick W. Race street  Painter —
Hall, Fred C. West street Insurance Agent :
 Hunter, Charles C. Canal street Hadley Co.
Hagerty, Cornelius East street  Crocker Paper Co.
Hanson, Charles E. Sycamore street —H. W. P. Co.
Hardman, Samuel Brown avenue Linden Paper Co.
Hogan, Patrick View street Milk Peddler
Harty, James J. Gates street Painter
' Hills, George H. Lawler avenue Hol. Machine Co.
Humeston, Thomas R. Back street Holyoke Paper Co. 
Hartling, August Vernon street Wm. Skinner Mfg. Co.
Hartling, Herman Vernon street Wm. Skinner Mfg. Co.
Holl, Peter Main street Carpenter
Hyde, James H. Commercial street City Foundry
Hillman, Herbert E. Dwight street Agent
Houston, Henry S. Northampton street Bookkeeper
Hanson, Otto Walnut street. Valley Paper Co. —
Hardyman, William Sycamore street Holyoke Paper Co.
Hewlett, Jesse H. Suffolk street Excelsior Paper Co.
Hodge, James L. Pine street Retired
Hofmeyer, George. Rock Valley Blacksmitb
Hamilton, Abraham* Newton street Paper Finisher
Hanlon, John J. Chestnut street  Butcher
Hartnett, Jeremiah Jr. High street Expressman |
. Harvey, Thomas J. Chestnut street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Harrop, Samuel R. Maple street Farr Alpaca Co.
Hennessy, Thomas J. High street Plumber
Hinchcliffe, Joseph A. Maple street Mass. Screw Co.
|
 Ingraham, Henry B. Myrtle avenue Farmer .
' Tronsides, William High street Norman Paper Co.

  JURY LIST.
J
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Jasmin, Joseph Main street Retired |
Joyce, James Center street Papermaker
Julien, Arthur Main street Papermaker
Jones, Fred D. Suffolk street Mass. Screw Co.
Johnson, Michael J. Sargeant street Mason
Johnson, Robert M. High street Real Estate Agent |
K
Kieley, John J. Maple street Nat. Blank Book Co.
Kidney, James Lyman street B. M. Freight
Kelley, William F. Fountain street Clerk
. Kelliher, Maurice Oak street Papermaker
Kearns, Michael J. Main street Plumber
Keyes, Michael Summer street Papermaker
. Keate, Alexander W. Washington avenue Jolly Bros.
Koegel, William Brown avenue :
Koehler, Paul H. Carlton street Insurance Agent
Kelly, Michael J. Brown avenue  Hol. Machine Co.
Kreuter, Jacob Avon place Merricks
Kegan, Herbert C. Lincoln street Steam Fitter
Kinney, Edward Fairfield avenue Tilley Co.
Kane, John T. High street Mass. Screw Co.
Keane, Patrick J. High street Machinist
Keating, Thomas Commercial street Merrick No.  
Kilian, Frederick Hampshire street Bookkeeper
King, Neil C. High street Paper Mill
Kinnevan, Thomas J. Hampshire street Shipper
Kostenbader, Frederick W. Maple street Caterer
L |
Lynch, Thornas J. Maple street Merchant
Lamontagne, Abel High street Pool Room
Levesque, J. Ernest Main street Insurance Agent
Leduc, Hormisdas Spring street Barber

JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Leary, Daniel Mosher street Albion Paper Co.
Lambert, William East street Whiting Paper Co.
Lafrance, William Mosher street Collector |
Lamagdelaine, Romuald O. Summer street Printer
Le Doyt, George H. Northampton street Retired
Little, Arthur W. Cook street Merrick Lumber Co.
Lapointe, Alexander N. Brown avenue Collector
Lowcock, John Myrtle avenue Alpaca
Lowell, Harry I. Gilman street Painter |
Lynds, George H. Harrison avenue Bookkeeper
Lauckner, Gustave O.. South street Clothier 
Leidner, Albert O. James street Painter
Lyman, Eugene K. Beacon avenue Merchant
Labrecque, Felix J. Maple street Machinist |
Lang, Andrew Worcester place  Alpaca ;
Langevin, Frank, Sargeant street Alpaca
Leary, Daniel J. Maple street Clerk
| Lee, John H.  Newton street Blacksmith
Lippman, Louis E. Jr. Plymouth street Roofer ,
Lippman, George Maple street Pressman
Linehan, Frank Maple street Plumber F
Lowe, John  Worcester place Farr Alpaca Co.
vi

McManus, John Dwight street Molder
Murphy, Jobn P. High street Steamfitter
Mahoney Thomas F. Lyman street Lyman Mills
Morrison, William J. Walnut street Plumber
Mercure, Francis Union street Wm. Skinner Mfg. Co.
Malcolm, Allen J. Maple street Wire Weaver
Maloney, James II. Dwight street Engineer
McCrohan, Patrick J. Whiting avenue Beebe Holbrook Co.
McTigue, James Pine street Bookkeeper
Mulligan, Thomas, Walnut street Fireman
Murphy, Patrick Pine street Mill Operative

  JURY LIST.
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION,
Meyers, George Oak street Merricks
Mangum, John J. Pleasant street  Papermaker
Meehan, Richard V. Dwight street Papermaker
Miller, Ira A. Dwight street Lyman Mills
. Murray Joseph A. Bh street Plumber
Maley, Patrick Walnut street Papermaker
Moores, Joseph Dwight street Fireman
| Millette, John A. Lyman street Laborer
Maley, David J. Mosher street City
Mowbrey, Joseph Center street Hampden Glazed
  Murphy, Timothy Hamilton street Laborer
Miner, Frank Park street Plasterer
Moreland, William J. Main street Papermaker 
Marcotte, Antoine Main street Real Estate Agent
Mannix, Jeremiah Bridge street  Whiting Paper Co.
Messier, Victor Bridge street Agent
McElwain, Alexander West street White Wyckoff
McLean, Thomas  Sargeant street Clerk
McLean, William Sargeant street Excelsior Paper Co.
McCabe, James East Dwight street Hampden Glazed
McCauley, Charles F. Lyman street Whiting Paper Co.
McGrath, Martin Center street Papermaker
Mahoney, Patrick A. Brown avenue Clerk
Martineau, Edward N. View street Teamster
McLean, Hugh Jr. Glen street Merchant
Merrick, Charles I. Northampton street
Murray, David F. Chapin street Carpenter
Mann, Max Oscar Vernon street Painter
Mutter, William K. Adams street  Clerk
Morrill, Harvey F. Fairfield avenue Insurance Agent
Murphy, John H. Taylor street Conn. Rt. L. Co.
Marshall, Henry St. James street Merrick Lumber Co.
McNab, William Locust street Hampshire Paper Co.
Montague, Isaac W.  Oak street Retired
Major, Frank E. Newton street Painter |

JURY LIST.  

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Marrin, James J. Maple street Druggist |
Masterson, Benjamin F. Bond street Paper Ruler
McCabe, John Maple street Crocker Mfg. Co.
McCarthy, Frank J. Newton street Farr Alpaea Co.

- McCormick, Michael Commercial street Stone Cutter
McGarry, Thomas F. Newton street Whiting Paper Co.
McGrath, William Bond street Riverside Paper. Co. /
McKinnon, William Bond street Carpenter
McNairn, James, Newton street Farr Alpaca Co.
McNairn, John Maple street Shoemaker
Moriarty, Edward High street  Deane Steam Pump Co.
Munroe, Philip J. Maple street Ely Lumber Co.
Murphy, James P. Cabot street Baker
, id
Nelligan, Dennis F. Chestnut street Bricklayer
Noonan, Jeremiah F.. Chestnut street |
Nolan, Joseph P. Maple street Clerk .
Norton, Edward G. Pine street Merchant
Nolan, Edward P. Dwight street Painter
Nutley, John Jr. East street Crocker Paper Co.
Neilon, John West street Hol. St. Railway Co.
Newsome, Joseph Washington avenue Prentiss Wire Co.
Nye, Henry L. Northampton street Hol. Belting Co.
Naylor, John Maple street Farr Alpaca Co. ,
Neumann, Karl A. H. Park street Cigar Manufacturer
Newton, J. Bertram Chestnut street Manufacturer
Nicoll, Augustus W. Jr. Maple street Telephone Oftice
- .

O’Connell, Edward P. Dwight street Merchant |
O’Connor, Frank D. Walnut street Farr Alpaca Co.
O’Connor, Edward M. Maple street Printer
O’Brien, Alexander Pine street Carriage Trimmer

  JURY LIST.

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
O’Connor, John J. Maple street Teamster ,
O’Donnell, Joseph A. Lyman street Undertaker .
O’Connor, Timothy J. Chestnut street Cigar Manufacturer
O’Leary, Cornelius East street Papermaker

O’Connell, Henry J. Mosher street Papermaker
O’Connor, Maurice J. Nonotuck street Printer
O'Neill, Lawrence A. Walnut street Insurance
O’Brien, Patrick: J. Maple street Barber

Pp
Pease, Clarence E. Elm street Barber
Poyer, Henry Dwight street Painter
Provost, Henry Summer street Insurance Agent
Perry, William M. Ely street Lyman Mills
Perry, Charles J. Race street Merrick Thread Co.
"Pratt, Edward West street Atbion Paper Co.

Provost, Bruno East street Painter
Payan, Rock J. Main street Clerk
Porter, Horatio A. Race street Machinist 
Peters, Gustave Park street Machinist —

. Provost, Peter Summer street Laborer
Pomeroy, Frederick Clark street Papermaker |
Poehler, Herman Vernon street Painter
Parfitt, William H. Hampden street Painter
Parsons, George S. Howard street Parsons No.  
Pearsons, George T. Harvard street Real Estate Agent
Prentiss, Robert T. Taylor street Retired
Proulx, Daniel Walnut street Real Estate Agent
Partridge, William H. Maple street Plumber
Pierce, Frank G. Cabot street Hol. Machine Co.
Potvin, William S. Hampshire street Whiting Paper Co.
Prescott Joseph P. Suffolk street

JURY LIST.  
a Qi |
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Quigley, Michael F. Maple street Expressman
Quirk, Thomas Fountain street John T. F. MacDonnell
Quinn, William J. Elm street Case Maker
R
Riley, William T. Dwight street Salesman
Reardon, John Dwight street Clerk
Regan, Nicholas, Clinton ave H. W. P. Co.
Robert, Clovis Main street Retired
Ratelle, Oliva Park street Butcher
Richards, Louis M. Canal street Hadley Co.
Robinson, William Canal street Albion Paper Co.
Ryan, Michael East street Albion Paper Co. —
Ryan, John H. West street Hampden Glazed
Reed, John P. Clark street Riverside Paper Co.
. Rogers, Kossuth J. Laurel street Painter
Rogers, Sidney S. Pleasant street Crocker Paper Co.
Riley, Andrew Munroe street Sausage Maker
Rae, John L.  Appleton street Wire Weaver
Raynolds, Samuel, Elm street Holyoke Macbine Co.
Reid, David Cabot street Plumber |
Regan, James J. Maple street Retired
Ricker, Fred N. Maple street Engineer
Reynolds, Thomas F. Maple street Mason
' Rugg, Edward H. Maple street Clerk 
Ss
Sanderson, George W. Maple street Chadwick Plush Co.
Sargent, Robert D. Maple street Merricks
Savoy, George A. Elm street Nat. Blank Book Co.
Seibel, John Jr. Newton street  Paper Mill Operative
Sharpe, Frank A. High street Tinner
Shea, Michael Appleton street Clerk .

  JURY LIST.
. NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

Simmons, Edgar S. Essex street American Pad Co.
Sinclair, John R. Maple street Dandy Roll Maker
Skilling, Thomas Newton street Dyer
Smith, Theodule Maple street Clerk
Sullivan, Michael D. Maple street Holyoke Machine Co.
Sweeney, Thomas E. High street Printer
Swords, John J. Maple street Conductor
Stedman, Wilbur H. Maple street Papermaker
Still, Arthur J. Chestnut street Merricks

 §$tocks, John W. Newton street Tinner
Street, Franklin M. Chestnut street Salesman
Smith, Thomas S. Bh street Merricks
Sill, William A. Dwight street Teamster
Sutcliffe, George W. Bh street Transcript Pub. Co.
Sawin, Albert E. Taylor street Ely Lumber Co.
Sawyer, Charles P. Pearl street Machinist )
Shea, Richard Nonotuck street Foreman
Sumner, William J. Waldo street Coburn
Steiner, Albert Bridge street Janitor
Schmidt, John Bridge street Boarding House
Slate, Edmond J. Sargeant street Machinist
Slayton, Simeon B. Brown avenue Millwright Smith, Enos D. Brown avenue Whiting Paper Co. —
Steele, Ernest S. Laurel street F. C. Steele
Streeter, Philander A. Willow street Machinist
Sutcliffe, Samuel Main street Skinner Mfg.Co.
Sullivan, John Center street Papermaker
Smith, Charles HH. Canal street Hadley. Co.
Smith, Albert Main street Jeweler
Sullivan, Michael East street Papermaker
Sullivan, Michael East street Papermaker
Sullivan, Edward J. Center street Machinist
Sullivan, J. Henry Lyman street Merchant
Sullivan, Joseph Lyman street B. M. R. R. Co.
Sullivan, Patrick J. B. Elm street Hol. St. Ry. Co.

|
JURY LIST.  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION. ,
Sheehan, John T. Elm street Merchant .
Sampson, Edward Hampden street Beebe Holbrook Co.
Sheekan, John Jr. Hampden street Papermaker |
Smith, James E. Brooks ave Deane Steam Pump Co.
| Sparrow, William A. Dwight street Plumber

Stanton, Patrick G. Linden street Bookbinder

Sullivan, Frank J. Dwight street Clerk
Smith, Patrick J. Lyman street Printer ,

Shea, Patrick A. Lyman street Lyman Mills

Sheehan, John F. Front street  Molder
Spencer, Henry B. Front street Telegraph Operator

oT
Tracy, Clifford High street Paper Mill Operative
Taft, Michael Dwight street Steam Fitter
'  —- Tuttle, Thomas W. Elm street Photographer

Tetrault, Adolphe Main street Barber ,
Tomlinson, John A. Canal street Hal. St. Ry. Co.
Therrien Alfred Bowers street Ticket Agent |
Tucker, Thomas J. Bowers street Hadley Co.

Thornton, Edward J. Main street Papermake |
Thayer, Henry L. South street Ruler

Tracy, George  S. Cook street  Baker- Vawter Co.
Taylor, John J. Summer street Clerk  
Tiedemann, Max K. Commercial street Clerk

Tiedemann, Gustave KE. South Bridge street Clerk

Thorpe, George L. Pearl street  Builder

Tilley, Trenor P. Northampton street Tilley Co. ,
Temple, James Chestnut street Nat. Blank Book Co.
Tulloch, Archibald Chestnut street Machinist

U |
Upton, James M. Pine street Holyoke Machine Co. '

  JURY LIST. ]
; V
Valcourt, Emery Maple street Painter 
Vaughn, James. Newton street Whitmore Mfg. Co.
a Van Valkenburgh, Charles E. Newton street Painter
, W
Wade, Frank H. Bh street Compositor
Wylie, Albert Dwight street |
Ward, Martin Dwight street White Wyckoff Co.
Waters, Owen Bh street Merrick Thread Co.
White George J. Bh street Box Shop ,
Wrinkle, Lawrence E. Pine street Clerk
Wood, John M. Walnut street Papermaker
Widdowson, William Center street Hadley Co.
Whalley, Thomas Lyman street Mule Spinner
Walsh, Joseph B. East street Merrick Thread Co.
Waite, David E. Chapin street Contractor
Watts, Jonas A. Clark street Janitor
Wilms, Gustave A. Cook street Bookkeeper  
Williamson, Alexander S. South street Alpaca .
Winchester, Samuel B. Laurel street. H. W. P. Co.
Wood, Moses Hitchcock street Laborer
 Whitehead, Horatio Park street Retired
Wood, John W. Avon place Janitor
Wagstaff, Joseph Nonotuck street Hadley Co.
Williams, Daniel M. Taylor street Parcel Delivery
Wall John Pine street Stone Cutter
Whitcomb, Marciene H. Walnut street Real Estate Agent
Wilkinson, Thomas H. Walnut street Alpaca
Williams, John B. Walnut street Real Estate Agent
Wall, John E. Newton street Machinist
Walsh, James Cabot street Grocer
Warner, Samuel C. Essex street Riverside Paper CO.
Warren, Ernest E. Appleton street Printer
Webber, Frank C. Essex street Deaue Steam Pum \
oo JURY LIST.  

NAME. "RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Young, Miles K. Walnut street Alpaca

Prepared in accordance with the requirements of Chapter of
the Revised Laws of Massachusetts. ,
TIMOTHY J. O;CONNOR,

. THOMAS STANSFIELD,
! CHARLES U. ROY,
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, Cierk. ‘
Board of Registrars of Voters. ,;

, CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
: Mayor, W. B. C. PEarRsons.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. |
 —William Grover.  —John O’Donnell.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Aug. Stursberg.  —J. F. Allyn. .
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay. 
COMMON COUNCILMEN.

. President, C. H. Heywood. |
Ward  —Curtis Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —G. W. Burditt, C. B. Harris,  F. Stebbins.
Ward  Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew Walsh.
Ward  —W. D. Higgins, H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt. .
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, John O’Connell, J. A. Sullivan.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —R. M. Fairfield, H. A. Pratt, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.

City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

  CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
. Mayor, W. B. C. Pearsons.
so ALDERMEN. ,
WARD. WARD. |
 —William Grover.  —Edw. O’Connor.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss. |
 —Matthew Walsh.  —J. F. Allyn.
 -John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
 COMMON COUNCILMEN. :
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —John Moore, Jaiies Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler. ;
Ward  —S.J. Donahue, Peter McKeon, E. A. Newton.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
- Ward  Horace Brown, Chester Strong,Reuben Winchester.
Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer— William Whiting.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

  CITY OFFICERS.
. .
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARsons.
| .
/ ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —-William Ruddy.  —Maurice Lynch. |
 —C. B. Harris. --C. H. Heywood. |
 —H. Springborn.  —J. F. Altyn. |
  J. Donoghue. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
, COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. Bb. Tower.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, G. H. Smith, E. Whitaker.
. Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J. S. Webber.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’Donnell.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M. Manning.
Ward  —A. D. Barker, J. E. Delaney, J. H. Newton.
Ward  —H. C. Ewing,  S. T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.
— Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer— William Whiting.
Messenger—J. II. Clifford (deceased), J. R. Howes.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, R. P. Crarts.
ALDERMEN. os \
WARD. WARD. ,
  —M. J. Teahan. d—D. H. Donoghue.

 —G. H. Smith.  —C. H. Heywood.

  H. Springborn.*  —G. P. Ellison.

"— UA. Stursberg. |

 —S.  Donoghue. COMMON COUNCILMEN. |
,  President, C. D. Colson.
Ward  —John Ford, Richard Patte, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J" N. Thayer.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Michael Lynch, M. M. Mitivier.

, Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sullivan.
Ward  —E. W. Chapin, E. A. Ramsay, Porter Underwood.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.

City Clerk—J. E. Delaney. ,
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet. ,
Messenger—J. R. Howes.

* Resigned. ,

  CITY OFFICERS. 
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Wituiam Wuitine.
| ALDERMEN. WARD. WARD.
 —T. S. Grover.  —C, D. Colson. }
  C. B. Harris.*  —D. E. Sullivan.
“UG. H. Smith.  William Skinner.
  A. Stursberg.t  —G. P. Ellison.
 (James Stafford. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. E. Syms.
Ward —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaac Tirrell. .
Ward  --A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, E. F. Sullivan. —
Ward  —James P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte-Marie,
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, E. O’Connor, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Henry C. Cady, J.  McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C, W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*—Died March +—Resigned.

| CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
: Mayor, Witutiam WHITING. '
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Ruddy.  —D. E. Sullivan. ,
 —F. R. Norton.  —William Skinner.
 —Henry Winkler.  William S. Perkins. ,
 —Charles D. Colson. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
- COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John O’Donnell.
’ Ward  —G. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D. Walsh.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin P. ;
Goodall. .
Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.
 Ward  —Victor Guyott, Peter McKeon, T. J. Ryan. ,
Ward  —-Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O’Donnell.
: Ward  —H. C. Cady, J.S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden 
W. Prentiss.
Clerk—Simon Brooks. ,
City Clerk—James E. Delaney. .
City Treasurer—James R. Howes.

  CITY OFFICERS. a
 CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
| Mayor, Wiu iam Ruppy.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. "
 —Jobn D. Walsh.  —John O’Donnell.
-  -—F. R. Norton.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —Henry Winkler.  William S. Perkins.
, -—James P. Casey. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
" COMMON COUNCILMEN. ,
President, James Greeley.
Ward  —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W. Maher.
Ward  —John L. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John
McDonald. |
Ward  -—Pierre Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy
J. Ryan. |
Ward  —Michael Cleary,Michael Downing, Timothy Haley.
Ward  —Charles b. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A.
Whiting. |
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John B.
Munn.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
 Messenger—Charles M. Hackett. |

|
- CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
| Mayor, F. P. Goopatt. ;
ALDERMEN. .
WARD. WARD. ,
  —Casper Ranger.  —D. J. Landers.
 —Fred Morrison.  —E. A. Whiting.
.  —P. J. Sheridan.  —R. Winchester.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
| President, Hervey K. Hawes.
| Ward  —Michael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel S. |
Chapman.
Ward  —Royal C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller, Dwight O.
Judd.
Ward  —Herbert Hicks, Lyman F. Thorpe, Charles K.
Heubler.
Ward  —George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E.
Herbert.. :
Ward  —James  Lee, John F. Shea, Thomas Pendergast. :
; Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H.
Smith.
Ward  —Charles C. Hastings, Lyman B. Moore, John B.
Munn.
. Clerk—Simon Brooks. ;
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney. 
. City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS. '
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Roswe.. P. Crarts.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. .
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  —William A. Chase.
 —C. R. Heubler.  —W. T. Dean.
 —-Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
, President, Amos Andrews. a
Ward  t— William Brennan, James Spillane, William H. Jess.
| Ward  —E. R. Pierce, Joseph Beauchemin, George W
Richards.
| Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. Driscoll, W. E. O’Keefe.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, Thomas Pendergast, Michael
O’ Keefe.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, H.H. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker. ;
Clerk—J. F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger— Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS. Dad
/ CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Rosweii P. Crarts.
ALDERMEN.
WARD.’ WARD. ,
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.
 Isaac Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser.
|  —John T. Lynch. —W. T. Dean.
 —-Thomas Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
“ COMMON COUNCILMEN.  
President, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —William H. Jess, John M. Sheridan, M.C. Browne.
 Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, Frank  S. Lynch, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sullivan.
Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, D. H. Ives, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

\
  CITY OFFICERS .
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
 
Mayor, JamMES E. DELANEY. ,
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. ;
 James Greeley. o—E. O’Connor. :
*  —Isaac Tirrell.  Elias P. Ford.
 —John T. Lynch.  —C. C. Hastings.
 —-John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue.

Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey.

Ward  —George W. Richards, Didace Sainte-Marie, Thomas
If. Sears. .

Ward  —John Lowcock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.

Ward  —William Sullivan,* Matthew Doherty, Thomas
O’Donnell, Amede F. Gingras. .

Ward  —Roger P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody, Michael
Manning.

Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli L. Brockett, John J. Reardon.

Ward  —Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M.
Gilmore.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton. :

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin. |

City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger— William T. Walsh.

*—Died November .

. CITY QFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  ,
| Mayor, James EK. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Reardon. o—R. P. Donoghue. |
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Eli J. Brockett.
 J. K. McCarthy.  —John K. Clark.
  John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin. .
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.
: Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G. McCar- |
thy. }
Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F. Doyle.
Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F. Canavan.
Ward  —Thomas O’Donnell, P. F. Carmody, Matthew
Doherty.
Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas J. Fitz- |
gerald. |
Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting, John L. Burlingame.
Ward  —John K. Judd,S. B. Allyn,  S. M. Gilmore, *George
W. Doane.
| Clerk—John F. Stapleton. .
, City Clerk——M. J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—E. L. Munn. |
Messenger—- William T. Walsh.
* Resigned. .

  CITY OFFICERS.
, CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, James J. O’Connor.
, ALDERMEN.
WARD. "| WARD.
 .—J. J. Sheridan. dS—R. P. Donoghue.
 —Francis J. Curley.  —William E. Syms.
 —James J. Curran.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
, President, John K. Judd.
Ward  —James C. Keough, William A. Casey, Jeremiah
G. McCarthy. .
Ward  —James H. Fitzsimmons, Edward Donahue, James
W. Toole. .
Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J.
Westphal.
 Ward  James H. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning, Matthew
Doherty. |
Ward  —James F. Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F.
Greaney. ,
Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, Charles H. Whiting, Charles
L. Newcomb.
Ward  —Johbn K. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M. Cain.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. ,
City Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
 City Treasurer—Oscar Ely.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
: CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, James J. O’Connor.
| ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William H. Jess. o—James F’. Cleary.
 —James W. Toole.  William E. Syms.
 —Henry Winkler.  —John Hildreth.
 John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
. COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James C. Keough.
Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholo- :
mew J. Lynch. |
Ward  —Edward Donahue, Thomas J. Gibson, Nazaire
Beliveau. :
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bleumer. SS
Ward  —Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis S. Paquette.
Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.
| Ward  —Charles L. Newcomb, Henry E. McElwain, J. Sanford Webber.
Ward  —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Richard C. ,
\ Kilduff.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin. ,
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

|
  CITY OFFICERS.
, CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  :
, Mayor, James E. DELANEY.
| ALDERMEN. ;
C WARD. WARD.
| .
 —L. F. Hayward, Jr. o—H. E. McElwain.
 —J. W. Toole.  —C. L. Newcomb.
. H. Winkler.*  —John Hildreth.
"| M. Manning. Clerk, M. J. Grittin.
 —John Dillon.
‘COMMON COUNCILMEN. .
President, Michael J. Lavelle.
 Ward. —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John Blasius.
Ward  —Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Beliveau. :
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C.
Kelly. )
Ward  —John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis Herbert. ‘
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D. Perkins.
Ward  —Charles L. Allen, Lucius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.
 Ward  —George L. Thorpe, John Longway, Jr.; George V.
Osgood.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griftin.
City Treasurer—Edwin I. Munn.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
“Resigned June  .

CITY OFFICERS.  CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Jeremian F. Sutvivan, ,
ALDERMEN. .
WARD. WARD. ‘
 —John C. Sullivan.  Richard Shea.
 —William B. Buckley.  —-Dennie L. Farr. ,
 —George Spamer.  —K. L. Squier.
 —Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk, M. J. Grittin. |
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
, ae President, J. J. Callanan.

Ward  —John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen.

Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J.
Kennedy. 

Ward  —James F. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J. Taylor.

Ward  —Patrick A. Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene

Shea.

Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W.
J)oran. |

 Ward  —Lucius Ely, C. L. Allen, James LL. Davis.

Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George V.
Osgood. ,

Clerk—Daniel W. Kenny.

City Clerk— Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Eadwin L. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

,  CITY OFFICERS.
- \
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SuLLIvAN.
ALDERMEN.
. WARD. WARD.
 —M. P. Conway.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  -—C. D. Colson. ,
 —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
|  N. J. Baker. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas Connor.
Ward  —William Brockway, Joseph A. Peltier, Maurice J.
, Sullivan.
Ward  —Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C.
O’Leary. |
Ward  —Herman Heinritz, John J. Taylor, Onesime Viens.
Ward  —Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene Shea.
Ward  —Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles McCollister.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Mederic J.
Laporte.  :
Ward  —Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Frederick
C. Steele.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. City Clerk—-Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger-— William T. Walsh.

t
CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  ..
Mayor, Michar. J. GRIFFIN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. ,
 —M. P. Conway. d—J. J. Callanan.
 QT. J. Kennedy.  —J. P. Prescott. ,
  —Michael Connor.  —F.C. Steele.
 —R. P. Donoghue. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway, John H. Ryan, Maurice J.
Sullivan.
. Ward  —John Black, Arthur B. C. DeLaunay, Cornelius
O’Leary.
Ward Max C. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Albert C.
Renner. )
Ward  —Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  —Jobn E. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel J.
- O'Connell.
Ward  —Mederic J. Laporte, Stephen E. Gifford, John B.
Miller. os
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles McCollister, Henry
D. Williams.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. 
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien. |
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr. :
Messenger—William T. Walsh. CITY OFFICERS.
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN. |
. ALDERMEN.

“WARD. WARD.

 —William Haney.  —A. Higginbottom.

 —Antoine Marcotte.  —M. J. Laporte.

 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.

 —-Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Henry D. Williams.

Ward  —Joseph Hebert, Henry L. Mohan, John H. Ryan.
Ward  —John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Paul Schubach.
Ward  —Frank O. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P.

Sullivan.
Ward  —Wilhiam L. Bishop, Patrick H. Brennan, William

B. Miles.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, George E. Pickup, Frank C.

Webber.
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. McCollister,

Henry D. Williams.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.

| of q
CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
. Mayor, Denniz L. Farr. |
ALDERMEN.
President, Michael Connors.
- WARD. WARD.
 —William Haney. o—J. J. Callanan.
 —Fred St. Martin.  -—M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes. a
 —T. J. Dillon. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien. |
COMMON COUNCILMEN. |
President, John L. Connor. .
Ward  —Patrick Gear, Joseph Herbert, David H. Toole. ,
Ward  —Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril T.
Labrecque. .
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest R.
Tauscher. )
Ward  —Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O’Connor, Daniel
P. Sullivan.
Ward  —-Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, John Naylor, Frank C. Webber.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M.
‘Hartzell. ,
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. :
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien. |
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
- CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Marcienr H. Waitcoms.
ALDIRMEN.
President, Rufus B. Holmes. .
WARD. WARD.
 —T. J. Lynch. —R.  S. Burns.
 —F. St. Martin.  —James A. Allyn.
 —M. Connor.  —R. B. Hoimes.
 —-P, W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. .
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole,* John Daly,
James Wall.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendi/ ville.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S, Laplante, Ernest R.
Tauscher.
Ward  —Frank Fitzgerald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyme
' §. Menard.
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Elbert Goss, Frederick N. Ricker, Edward N.
White.
oo Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M.
Hartzell.
Clerk—Daniel W. Kenny.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien. ,
City ‘Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.
*— Resigned.

é |
, ]
 CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Henry A. CHase.
, ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. S—Richard  S. Burns.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —John. Wall. |
 Richard H. Dietz.  —George H. Lynds.
| --Thomas J. Lynch.
: COMMON COUNCILMEN.
. President, John LL. Connor.
Ward  —-Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —John H. Donoghue, Victor S. Laplante, William
J. Mahoney.
| Ward  —John J. McIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F. Sulli- ,
van.
Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Edwin M. Chase, Elbert Goss, Caleb J. Humeston.
Ward  —-Conrad V. Hein, Charles P. Randall, William OWhite.
Clerk—Daniel W. Kenny.
. City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
 City Messenger— William T, Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS. }
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, James J. CuRRAN.
, ALDERMEN.
President, Timothy J. Lynch.
WARD. WARD. ;
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
|  —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Adam Leining.  —Frank Feather.
 —-Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Patrick H. Prendiville.

Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary.

Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr.. Henry P. Cunningham, Patrick H. Prendiville.

Ward  —John H. Connor, William J. Mahoney, Patrick
W. O’Rourke.

Ward  —William J. Dillon, John J. McIntee, John J. Riley.

Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, Edward J. Kenney, William
O’Connell.

Ward  —William D. Bunnell, Thomas H. Kearney, Henry
Reed.

Ward  —James Collingwood, Charles Randall, Homer J.
Stratton. ]

Clerk—John P. McTigue.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Grorer H. Samira. ,

President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS ).
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.

 Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean. :
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Salime J. Benoit. Wiliam J. Ryan. ,
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George A. Savoy. |
Morris Hicks. James H. Staples.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

|—Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  Elbert Goss.
 —F rank Feather.  —Charles P. Randall. :
 Patrick J. O’Connor.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger— William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
\
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
} Mayor, MicuaEL Connors.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Hugh McLean.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J oseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell.  Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton. .
| ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward  —Timothy J. Lynch. Ward  —Michael J. Doyle. Ward  —Samuel Migneault.  Ward  —Elbert Goss.
Ward  —Frank Feather. Ward  —James H. Wylie, Jr.
Ward  —James  S. Lacey.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Dierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

| CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  —
Mayor, Arruur B. Cuapin. —
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin. .
Arthur M. French. William McCorkindale. |
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
; Edwin L. Squier. .
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Joseph J. Beaudry.  J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan. :
| Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward  —Timothy J. Lynch. \
, Ward  —Samuel Migneault.
Ward  —Moritz E. Ruther.
Ward  —Joseph A. O’Donnell. .
| Ward  —Michael J. Doyle.
Ward  William G. Beaudro.
Ward  —Frank.B. Towne.
} City Clerk—Edward A. Kane. |
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, Arruur B. Cuapin.
, President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
 ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). .
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. William McCorkindale.
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
’ Edwin L. Squier.
| ALDERMEN BY WARDS. ,
Ward  —John P. MeTigue.
Ward  —Arthur R. Vincent.
Ward  —Herbert C. Clark.
Ward  —Florence Donoghue.
Ward  —Michael J. Doyle.
Ward  -—William G. Beaudro.
Ward  —Frank B. Towne. ;
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane. ,
City Treasurer-—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

| CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ArtTHUR  B. CyHapPin. ,
President of the Board of Aldermen, Michael J. Doyle.
} ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
* William G. Beaudro. John J. Finn.
. Edward F. Dowd. Charles S. Hemingway.
William O. Ducharme. James M. Kennedy. |
William McCorkindale.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin. |
/ Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber. “
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. 
Ward  —Dennis O’Leary.
. Ward  —Eugene Laramay.
‘ Ward  —John R. Allan.
Ward  —Florence Donoghue.
Ward  —Michael J. Doyle.
Ward  —John C. Carlin.
Ward  —Frank B. Towne. :
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.*
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.t
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*—Died April .
t—Elected City Clerk by Board of Aldermen April .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ArtHur B. Cwapin.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George B. Noonan.  Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Charles S. Hemingway. Edward F. Dowd.
William O. Ducharme. William G. Beaudro.
John J. Finn. James M. Kennedy.
 William McCorkindale. ALDERMEN BY WARDS. )
Ward  —Dennis O’Leary.
Ward  —Eugene Laramay.
Ward  —Leon W. Bliss.
Ward  —Alexander O’Brien.
Ward  —Euzgene F. Kane. |
Ward  —John G. Dearden. ,
Ward  —Thomas W. Holley.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh. ,
 Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran. .
.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHapPIin. ,
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy. ,
, ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
. John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
— William G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy. |
William Lambert. :
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin. ,
} John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
| Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. .
. Ward  —Patrick J. Sullivan.
Ward  —Eugene Laramay.
Ward  —Leon W. Bliss.
, Ward  —-John T. Sheehan.
Ward  —Eugene F. Kane.
| Ward  —James Devine. :
Ward  -—Thomas W. Holley.
| City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—J ohn C. Doran.

t
; |
, ’
Digitized by Google

x
.
.
s .
.
.

| |
|

!

| |



