REPORT OF THE
, Pnincipal of the High School.
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools:

The report of the Holyoke High School for the year  
is as follows:

, ENROLMENT AND ATTENDANCE.

The important items in enrolment and attendance for six
years are shown in the following comparative table. The items
are for the school years ending im June:

  ,
Total enrolment 
Average membership,  
Average attendanee, 
Per cent attendance,  
Tardinesses, TAT 

The total enrolment for the fall term threugh December
  the average membership  gains of and  respectively, over the same period last vear.

The inerease in enrolment, membership and attendanee
has been even and satisfactory for the past five years, the averREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
age membership having increased by seventy-seven and the
attendance by two per cent. The best record in tardiness was
achieved in  In the two years since there has been .
a slight increase in the number of tardiness, which increase
is greater than the growth of the school explains. .

Tardiness is exdingly difficult to reduce because of the
attitude of so many parents toward it. To judge from the explanations given by tardy pupils, it is considered of no great

 consequence that pupil comes tardy. The common explanations are slow clocks, late rising and errands. There is evident lack of care and forethought in these explanations. Vagarious clocks have margin of error that is easily noted. Pupils
should retire regularly and arise as regularly, and the needs
of most morning errands can be anticipated. If tardinesses
ean be reduced to the number of those absolutely unavoidable,
there need not be over in the course of year. ‘That the
number of tardinesses per annum has been reduced from over

  to under is not sufficient reason for satisfaction while
there is large amount of unnecessary tardiness that can be
eliminated. .

THE COURSE OF STUDY.

Many pupils for some time after entering have no objective to which to direct their work. Usually these elect
largely at random and their work leads nowhere. Some of
these by their junior or senior year have acqured an ambition to go to higher school but are wide of the line of necessary preparation and either have to abandon the ambition or
have to take graduate work here or elsewhere. To protect
these people from their own indecision it is reeommnded that
the indicated work be increased so that each pupil must present for diploma three years of some language not English, and
either geometry or bookkeeping in the second year. The alternative of bookkeeping for geometry is made so that pupil
who definitely is following business course may not have to

  REPORT OF SCHOOL CUMMITITEE
take on more than fair load. This change will make as follows the ,
PROGRAM OF INDICATED WORK.
* —l— I— —ti— —IV—
Language.  EnglishI. English If, English JIF or English IV.
French orGer-  FrenchTorJlor French IT or French III or
man lorLatinI. Germanfor!! Ulf or German German IIL or
or LatinTorI£ or HIT or Latin HLor IV
or Gsreek I. Latin II or HI) or Greek IIL.
or Greek II.
Mathematics .. Algebra. Geometry or
Accounts. Bookkeeping.
History... History, U. S.
Science... Physiology.

Hours Indicated  

The total number of periods required weekly is nineteen.
English is taken four periods weekly, physiology one period,
other languages, science, mathematics, bookkeeping and stenography, five periods weekly, history three and four perieds.
Manual training, mechanical drawing, drawing, elceution and
typewriting, are classified as unprepared subjects and requiring no outside preparation count for only one-half compared

, with the other subjects which need outside preparatien. In the
program above it is shown that the indieated work takes fourteen of the entire number of required periods in the first year,
fourteen in the second, ten in the third and seven in the fourth.
If the beginning of the language be made in the second year,
the indieated periods in the first year will be nine, in the last
vear twelve. The entire number of indicated periods in this
submitted program is forty-five out of the seventy-six required
for diploma. as against forty hitherto.

This program will meet the need of pupil fitting for
almest any school. It is equally adapted to the needs of the
business course, ample time being reserved in it for bookkeeping and stenography. The eommercial course  made the more
valuable by the languaye. If pupil who has no plan in the
election of his work for the first two vears is restricted as

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
above, he reaches the junior year prepared to turn either to
college cr to business without loss of time.

THE CERTIFICATE PRIVILEGE. :

In May,  representatives frem the faculties of Dartmouth, Tufts, Mount Holycke. Smith and Wellesley Colleves, and Besten, Brown and Wesleyan Universities, formed
the New England College Entrance Certificate Board. There
joined these later Amherst, Bowdoin and the University of
Maine.

The function of this Board was to be the reguiation ef the
granting of the certificate privilege to seeondary schools.
These sehcols were notified that their privileges would expire
with the year  and that schocls desiring the renewal of
the privilege for and following must apply to the Board.
Appheation was made by the Helyeke High Sehecl in due
form, and, in the ordinary, would have been acted on at the
May,  meeting of the Board. Its eonsideraticn was postpened until the fall meeting when it was decided that the
privilege could not be granted us. Notice of the demal eame
late in October.

The denial disappointed our reascnable expectations. We
had had every reason to believe that our school would be on
the approved list. Interviews were arranged at the earhest
with the cffieers of the Board to learn the basis of the Board’s
refusal. The utmost courtesy was shown us in the investigaticn. The Board had made its deeisicn on the number of failures of certificated pupils for the first semesters of Assuming the reports from the individual eolleges to
the Board be correct, we had fallen below the standard set
and had merited our punishment. The questien then to be answered was: Were the reports correct?) Another question
preceded that: Was the procedure of the Board entirely just ?

A memorandum of the ease was prepared for presentation to the Board in which it was maintained, in substanee,
that, before the action of the Board, no complaint had been

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

made against us by single college of the group; that the

records of our pupils, except in the case of one college, had

been satisfactory or very high; that satisfactory performance

of the certificate conditions with those colleges had put them

under obligation not to cut us off without opportunity to meet '
what was virtually new standard. The secretary of the |
Board stated that one cause of complaint had been the admitted practice of certain secondary schools to certificate to

the smaller colleges pupils who were unsuccessful in examinations for larger colleges. The memorandum maintained that

our schools had acted always in good faith with all of the ecolleges in the matter of certification.

The colleges to which we had certificated pupils were
asked to furnish us the lists of failures they had submitted to
the Board, which was done. In one college we had been credited with the failures of two pupils that we had refused distinctly to certificate. Two low marks charged against two
other pupils were protested on the ground that the final
semester marks were satisfactory, the reported low marks hav‘ing been estimates made early in the semester. In another
eollege number of low, not failure marks, were charged
against our pupils, together with small number of actual
failure marks. Objection was made to counting against us
certain of these marks because of the varying interpretation
put on them by the professors as reported to us. This objection was allowed after time.

The revisions made by these two ecoileges in the charges
against us changed materially the full count, so that in May,
 the Beard admitted our school on probation for that
ealendar year. Only two certificates were granted by the
school in that year. In the following May,  the school

- was admitted for full period of three years, which will expire with  ,

With this departure of the colleges of the New England
College Entrance Certificate Board we are in full accord, and
such we stated in the memorandum to the Board. It may be
questioned in fairness if the method used to punish schools,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
which had been unfair in their relations with the colleges was
not unjust because it brought into disgrace schools acting
entirely in good faith but unfortunate because of temporary or
localized failure. This is said without any imputation against
any member of the Board. They were found to be fair minded
representatives of their colleges. In their zeal they did not
realize that they were inflicting unmerited punishment in
some cases.

It is cause for congratulation that the certificate privilege has been restored to us. This privilege must be considered in the future as privilege and not right whose benefit pupil may claim if he has done work of certain grade.
The school must reserve the right to deny the benefit of the
privilege to pupil of even the first rank if there is any reason to believe that he may not represent the school satisfactorily at college. This will not shut the college door on any
graduate; the entrance by examination is open to him. But
the responsibility for deficient work caused by over-attention
to social functions or over-confidence will not have to be borne
by the school but by the pupil where usually it of right should
rest.

ATHLETICS.

Football has been the focus of hostile criticism through
the country since the beginning of the last season. It is probable that the only cure is the substitution of another form of
the game for the present form. The action of President Butler of Columbia probably anticipates what will have to be
done generally. game that has to be played largely in a
huddle is no game and properly is not entitled to the name.
The conclusions drawn by the two physicians in charge of the
Harvard squad last fall are based on sufficient data to give
them some authority. Certain of these are especially noteworthy, as

( ). The greater number of the injuries come in the
‘*pile’’ and not in the open plays.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

( ). The number of injuries is inherent in the game itself.

( ). The game does not develop the best type of men
physically, because tco great preminence is given to weight
Without corresponding nervous energy.

( ). Constant medieal supervisicn of the game where
large numbers of men are employed is neevssity and not a
luxury. |

( ). The percentage of injury is much too great for any
mere sport.

With might be joined statement from another part

) of the report, this: ‘‘The surgeons got in the way of watching every ‘pile’ with great interest and apprehension.’’ Every
observer of game will report the same experience.

With econelusion are we particularly eoneerned. This

* designates the consummate flower of the game, the man of
tons, not the man of well-balanced physical and nervous energy. The correctness of the deduction here made by the physiclans cannot be controverted successfully. The condemnation of the game les therein.

| An autumn field sport is indispensable. If American
rugby football must be abclished, what can be put in its place?
The game ealled Association is an excellent substitute. In
this game the ball is in sight all of the time, there is no huddling of the players and ‘‘pile’’ is impossible. Everything
isin the pen. The game requires eonstant activity and judgment and is sufficiently strenuous to keep the most vigerous
busy. It would serve the best interests of secondary schools
to have this game substituted for the present gladiatorial eontest.

THE CORDS.

Three able teachers have resigned from the corps iu the
last six months. Mr. Seott is now head of the departinent of
Latin and Greek in Woreester Academy, Miss Cunningham is
teacher of history in the Classical High School in Somerville,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
and Mr. Downcy is junior master in the Boston Latin school.
Miss Mary P. O’Flaherty, who has been very successful
teacher of Latin and Greek, has been promoted to the headship
of the department. Miss M. Adele Allen, formerly teacher
in the school and of very successful experience, has been
elected to the headship of history and assistant in Latin. Miss
Annie L. Gilligan, Smith,  and Mr. John A. MaeDonnell,
Harvard,  have been elected teachers of history and
mathematies, respectively.

M. M.S. MORIARTY.

REPORT OF THE
Principal of the Evening High-and
Grammar School.
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools:

The Evening Grammar School maintains its good record
of attendance and scholarship during the present year. While
the enrolment was no larger than in  the record of attendance has been almost ten per cent higher, showing that
the pupils are appreciative of what the city offers them and
are determined to make the very best of the short time the
school  in session. During the present year new departure
was made at the suggestion of the superintendent by opening
one class of illiterates, all the members of which were of the
same nationality. teacher was put in charge and the objective system of teaching tried with considerable degree of
success. From the results obtained it would seem to be good
plan to extend this system to similar classes in the future.

The regular work of the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth
grades has been continued in the school and the graduating
class of last year numbered thirty-three. 

EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.

The Kvening High School enters upon its second year
with an enrolment of  males and females).

The classes in bookkeeping, stenography and typewriting,
mechanical drawing, English and French have increased enREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
rolment this year; the classes in Civil Service work and chemistry were also continued and, there being strong demand for
it, class in physics was opened. The greatest interest among
the pupils is shown in the commercial and English departments, the per cent of attendance of these classes being
eighty-five per cent and ninety-one per cent respectively.
In this connection word must be said for our Civil Service
department, the good work of which is evidenced in the fact
that half dozen young men of our school have successfully
passed the examinations and are now in the federal service.

The school has been conducted this year as last, number
of classes in the Appleton Street building and the commerclal and chemistry departments in the High School building.
This is merely for the purpose of convenience, the central location of the Appleton Street building making it particularly
well adapted for evening school work. It is still to be regretted, however, that the school is not housed in one building,
and naturally the High School is the only building properly
equipped for the work, though its location is something of a
drawback to good attendance at present. We hope to overcome this objection, however, within year or two when the
publie will have become better acquainted with the quality and
character of our work. The same high standard of excellence apples to this year’s classes as in  the members are 
young men and women of sterling character and thoroughly
In earnest.

I would recommend that some definite courses of study
be fixed upon by the School Board, the satisfactory completion
of certain number of which would entitle pupil to diploma, for although all our pupils attend the school solely for
the good they receive, vet many of them would be pleased and
perhaps better satisfied were they accorded some such reeognition of their faithful work. would ask superintendents and
overseers in our mills to see to it that the young men and
women attending our school receive recognition by promotion
or advancement in their duties when opportunity is afforded.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
This would inspire them with desire to study harder and
the knowledge that their employers are interested in their |
moral and intellectual welfare will result in better work and
inore satisfactory return to the employers.
- Respectufully submitted,
P. J. GARVEY. :

Finances and Statistics.
GENERAL STATISTICS.

Population of Holyoke, September, 
Total valuation of property, 
Total number of children cf school age  to  ),  
Total nuinber to vears of age,  
Total number of pupils.in all schools, year ending

June,  .  
Number under years of age,  
Number under years of age,  
Number between and years ef age,  
Average membership in all schools,  
Average attendanee, —.  
Per cent of attendance,  
Total income of seheol department, —. 
Total expenditure, , 
Balance, , 
Expended by Board ef Publie Works (repairs,

fuel, power and light),  
Total expenditure for support of schools, —. 
(cst per pupil based on average membership, 
Cost per pupil, based on average membership,

 —. , 
Average for the State, report of  
Tax on one dollar valuation,  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
| FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
RECEIPTS.
Dog taxes, , 
Tuition,  
Sales,  
——— 
Appropriation, 
Less payment on teachers’.
salaries, . 
$ 
Total expenditures,  
Balance, $ 
ESTIMATES.
Estimates Estimates
 Expenditures.  .
Supervisors, 
Day teachers,  . 
Evening teachers, +, 
superintendent,  . 
Clerks,  . 
Truant. officers,  . 
Janitors,  . 
Truant sehool,  
Furniture,  . 
Text books,  . 
Edueational supphes,  . 
Building supphes,  
Rentals,  . 
Freight, express and cartage,  
Laundry,  
Livery,  
Offiee,  
Printing and advertising, an 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Special help,  
Transportation,  
Telephones,  
Census,  
Unclassified,  
$ 

CLASSIFIED EXPENDITURES.
SALARIES OF SUPERINTENDENT, CLERKS AND TRUANT OFFICERS.
Superintendent—Louis P. Nash,  
James J. O'Donnell, ...  
Clerks—Agnes M. Cadieux, .)  
Mary J. Callahan, re  
Total, Coe  
* Truant Officers—Thomas W. Doyle,  
Edouard Cadieux, ...  
Thomas E. Gallagher, ...  
| Joseph D. Goddu (Census), ..  
Charles H. MeTigue (Census),  
Total, Ceeee

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
JANITOR’S PAY ROLL.  
Schools. Se Rooms, Schoole Total.
B. F. Griffin, High, 
P. J. Hynes, High  
Patrick Hartnett, High, 
Mary Moynahan, High,  
George Hifle, High  
Highland,  
John Hanley, Appleton st.,  
J. M. Sullivan, Dwight st.,  
Jas. Gilhooley, Elm st.,  
Jas. France, Elmwood,  
F. J. Schirek, Hamilton st., , 
John Ahern, Highland,  
Ingleside,  
Thos. O’Connor, Nontuck st.,  
P. F. Lynch, No. Chestnut st.,  
Ewingville,  
Fred P. Brown, Park st.,  
C. R. Moreau, Sargeant st.,  
B. J. Downie, So. Chestnut st.,  
Wim. A. Moore, Springdale,  
J.J. Moriarty, West st.,  
West Holvoke,  
Michael Burke, Park st.,  
Hieh,  
[lighland,  
Patrick Green, PHoiehland,  
Michael Foley, West st.,  
John Carroll, Sargeant. st.  
Michael Curtin, Tigh,  
Daniel Harrington, Pheh,  
Extra help, High,  
$ 
;

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
BUILDING SUPPLIES.
Brooms, . 
Counter brushes, ’,  
Chainois, ,  
Cheese cloth, ,  
Disinfectant,  
Dusters—bristle, —.  
Mats, ww  
Mops and moppings,.  
Pails, .  
Pencil sharpeners,  
Soaps, ete,  
Sponges,  
Waste baskets,  
Unelassified,  Loot  
$ 
EDUCATIONAL SUPPLIES.
Bookkeeping, .—. . 
Drawing, 
Enylish, ;  
Erasers—rubber,  
Erasers—blackboard, +. 
Geography, +  
History, ;  
Kindergarten,  
Manual training,  
Mathematies,  
Musie,  
Paints, brushes, ete.,   .
Paper,  
Pencils,  
Pens and penholders,  
Science, ,  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Stenography, ,  
Writing, Lo,  
Unclassified, .  
$ 

TEXT BOOKS.

Bookkeeping, . 
Drawing, .  
English, toe,  
French and German,  
Geography 
History, ,  
| Kindergarten,  
Latin and Greek,  
Mathematics,  
Musie,. .  
Science,  
Stenography, ,  
Unelassified, ,  
$ 

| STNANMNAO amnna mats
BSARERORSASRATTIS BRITS  /m
TFOMTOMOMDBHHNRNACQOT RS  wt 
SS SII—SABRT ARS SB  ADS Boo WIS
mon TOUNOORMROMAAGVADANR AWAISN [FL
MOAARAn SUAS OOOH AO rere 
O) on oe ome oe 
nm 
| Rn
TT TP Sem —CUCUOUM lc MK OUNONH..LUCMCOCOTOIOIOTO wct
!  Yeas sawansse  
| snoaa nn TY rR MO  AAAMrRO WH WN am mm CQ ST
NAN mu ananvVno nO MOA aizr
“Bl [OST va) lo] wa)
| Rm —
| [e} () 
aN Ly] zt
| mB BEZRS FTHOERSSR q
Aspaney] AWDMOaNn OO ONRNRNRD Tm —”
|  oe ™
. my ,
a
| )
wr wm oO
way  Ps
oe) Oo mA a

a L,
AwztO  DD -+ OFD 
; ror MQ oO
wit YSsSQ SS SVR ve ig
| Paw  mod mn Oo mm la
e ow AN
MQ
AOODONNTAQAO OM on OSS CRRA RANTS  BOBQARAS MISE SAMrO ,
rd ARABI RL? BABS ABB  
eo  ome aN
om “a
QIN RHO MANDAN DOR OO  Oo TN
iV a)
| SAIGSSRLAASISSASLS BGS BS
anoonan ROA ATMS on aA an fe)
  syood MOLQDABOD ROOD ARS ts +
 aL me me ts
  MeGwo Maoorn wn  
‘  mN COMM MOH EHEMOOD mM
owrwn tod Beoesageane ree an a)
WN anywiamy OM  QD Nm me al?
 man rw  ont “
ret SI
ao CC
a) OQe rrToOaROn any MOdOOAT “
MAR MPTMNRMMAK COMMA HM On 
D weiSS SSSSSELSPSSLILLGS SHS +s [ei
-— ot ome ad
Ss) [eaonwonpy Cl ome om  st om ot me ot Cy
O +
SO
Sanyas ass SAsSAarTs  
oN MMO MNO OAT AM TO ae
| sattddng MMDNOOD ST NA TYSos on
Zuipiing  Aa MOm MSF MBM MN STA 
| &
"Oo tno  wn Cc ao fo) +
  |S
 OSSZSRBAsaegagd AnNnanwon si N[ wm  mo Oo NO ROMA AM PTAMMNM wn
; nm RO CO ON moO OO RHONA QA AN  .
a)  Ww
a  
a *
ID WO HO FOND OO AAD Qn x
OAMYHO eK TMMMmMMMNA MNS yoann tT
FTFm™MmreMmMODBD NOOO nwodad ON STN TARTNMAN OCH H— BDH .rMDH ONO Mm ARO  me oO
, SPRL PAM ODOMMBHDOONRNATDVAR MND WDRO [
AD NERO em MmMomOOooKrMA 
a rw om ome *
a i
ee
an  
re .,.§ 
‘e) se AY  Zs
fe) VEST YU  so f&
en) Se §FH§Sse CPc ESVEZS
o& wim ne eC th ete ot OS
O oO VQ cw+ fad ok YG
a Msgs slhys SMI SS Boras Sse
oe eoee SE  
EMeAkawcrenzwzc eFy O,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
December, Coe 
January,  
February,  
March,  
April, . 
May,  
June,  
, July,  
August,  
September,   
October,  
November,  
Total for year,  ————— 
Total receipts, 
Balance, 
COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE MEMBERSHIP. 
: Cost Based on Cost Based on Teaching only.
Total Expense. oO
Tfivgh Sehool,  
Grammar and sadergaren
Appleton Street,  
Dwicht Street,  
Elm Street,  
Khuwood,  
Ewingville,  
Hamilton Street,  
Highland,  
TIneleside,  
Nonotuek Street, .
North Chestnut Street,  
Sargeant Street,  
Park Street,  
South Chestnut Street,  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Springdale,  
West Street,  
West Holyoke,  
Evening Schools:
High,  
Appleton Street,  
Hamilton Street,  
North Chestnut Street,  
Springdale, $. 
West Street,  
EXPENDITURES FOR SEVERAL YEARS COMPARED.
  .
Salaries of day teachers
and Superintendent  
Kindergarten teachers  . 
Evening Elementary
Schools  . 
. Evening Grammar School    
Evening High School  
Truant officers ..  . 
Janitors    . 
Clerks. re  . 
County Truant School  
Text books  ...    
Educational supplies  . 
. Printing and advertising  
Furniture,  ...  . 
Building supplies oo.  . 
Telephones .. Livery  ...  
Transportation of pupils . 
Freight, express and drayage. we  
Rentals  wk,  
Laundry  
Miscellaneous and contingent... wt  . 
$  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
: STATISTICS OF ATTENDANCE.
; mee vee s
x gu Ss ts] Ap
- te S| woe as f) ws
S“)|S  A’)  oS Ga!  S
Es|Gs| go -| s\  ar So fs rly
Z E| SB) be o} Gs
w  os  z
| é| sa |e ta |
High School    
Appleton Street   
Dwight Street   
Elm Street II  
Elmwood   
Ewingville   I
Hamilton Street . 
Highland | 
Ingleside  
Nonotuck Street   
North Chestnut Street II  
Park Street   
Sargeant Street   
South Chestnut Street   
Springdale    
West Street ) 
West Holyoke  
we
| SEs
Evenin 
y Schools: Zs
} -
High ) 
Grammar /£  
Hamilton Street    
North Chestnut Street / 
Springdale Hh oe   
West Street |}  
Digtizea ty GOORe

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
There are now on the pay roll (December) the following
number of persons:
Superintendent of Schools, a, dt
Clerks, .  
Attendance Officers,  
—  
Principals of day schools (large buildings),  
High School teachers (not including principal),  
Ninth grade teachers, §
Eighth Grade teachers,  
Seventh grade teachers,  
Sixth grade teachers,  
Fifth grade teachers,  d
Fourth grade teachers, ..  
Third grade teachers,  
Second grade teachers,  
First grade teachers,  
Ungraded school teachers,  
Kindergarten teachers,  
Assistants, . .
Supervisors, ,  
Total number of day school teachers,  
Principals of evening schools, D
Evening High School teachers,  
Evening Grammar School teachers,  
Evening Elementary School teachers,  
Total number of evening school teachers,  
Janitors, .  
Total number of persons on pay roll December,   

|
|

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

APPOINTMENTS AND CHANGES—DAY SCHOOL
TEACHERS. |
RESIGNED.
Edmund D. Scott, James E. Downey,
Maude M. Cunningham.
APPOINTED.

Mary Adele Allen, John A. MacDonnell,

Arthur J. McDonald, Mary P. O'Flaherty,

Mary M. Quirk, Annie L. Gilligan,

Abbie I. Keough, Lena I. Spamer,

Catherine E. Scully, Katherine C. Conway,

Agnes M. Kelliher, Katherine E. Leary,

Kathryn Lynch, Mary C. Shine,

Helen V. Connor.
TRANSFERRED.
Theresa L. Dowd, Emilie Collingwood.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
Anna Flaherty, Khizabeth J. Markham.

Graduating Classes.
HIGH SCHOOL.
*Sophie Elizabeth Allen, Pauline Alicia Judge,
*Eliza Muriel Allyn, Charles Louis LaBreque,
William Simpson Arnold, *Vera Bartlett Lawrence,
Gertrude Johanna Elizabeth Arnold,
Maebelle Zayde Arthur, *Kathryn Lillian Lynch,
Mary Philomena Bhegh, *Lallian Beatrice Maxfield,
James Bernard Bigelow, Ethel Lillian MeCorkindale,
*Daniel Francis Brennan, Minnie MeMoneevle,
Edward Joseph Burke, Leonard Oleott Mills,
Margaret Mabel Cassidy, *Elizabeth Morrill,
*Helen Chapin, Jcseph Max Moise,
Vera Estelle Chapman, Juha Anne Myres,
“Edwina Magna Chase, Claire Elizabeth Nugent, ,
Charles Cameron Clark, Agnes Gertrude O’Connor,
*Rachel Louise Clark, Ella O'Keefe,
*Ruth Swan Clark, Grace Agnes O'Neill,
Robert Emmet Cleary, Mary Elizabeth O'Neill,
Margaret Alice Connor, Judson Lanphere Parker,
Mae Hortense Cooley, *Paul Merrick Potter,
Elizabeth Hall Cowie, Nathan Newberry Prentiss,
Roy Theodore Crosby, Maude Nellie Prescott,
Robert John Curley, *Flora Fidelia Prince,
Bessie Dalton, Louise Veronica Quigley,
Audry Veroniea Delaney, Grace Pauline Remshard,
Walter Herman Dietz, *Rene Alphonse Richard,
Edna Vivian Dobbs, Avnes Elizabeth Rohan,
Flora Hall Douvherty. Mary Teresa Ryan,
Agnes Maud Dunn, Raymond Franeis Schirch,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

Ellen Elizabeth Elliott, *Marguerite Sears,

Harold Emerson, Jeremiah James Shea,

*Helen Emerson, Honoria Kenneliy Shine,

*Daniel Higgins Fenton, John Edwin Sickman,

Della Viola Flynn, Martha Pomerene Sickman,

Ethel Gertrude raleigh, '*Beatrice Mary Smith,

Albert Gladstone Fuller, *Beatrice Mary Smith,

*Helen Brita Gaylord, Annie Elizabeth Snow,

Frank Carroll Gilligan, John Francis Sullivan,

Eileen Cecelia Hafey, Eula Rebecca Taylor,

Eliza Hall, *Gertrude Louise Wallace,

Richard Jerome Herlihy, George Aloysius Warren,

Richard Maleom Hill, Bessie May Wilkinson,

*Laura Elsie Ingraham, Ray Maynard Wiley,

Lillian Gertrude Jess, Clark Milton Wilson.

, Class of  Charles Warner Van Volkinburgh.

*With Credit.

APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.

Marie Ashe, Albina Estelle Frances Jordan,

Marguerite Aubrey Barrett, Augusta Louise LaMay,

Ella Gertrude Beaudro, Lena Miriam Landers,

Grace Clare Elizabeth Beauregard,

William Edward Russell Bedard,

Ruth Madeline Bishop, Alexander Levine,

Daisy May Bork, Raymond Farwell Lyon,
| Georgia Madsen Buekland, Anastasia Louise Lacey,

Harold Herman Burkhardt, Lulu May Mallon,

Max Bernhard Bluemer, Vera Margaret McCrohan,

Florence Marion Bright, Henry Paul Martin,

Olive Reardon Burns, Donald MacDonald,

Georgiana Marie Cardinal, Walter Aloysius MacDonald,

Herman Maurice Childs, Vernon Moyett, |

Elmer Clark, Ernest George Dwight Monk,

Lillian Estelle Clark, James Raymond Maloney,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
,
George Arthur Clark, Robert Henry Marshall, |
Harold James Crimi, Alexander Gordon Milton,
Eleanor Whitney Cook, George William Mauer,
Ida Louisa Madeline Cook, George Warner Metcalf,
Edward Thomas Aloysious Coughlan, |
Mary Katherine Dempsey, Mary Doris Moynahan, .
James Joseph Dempsey, Katherine Louise Moore,
Nigel Henry Diamond, Constance Elizabeth Moore,
Stephen Paul Dunn, Joseph Wilbur Francis Murray,
Charles Edward Dickinson, Clement Edw. Anthony O’Neil
Henry Raymond Farrell, Leila May Osborne,
Geraldine Marie Farrell, Isabelle Phillips, ,
Albert Collamer Fay, Alma Frances Ranger,
Theresa Elizabeth Fenton, Albert Cuzner Rackliffe,
Dorothy Norton Franz, Claribel Spencer Rackliffe,
Harriet Beatrice Fuller, Ella Mary Renner,
Charlotte Bryant Fuller, Edgar Louis Renner,
Maurice Anthony Feeney, Charles Albert Renner,
James William Fitzgerald, Hellen Alta Richards,
Emmett James Foley, Arthur Joseph Richard,
Annie Fitzgerald, Emma Olga Richter,
Beatrice Ella May Greene, Caroline Ruth Stedman,
Pauline Estelle Guyott, Elizabeth Hubbard Skiuner,
Ruth Gow, Emily Smethurst,
Harriet Sophia Guibord, Frederick Lyman Squires,
Joseph Francis Henry Hartnett
John Edward Thomas Hartnett
John Monro Hooks, Ella Elizabeth Soderbaum,
Stephen Lloyd Hollis, Jennie Finley Stewart,
Grace Winifred Holmes, Ksther Agnes Stokes,
Maybelle Blanche Humphrey, Charles Sumner Sullivan,
Ethel Elizabeth Hicks, Esther Agnes Tatro,
Jean Marguerite Hood, Adalord Augustine Vachon,
Ruth Hubbard, Lillian Caroline Wightman,
Ralph Burnett Hubbard, Friank Charles White,
Victor Elizur Holyoke, Mary Jane Minary Wright,
Lillian Pauline Johannis, Ida Beatrice Young,
Harrison Morton Young.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
 ELMWOOD SCHOOL. .

Gladys Emma Bailey, Harriet Eleanor Moynihan,
Lea Olivine Bonville, Elton Marland,
Julia Chapin, Homer Edward Newell,
Helen Davies, Walter Ellis Nye,
Carolyn Virginia Davis, Emery Peterson,
Ldward Ducherty, Rachel Margaret Potvin,
Clara Vilena Farr, Mildred Geraldine Reed,
Edward James Gleason, Iva Grace Smith,
Sidney Arthur Harrington, Urson Wells Smith,
Edward Daniel Hallisey, Raymond Robertson Stuart,
I*rederick John Heinritz, Max Svirsky,
Henry Hertzsch, Lawrence Alexander Tatro,
Oiive Evelyn Horne, Rena Bell Van Volkenburg,
Gacorge Joseph Keating, Adelaide Anna Williams,
Alfred Hill King, Raymond Christian Winkler,
Helen Elizabeth MeIntyre, George Deming Whitmore,
Margaret Taylor McIntyre, Gardner Wood.

HAMILTON STREET SCHOOL.
George Ahnet, John Halfpenny,
Helen Marie Bader, William Stephen Hopkins,
Adalbert George Bavlne, Bridget Esther Kemple,
Jaeob Lows Barowsky, Una Corinne Lawrence,
Anvelina Ida Beanheu, Aliee Leahy,
Arthur Joseph Beaudrey, Charles Ernest LaPlante,
Wilham Max Bretsehneider, Ana Margaret Manning,
Helen Augusta Boer, Khea Blanche Miner,
Ellen Brown, Harold Alexander MeNee,
Herbert Buekley, liermann Neumann,
Alice Dawson, Rose Louise Perry,
Katherine Agnes Driscoll, Pinhp Reinhard,
James Russell Fyfe, Armand Joseph Silvain,
Emil Grustave Geissler, Arthur Ilenry Stevens,
Rosa Marie Haller, Sarah Stella Weissbart.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE .
HIGHLAND SCHOOL.

Bertha Loretta Allyn, Jennie Judge,
Isabelle Ceeilia Allyn, Ciarence John Judye,
Irving Wills Ballard, William John Judge,
Henry Warren Ballou, Derothy Stanley Kegan,
Audna Mildred Ballou, Frank Herbert Kegan,
Stella Elizabeth Jane Barlow, Everett Allyn Kinney,
Dorothy Latimer Birehard, Jane Moir Lawrence,
Earl Russell Brown, susie Marie Leary,
Alice Edith Browne, John Martin Lynch,
Marguerite Bradley, Elsie MeAuslan,
Matilda Grace Gertrude Callahan, .
Florence May Cary, John Joseph Moynahan,
Leshe Lavilla Caswell, James Kendall Morrill,
Jennette Amelida Cavanaugh, Theresa Elizabeth Moriarty,
Laurence John Cavanaugh, Benjamin Rudolph Newcomb,
James Francis Cleary, stanley Francis O’Leary,

| Russell Thomas Conners, Marion Alice Pomeroy,
Chnauneey Herbert Cooley, Arthur Joseph Perrault,
Mabel Voghn Crosby, Roland Ricker,
Catherine Christine Curran,  Ejilen Gertrude Riley,
Lueretia Elizabeth Diekinson, Katherine Cecelia Rvan,
Iethel Heeker Evans, Eleanor Senior,
John Jcseph Evans, Phebe Marion Strugnell,
Ruben Julius Evans, Kathryn Margaret Sullivan,
Faul White Farnsworth, Lilhan Margaret Sullivan,
Caroline Lilhan Frcst, Mabelle Anna Sullivan,
Charles Joseph Grant, Fiossie Ray Tardy,
Francis Xavier Iafey, Hazel Delia Thomas,
Jerome Thornton Hafey, Clayton Thomas,
Watson Ely Holley, Merritt Alfred Vining,
Arthur Joseph Horrigan, Bertram Chas. Julius Warner,
Mabel Bessie Howes, Leonard Blakeslee Warner,
kachel Ashley Johnson, Fayette Osgood White.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
NORTH CHESTNUT SCHOOL.
) John Francis Carroll, Elizabeth Adamson Paton,
Alice Marguerite Cray, Mary Rubin,
Marguerite Catherine Hancock,Philip Sisitzky,
Daniel Francis McLean, Rachel Rose Sisitzky,
Bertha Elizabeth Parsons, Rachel Irene Stahl,
Lila Holbrook Woodruff.
WEST STREET SCHOOL.
Gordon Alexander Abert, Mary Fiorence M. LaBreton,
George Henry Arnitz, Margaret McCarthy,
Eva.. Mary Blanche Beaudry, Lina Mary McCarthy,
Edward Patrick Brick, Alice Aileen McCauley,
Harold Lorenzo Card, Blanche Elaine Merrifield,
James Tosh Clark, Louis Charles Miller,
Lillian Clare Conners, Margaret Stuart Munr,
Louise Mary Elida Desilets, Katherine Frances Murphy,
John Peter Flanagan, Isabeile Teresa O’Connor,
Grace Agnes Flynn, Anna Perron,
Anna Margaret Gear, Adelard Arthur Roullier,
Emma Lauretta Greene, Leo Richard Roullier
Alfred Lawrence Hart, Helena Marion Riley,
Wilham Hickey, Madeline Carmelita Ryan,
Daniel Jeremiah Hickey, Wilham Joseph Shannon,
Rose Marie Teresa Johnson, Sylvester Lawrence Smith,
Wilham Johnston, Allen Milton Steele,
Mary Esther Kelley, Luella Thompson,
Caroline Olive Kenfield, Wilham Andrew Welch.
WEST HOLYOKE SCHOOL.
Charles Herman Bluemer.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
EVENING SCHOOL. 
MECHANICAL DRAWING. )
John F. McCabe, George W. Shannon,
Ernest Stocklin, Anthony Bennett,
Charles U. Berard, John J. Shannon,
William Richmond.
: GRAMMAR SCHOOL.
NINTH GRADE.
Fred W. Bluemer, Martha Cochrane,
John Traquair, John Johnson,
John R. Sears, Gcorge Cunningham,
“rank MeIntyre, Eaward Rouillier,
Fred J. Gleason, Ernest. Escott,
Helen M. Fitzgibbon, Francis Naughton,
Agnes L. Shea, Mary Mackley,
Jane Clark, Katherine V. Kennedy,
Gordon W. Goyette, Daniel Sullivan,
Peter W. Swords, William H. MaeMonegall,
William F. Moquin, Arthur N. Coderre,
Frank Desmond, John L. Bluemer,
Timothy P. O’Leary, lienry Hopkins,
Walter C. Meyer, John Macdonald,
Alice A. Leary, Bert W. Carven,
Mary Foster, Mary G. Moriarty,
Marie Morrison.

REPORT OF
TRUANT OFFICERS.
To the, School Committee of the City of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN :—We herewith submit to your Honorable
Board the report of your Truant Officers for the school year
ending June together with the report of the school
census that was taken during the months of September and
October.

Your Honorable Board appoinnted Messrs Charles
MeTigue and Joseph Goddu to assist Mr. Gallagher in doing
the school work, while Messrs. Doyle and Cadieux were taking
the census. While they were taking the school census they
also took the population of the city by request of the Mavor,
and found the population to be  the state enumerators
reporting only to Chief Pidgen of the Bureau of Statistics. The number of children between five and fifteen vears
of ave residing in the city, September was  a
gain cf over  .

The fcellowing table shows the school census by districts.
September September  and May the
cain in each district in each of these years; also the number
attending the public, private and parochial schools; the
number at work and the number neither at work nor at
school, ete.

District orislacstelrialoluoi  
,  LLOl    oGO  
Gain over TAOS tS mee es aa  
| |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Sept.  Sept.  Gain! Loss
  

Number attending Public Schools, -| |
Number attending St. Jerome’s School, .|  
Number attending Precious Klood School,  
Number attending Sacred Heart School,  
Number attending Perpetual Help School, 
Number attending Rosary Parish School,  
Number attending Mt. St. Vincent School, go  
Number attending Holy Family Institute,  
Number attending Private Kindergarten,  
Number attending other Private Schools,  
Number at work in Mills, Shops and Stores,  
Number not at work nor at School,  
Number Minding House,  
Number Sick or Otherwise Affected, 
Number at Truant and I.yman Schools,  
Total,  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The following table shows the number of children in each
district neither at work nor at school between the ages of five
and fifteen to be  less than in  are under the
school age (seven years) and are not required by law to attend
school, over fourteen years and are not obliged to attend
school on account of being over the compulsory age, leaving
but children between the ages of seven and fourteen years
not attending school.
a qi  af
SolPalSolbolee Seles Sroi Fz Fe &
ea) ee)as) na  
es en ne a
! tt |
I 
     rr!  po  ot I
  It ; I  
Total,    

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
The following table shows the number in each district at
work in the mills, shops and stores, also the number minding
house, September, and September,  gain of over
  employed in the mills, shops and stores, and less
minding house.
Districts /  |/ 
Mills, shops and stores,  I)  
Minding House,   
Total, Ss  |  
otal    
et

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ABSENTEES REPORTED.
lal slglalelelglelsl —
oO wm
$) a)  S) 
SCHOOLS cf DT) oe] T)  -+lae] 
Zi§|siglisigis/eis Ble
oe
Shestnut Street, TET)  
Nest Street,  L}  
East Dwight Street, oO  c!  
.  
Nonotuck Street,  
pt Jerome’ |  
Roan eip,  
osary, 
Park Street ;
rar Street,   
iamilton Street,  t;  
Sargeant Street,  
So. Chestnut Street,)  s|  
Appleton Street, rol  s!  
Elm Street, Io   
Elmwood,  
Sacred Heart.  
Precious Blood, S|  
Springdale, 
| ss   

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.

 gielgigieizizieie gl

‘Elglaliig SF)  ).

SCHOOLS Z| cle le  

a.  Ss) Pa Fo)  

PERLE: 
| P| 

Chestnut Street,  gl 
West Street,  
coe oa
St. Jerome's, a: so go  
Perpetual Help,  
Park Street,   
Rosary,  
Hamilton Street,  t|    

Sargeant Street, |  .
Precious Blood, Hood :
Elm Street, Io) In)  
Appleton Street,   
So. Chestnut Street,  
Sacred Heart, 
Elmwood,  HS
Springdale,  
; it

—} —| i}  —|—

os wl so 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
a wil nl wi wl w
  S/S)  al).
Schools -}orloe] cl] rl el ela

  /s! i|e;f ialalswe| eis

AlSi/zl/alSlegiel|/se ale
Chestnut Street,  to} 
West Street,  ]{  
East Dwight Street, |/ 
Perpetual Help  
St. Jerome’s }]  {|   
Park Street, @y]  
Hamilton Street,  §|   @]  
Sargeant Street,  
So. Chestnut Street,; /] 
Appleton Street,  
Elm Street, 
Sacred Heart,  
Precious Blood   
Springdale  
Rosary 

   

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE STREETS.
a
+ wm wy wh wn wm
$)  a]  oe Land  n
SCHOOL oe -|l gis
Ae ei sislelisgisalalwel| si] s
Sid lz ialsl@lisizetis{/ /e
Chestnut Street  
West Street I
St. Jerome’s  
Park Street 
Hamilton Street I
Sargeant Street  
Elm Street I
Appleton Street  
Sacred Heart I
 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
From Chestnut Street School, there were  -truants and  
truancies.
From West Street school, truants and truancies.
From East Dwight School, truants and truancies.
From St. Jerome’s School, truants and truancies.
From Perpetual Help School, truants and truancies.
From Rosary School, truants and truancies.
From Park Street, truants and truancies.
From Hamilton Street School, truants and truancies.
From Sargeant Street School, truants and truancies.
From Elm Street School, truants and truancies.
From Appleton Street School, truants and truancies.
From South Chestnut Street School, truants and truancies.
From Sacred Heart School, truants and truancies.
From Precious Blood School, truants and truancies.
. From Springdale School, truants and truancies.
Total truants and truancies.
TABLE OF AGGREGATES.
g  oad ezelas liz]  
MONTHS.  ets gee efi|e  @.  RSS| a) es|  
September, I
October, I
November, I
December, I
January,  
February,  
March,  
April, I
May, 
June,  I
|  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Last June your Honorable Board increased the truant
officers foree. From December  to December ,
it cost  to maintain truants at the truant school, and
from December  to December thus
saving From September to December where
two officers were engaged, the number of truants was and
from September to December during the time three
officers were engaged, the number of truants was  less
than the four months ending December We have now
eleven boys at the truant school compared with fourteen the
previous year. |
We have issued certificates to minors between fourteen
and sixteen years of age, during the year ending November  ,
 more than were issued the year previous. Under the
new law that goes into effect January that no minor
under sixteen years of age shall be employed in the manufacturing, mechanical or mercantile establishments unless he
can read and write simple sentences in the English language,
we have found but very few that are not so qualified.
Thanking you, Gentlemen of the School Board, Superintendent and teachers for your advice, counsel and assistance,
Yours respectfully,
| T. W. DOYLE,
EDOUARD CADIEUX.
THOMAS E. GALLAGHER,
Truant Officers.


ANNUAL REPORT ,
, OF THE 
Board of Assessors
OF THE |
City of Holyoke
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING DEC.  ,
 
SS LT
ee
HOLYOKE, MASS.
M. J. DoyLE PRINTING Co.
 .

aye Google

- REPORT OF
Board of Assessors.
Assessors’ OFFICE, City HALL, .
December .
Hon. Nathan P. Avery, Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen:
GENTLEMEN: In accordance with the requirements of the
existing ordinance, the Board of Assessors respectfully submit
the following report for the fiscal year ending December  ,
 :
Appropriation, Ck 
Expenditures,  
Balance, .:.. |
——— 
EXPENDITURES.
Assistant Assessor,.  ... 
Clerk,  ...|
Advertising,  
Printing street lists, ...  
Books, stationery, ete,. .)  
Telephone,.  
Team hire,. ..  
Assistants taking polls, 
Traveling expemses, ..  
Postage stamps, ...  
Miseellaneous,. ..  
$ 
Balance on hand,  ..  
$  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS
TAX WARRANTS.
A State Warrant as fixed by Chapter  Acts of

 to wit: Four Million Dollars, 
A County Warrant for the proportion of the City

of Holyoke of County tax, as per Chapter

 Acts of  to wit: One Hundred Fifty- )

three Thousand Five Hundred Dollars,  
A City Warrant for the taxes of the City of Holyoke for City purposes, as fixed by Section  ,

Chapter  of the Revised Laws,  
An overlay on above amounts,  ...  

Aggregate of Warrants committed to Board

of Assessors, $ 
POLLS.
The Polls recorded for assessment before August  ,
included in the estimate which determined the tax

rate for the current year, were,  
Under the operation of the law providing for the supplementary assessment of omitted male persons,

determinined by the registrars of voters to be lable

for assessments, under Chapter  Section  of

the Revised Laws, were added to the list,  ...  

Making the total number of polls assessed, 

VALUATION.

The valuation of the City of Ilolyoke, as of May ,
determined by the assessors July of that year, when the
rate of taxation was fixed, is as follows:

Value of land, toe   
Value of buildings,  ). 
Total value of real estate...  

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
Value of personal property other than bank stock,  
Value of shares of national

banks, located in Holyoke,

taxable in said city, ..  

Total value of personal

estate, Soe el§$ 
Total valuation of the city

upon which taxes were

assessed for the financial year, all assessments were made, was,  

The rate of taxation was made  per thousand of the
valuation of real and personal property, subject to taxation
under Chapter of the Revised Laws.

EXEMPTED PROPERTY.

Property exempt from taxation under Section  Chapter

 of the Revised Laws, is as follows:
United States,  SS .stsiaSSsi$:' 
City of Holyoke,   
Houses of Religious Worship, 
Temperance, Charitable, Scientific and Literary,

ete., corporations,  

$ 

The valuation ean be further increased  for
Bank Stock assessed at the several rates and places where the
banks are located, as the taxes are paid to Holyoke as assessments upon this class of property held by its citizens in Massachuetts banks located outside of Holyoke.

The valuation of Personal Property is further increased
in addition to the amount given in the foregoing table, by the
value assessed by the Commonwealth upon shares of Massachusetts corporations, including also proportionate part of Street

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS
Railway tax, measured as per Section  Chapter  of the
Revised Laws, all of whieh is the property of residents of the
City of Holyoke, "
As revenne from these two sources is always estimated
before the amount to be raised by taxation is determined, the
effect of valuation on this property in reducing the rate of
taxation is really the same as though its amount was included
in the Assessors’ valuation, and assessed by them.
The increase in valuation over is as follows:
Real estate,  ...
Personal estate, ... h.OettsC  
Total increase, . 
VALUATIONS.
Real and personal estate by assessors’ general
assessment, oo...   —S——™—S:CS  
Massachusetts Corporation Stock (assessed by
state), tax paid to the qty,  ... 
Massachusetts National Bank shares (assessed
by state), tax paid to the elty,  ..  
Total taxable valuation,  ... 
Real estate of the Umited States, 
Real estate of City of Holyoke,  
Real estate of TIlouses of Rehigious worship,  ...  
Real and personal estate of teimperance, charitable, scientific, literary, ete., corporatoms, 
Total exempt valuation, 
Total valuation as of
May .. 

REPORT OF BUARD OF ASSESSORS  
The assessors on October  th of the current year assessed
the Holyoke Street Railway Company an excise tax of  —
$ in accordance with Section  Chapter  of the
Revised Laws, and executed and delivered warrant to Thomas
F. McCabe to eolleet the same in accordance with the above
chapter, rate of levy being  per mile for  
miles or per cent on .
STATISTICS.
Number of property polls, )» 
* ‘“ single polls,  eS St:Ssid 
* ‘* supplementary polls,.  ...  
. ‘* property owners,. 
.s ‘“ horses,   ‘* cows, Ce  
‘s “neat cattle, ... ee,  
.* ‘* sheep, Be  
* *“ swine, Ce,  
“é ‘* fowl, Be  
rf ‘* dwellings, oeee  
* ** aeres,  ee 
, PROPORTION OF TAX RATE.
State,  ... .SO$  per thousand
County, Be  per thousand
City, eh per thousand
Total rate,. $  per thousand
Respectfully submitted by the Board of Assessors,
| JOSEPH ST. MARTIN, 
Chairman.

. \
Signized by Google

THIRTY FOURTH
ANNUAL REPORT |
OF THE
WATER BOARD
OF THE
City of Holyoke
FOR THE YEAR ENDING DEC.  ,
 
ESD)
HOLyokeE, Mass.
M. J. DoyLE PRINTING Co.
 .

OFFICERS FOR.  .
WATER COMMISSIONERS. |
HUGH McLEAN, Chairman and Treasurer,
ARTHUR M. FRENCH,
MICHAEL J. DOYLE, Secretary.
WATER REGISTRAR.
ALBERT E. PICKUP.
CLERK. |
MISS ALICE  S. CORNER.
SUPERINTENDENT.
JOIN D. HARDY.
ENGINEER.
JAMES L. TIGITE.
, INSPECTORS.
JAMES F. CLEARY, THOMAS E. SUTLLIVAN.
OO  ——

REPORI OF THE
Yo the Honorable, the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke:
The board of Water Commissioners respectfully present
the following as their report for the year ending December  ,
 :
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
RECEIPTS.
Balance from ... 
Water rents, Co   
Interest on meters,  ... 
Service pipe...  ees  
Journal,  ... 
Interest on bank deposits, ...  
Sundries, Ce  
$ 
| EXPENDITURES.

Main pipe extension and supplies,  
Service pipe extension and supplies...  
Main pipe repairs, 
Service pipe repairs,. +s  
Hydrants, ...    

Reservoirs:
Ashley and Wright Ponds and Whiting Street,  
High Service...» ees  
Fomer, Co  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Rock cut canal and gatehouse,  
Supervision and inspection,  
Meters,    
Barn, Ce  
Shop, Co  
Office, ...ee  
, Engineering, Be  
Alice E. Connery (land), re  
Commissioners of Sinking Fund, City of Holyoke, |
taxes,   
Interest on bonds,   
For allother purposes, ...  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank,. 
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash on hand, ...  
—————-  
$ 
| Ho.LyoKE, Mass., January .
I hereby certify that have examined the cash book of the
Boar  of Water Commissioners for the year ending December
  and found it correctly added and the vouchers for
payments properly approved. The cash balance, ,
has been duly verified.
D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.
In our last report mention was made of the intention of
the Commissioners to open up channel through the Rock Cut
and thus bring the intake of the Ashley -Pond system some
  feet nearer the city. The building of this canal and
putting the same into operation has been the principal new
work accomplished during the past year. There was consi jerable uncertainty as to the conditions that would be met with
In the construction of this canal, as the Rock Cut is, as the

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
name implies, cut made largely through rock or ledge. No
very serious obstacles were met with, however, and the work
was completed without any injury to the men employed on it. |

The total length of the canal is feet, extreme depth
  feet, average depth feet, and it is feet wide.

The canal walls are built of trap rock, with the face side
laid in cement.

The gatehouse, the superstructure of which is yet to be

built, is located at the lower or easterly end of the canal, the
water being Jelivered from it directly into the mains leading
to the city. The original  -inch main laid through the cut
will be used for the high service system, which will supply
the Elmwood and Highlands sections.
  The benefit from this canal is twofold; an increase in the
pressure of about six pounds for the city proper, and the
aerating of the water after it leaves the storage basin and
before it enters the city mains. |

The piping system has been so arranged as to provide for
another pipe line from the Ashley Pond supply, should one be
needed later on.

Although the water has been held back, and ‘only enough
let in to keep the canal about half full, the pressure in the city
shows an increase of three pounds.

A little trouble was experienced in some sections of the
eity while some of the connections were being made, due to air
getting into the pipes, the water at the Wright Pond having
to be kept low so as not to interfere with the work on the canal.

The amount expended on the canal and gatehouse the past
year was .

A part of the work on the canal walls and gatehouse was
let by contract to Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, owing to the
income of the department for the last quarter not being available until the last of November, which would mean stopping
of the work, and thereby prevent the canal from being put
into operation this year. .

Water was let into the canal for the first time on November
 .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

One of the principal achievements of the year has been
the eutting off of great part of the waste of water, as is shown
by the reduction in the per eapita consumption. from  
vallons day to galions, daily saving of over  
gallons. |

This is very great reduction, and is eause for considerable satisfaction on the part of the Commissioners, and could
not have been accomplished without the most. persistent effort
on the part of the Board and employes of the department.

During the early part of the year meters were installed in
the saloons, and in the hotels not already metered, and speetmen bills were sent out for three successive months previous
to July first, showing the quantity of water used during the
previous month and the eost of same at the rates then in
foree and also at the rates to take effeet July  Commencing
with the first of July, the water was charged to them at
metered rates.

The rates charged for metered water were reduced, commencing July  the first or top rate of cents per  
vallons for the first pO,  eallous, was abolished, leaving two
rates, namely, cents per gallons for the first  
vallons used per month, and cents per gallons for the
quantity used per month in excess of gallons. From
these prices the same discount was allowed for prompt payment as was allowed before the top rate was abolished, namely
  per cent.

During the spring of the year the brooks supplying the
Ashley Pond system were thoroughly cleaned out. This was a
very necessary work as they were quite badly filled up, and
resulted in bringing into the ponds more water, some of which
would otherwise have been diverted.

It was noted in the spring and stummer months that the
water coming into the Whiting Street reservoir from the brook
at the northeasterly side, after heavy rain, was not what it
had been in previous years, and on investigating the eause of
this lessened flow, it was found that the reservoir belonging to
the Mount Tom Railroad Company, and which supphes water

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
to Mountain Park, had been raised, and the overflow put at
the northerly side, so that the surplus water flowed toward
Smith’s Ferry instead of into the brook mentioned; also that
the walls of portion of this brook were broken and had fallen
into it in such manner as to divert large portion of the
water whieh found its way into the brook. Steps were at once
taken to repair the damage, and the Board had the walls of
the brook rebuilt, and letter was sent to President Loomis
of the Mount Tom Railroad Company and Holyoke Street
Railway Company, requesting permission to make such changes
in their reservoir as would eause the surplus water to flow into
this brook, as it formerly had done. While no formal reply
has yet been received from President Loomis, the Board has
been given to understand that the companies will consent to
the changes being made.
The road at High Service reservoir was extended along the
westerly side, making, with that already built, very pretty
drive around three sides of the reservoir.
The Board consummated the purchase of the Connery —
farm in Westhampton, on the Manhan watershed, by the payment of the purchase price, in June.
The water for the state troops mobilized on Hampton
Plains in July, was supplied from the Fomer main. :
The pipe for the City Farm extension was bought, but it :
was decided not to lay it this vear, the funds of the department,
being employed in prosecuting the work on the Rock Cut canal,
which was considered of greater importance by the Board.
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
Cost reported December  ... —..: 
. Inerease during the year: |
Main Pipe extensions, ... |
| Hydrants,  ... we |
High Service reservoir...  ...  
Rock Cut canal and gatchouse,  et, !

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Meters,.  ws  

Alice E. Connery, land, ...  
$ 

Depreciation, .  
$ 

The cast-iron mains were extended feet. For location, size and length of extensions see Table A.

The length of cast-iron mains is miles, and of
temporary wrought iron, miles. For location, size and
length of mains see Tables and C.

Seventeen gates were set in new locations. The total number to date is  For location and size see Tables and E.

Four hydrants were set in new locations, and four were
replaced. The total number of public fire hydrants is  .
For location, etc., see Tables and G. Following Table isa
summary of fire service in the various mills in the city, which
is additional to the above.

Seventy meters were set in new locations, and ten discontinued, making the total now in use  For make, size
and location see Table H.

Seventy-five service pipe connections were added during

. the year and eighteen discontinued, making the total number
in use to date  .

Fourteen leaks in service pipes and nine in main pipes
have been repaired. *

The average depth of water in the gatehouse at Wright
Pond for the year was ten feet, six inches.

SINKING FUND.
(Bonds due  .)
Amount reported December $ 

Inerease during the year:

Interest on bank deposit, wee  
| 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
INVESTMENT.
Cash in Holyoke National Bank, wee 
Examined and approved,
FREDERICK S. FULLER,
Public Accountant.
December .
SINKING FUND.
(Bonds due  .)
Amount reported December   
Increase during the year:
Interest on bank deposit, 
Interest on loans on real estate,  
Income from Kennedy property,  
Interest on bonds, 
Less premium, . 
$ 
INVESTMENTS. |
Loans on real estate. . 
Twenty-three City of Holyoke Gas and Electric
Light Bonds, Coeee  
Cash in IIome National Bank,  
$ 
Examined and approved,
FREDERICK  S. FULLER,
Public Accountant.
December .

  REPORT OF WATER BUARD
SINKING FUND.
(Bonds due  .)
Amount reported December $ 
Increase during the year:
Interest on bank deposit, .. 
Interest on bonds,
Less premium,   :
$ 
INVESTMENTS.
Eleven City of Holyoke Gas and Electrie Light
Bonds,
Cash in City National Bank, . 
, 
Examined and approved,
FREDERICK  FULLER,
Public Accountant.
December .
All of which is respectfully submitted,
HUGH McLEAN,
A: M. FRENCH,
M. J. DOYLE.
Water Commissioners.
Helvoke, December .

Discussion of Water Rates.
(Taken from the New England Water Works Journal).

The New England Water Works Association, who held
their convention here last year, and of which the Holyoke
Board are members, at their November,  meeting, took up
the discussion of meter rates, which our city is very much
Interested in, and the following discussion will be of interest to
the many water takers and should be read earefully to show the
injustice of selling water at different rates, which is in line
with the present system of railroad rates in which the public —
are demanding reforms, and which the water board of Holyoke
have corrected and are endeavoring to give everybody square
deal. |

METER RATES.
[Topical Discussion, November .]

PRESIDENT Brooks: The report of the Committee on
Meter Rates is now in order.

Mr. Cates M. SavitLe:* If am the only member of the
eommittee present, Mr. President, all that ean report is that
your committee  working on the subject, and we hope before
long to be able to present something for your consideration.

THE PRESIDENT: Has Mr. Merrill anything to say?

Mr. Frank E. MeErRILu:* will say, Mr. President, that
my associate on the committee, Mr. Saville, has covered the
ground thoroughly in his report. (Lauehter.) would suggest, however, that instead of the report of the committee, you
ask for suggestions from members of the Association, and am
sure that anything in that line will be thankfully received by
the committee.
® Division Engineer, Metropolitan Water Works, Boston, Mass.

t Water Commissioner, Somerville, Mass.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

THE PRESIDENT: Following the suggestion of Mr. Merrill,
I would say that if there is anyone present who has any idea
to express in regard to what should be embodied in the report
of the Committee on Meter Rates, we should be glad to hear

 from him.

Mr. HucH McLean:‘* This matter of standard metered
price to all users of water is something that have given considerable thought to, and hoped that there would be some
report made today that would give me some light on the
subject. |

My idea is that all metered water should be charged to all

 parties at the same price; that all consumers of water should
be charged so much per thousand gallons, whether they use a
million gallons or thousand gallons. In our city of Holyoke,
if the monthly consumption is gallons or less, the rate
per gallons is cents net; for monthly consumption
in excess of gallons, and not exding gallons,
the rate is cents net; and if the amount used per month is in
excess of gallons, the rate per gallons is cents
net. Now, contend that this is wrong. Other members of the
Association may not agree with me, but following up the argument. presented by Mr. Tighe in his paper at the Holyoke
convention on assessing values of municipal ownership in
water departments,  seems to me that the equalization of
meter rates is problem worthy of the attention of this organization.

I contend it is the duty of the municipality to sell water
to all its citizens at the same price, and that the sooner a
uniform charge per gallons is adopted by water department, the better and the more satisfactory it will be to all the
citizens. |

| might eite to you the fact that the present system eneourages concentration of capital to the disadvantage of the
individual. LT nuight cite to vou the fact that large number of
men may get together and call themselves company, and by
consuming large amount of water, get it at the low rate.
tt Member Water Board, Holyoke, Mass.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
I can cite as fact that this thing is being done in some cities
in New England, and the only way to obviate it, and to make
the cost of water the same to all, is to have uniform rate of
charge to every citizen. It may not be possible to have the
same rate im all cities, but in every city there should be a
uniform rate to all consumers. For instance, take the Ameriean Writing Paper Company in Holvoke, since the amalgamation of the paper interests ealled ‘‘the combine’’; previous
to that amalgamation the water for each mill was metered and
each paid for its own water. Take the American Thread
Company; previous to the amalgamation of all the thread
interests, each null paid for its own water. Now, by using a
vreat quantity of water, they get it at the low rate of cents
per gallons.

Now, What is to prevent sunilar amalgamations of interests
in other eases? For instanee, all the users of water for
elevators in city may get together and call themselves the
American. Elevator Company, and own all the elevators and
have the water all charged to the American Elevator Company,
thereby robbing the department to the detriment of the small
user of water. You are expending annually large sims of
money in building up water works, and you are giving the
advantage to the large users of water. That evil, it seems to
me, should be corrected by the adoption of uniform system
of charges for water to all consumers, say cents per  
gallons, or Whatever is actually necessary to bring the receipts
up to the present revenue,—even if the rates have to be
overhauled, which may be necessary in order to treat all .
citizens alike. All eitizens are equal owners in the water
department. refer now to water departments under muncipal ownership, and this may not apply to private ownership ;
and being equal shareholders in the plant, all are entitled to
the same treatment. The United States government does not.
sell stamps to one man fora less price than it does to another.
A man who buys  worth or  worth of stamps
pays at the same rate as the man who buys only one stamp:
and the same treatment ought to be aceorded to all eitizens who
use the publie water supply.

- REPORT OF WATER BOARD

And for further proof of my statement, will cite io you
the fact that the municipal hghting department of Tlolyvoke,
which has lately aequired plant from private ownership,
charged for lighting on basis of raies sinilar to those that
are now charged for water, which think is entirely wrong. If
a man used  worth of electricity Im month, he got a
discount of per cent; if he used  worth, he got per
eent off; if  worth, per cent, and for  worth, per
eent off. These discounts eontend were entirely wrong; and
public opinion was aroused, and sounded such protest
against this diseount system, which was to the benefit of the
large consumer as against the interests of the small consumer,
that this month the manaver has announced that on and after
December  instead of charging cents per watt-hours,
the rate will be cents to all consumers of electricity, less a
discount of two cents, making flat rate of cents per  
watt-hours. And contend that the same principle should
be endorsed by the New England Water Works Association
and recommended to be apphed to water. The present system
encourages the fostering of trusts, because by combining interests they get their water much cheaper than they eould) individually, to the disadvantave of the small user.

I atiended this meeting with the expectation of hearing
the report of the Commiutiee on Meter Rates and to hear what
members might sav upon the subject. This is what have to
offer, and it is my imtention to have adopted by our water
board, if it is possible, the ideas whieh have expressed.

Mr. Desmonp FirzGeEraup:* For one, Mr. President, I
wish to say that IT have been anuch deliehted to hear such
sentiments as Mr. MelLean has expressed. and to hear them so
well put.

Mr. Morris R. Suerrerp:* May Task Mr. McLean if he
proposes to couple with his uniform rates for metered water a
minimum rate for service ?

Mix. MeLean: Our rate for metered water is, as stated,
* Consulting Engineer, Brookline, Mass
i kngineer and Supertntendent Water Departinent, Newark, N. J.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
where the monthly consumption is gallons or less,  
cents per gallons. Now you can see the injustice which
results to the small consumer. The large consumer gets all his
water at the  -cent rate, and we are building reservoirs, you
might say, for hin, while the smaller consumers pay cents
per thousand gallons. For the first gallons the charge
is cents, for the next it is  and for over that.  
cents.

Mar. SreRRERD: Must the consumer pay certain minimum amount in order to get the water at all?

Mr. McLean: Yes.

Mr. SHERRERD: ITlow much is that year?

Mr. McLEaAN: If he uses gallons month or less,
the rate is cents.

Mr. SUERRERD: What is the least possible charge that a
family could get through on? Is it  or  year, or something of that kind?

| Mr. McLean: All faueet charges are at stipulated rate,
and families pay stipulated price,  family per year,
net,

Mr. SUERRERD: Without meters?

Mr. MceLeEAN: Without meters: the idea is to encourage
the use of meters and make the price as nearly equal to all as
possible, by having standard rate for all water, whether a
man uses one thousand gallons or aaumilion eallons.

Mr. IHfonpen: Does the eity furnish the meter, or the
consimer ?

Mr. McLEsN: The city.

Mr. Suekrerd: It seems to me that there are two elements
which enter into the cost of water; one is the water itself, and |
the other is the cost of the plant to distribute the water. have
rone Into the question pretty thoroughly, and although the
speaker who preceded me may perhaps be meht theoretically,
yet it seems to me there must be fixed amount prid by each
consumer before he begins to pay for the water. On the
Newark, N. J. plant that amount figures  on each tap. This
represents the imfterest charge on the cost of the distribution

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

system: that is, it costs the city  tap before single gallon
of water is delivered to the consumers. If you have  -foot
let, and you take water for vour house by meter, you may get
through, at our rate, for from  to  per year. Your
neivhbor may have  -foot lot on which he has factory, and
he uses, we will say,  worth of water. Now it practieally
costs the city the sane amount of interest on the plant. to bring
the water of the small consumer, who only pays  to the city,
that it does to bring it to the large consumer, beeause the mains
have got to be large enough for fire protection in any event,
whether that consumer is there or not. And it seems to me
that this situation ought to be taken into consideration when
the question of fixing rates Comes up.

Then to prevent meter consumers combining to get larger
discount, it would seem to me that water departinent, particwarly mumeipal department, could control this by making
the sliding scale apply to each meter or to each building, and
thus prevent any combination of interests, seattered all over
the city, from vetting the benefit of the large reduction in
price. know that with us it would be pretty serious thing
if we were to raise the rate to our large consumers. avree
that it is mice to talk about making the rate as low to the siall
consumers as to the large ones, but if we should not give a
reasonable discount, so as to bring the price of the water down,
our larger consinuers would be able to get an adequate supply
of water for their cooling purposes, and satisfaetory for all but
boiler use, by taking at from driven wells. If we should
attempt to make uniform rate, know that we would lose a
large portion of factory constmption, and think the same
thing nueht be true in other localities.

Mr. McLean: To would say that for all serviees that we
put we charge the consumer as far as the curbing on the
sidewalk. Tf aan owns four hundred tenements, he  is
charged  year for every faucet, every tap in every tenement, While the readings of meters belonging to the large eorporations ave added together, thus bringing the price to the
lowest rate.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Mr. Suerrerp: Put him on meter.

Mr. McLeEAN: Elis tenements are distributed all over the
city, and he pays  year for each tenement; while the
consolidated interests, which meter their water, as have
before cited, get the benefit of the low rate. All their meters
are read as one meter. It is impossible to read every meter on
its own basis, because that would put the rates up, unless the
rates were changed. The only fair and just way, under municipal ownership of the plant, to all the citizens, who are equal
owners in the plant, is to make flat rate as low as possible;
just as the United States government makes its rate on postage
stamps, or its duties, or anything else, the same rate to each
and every individual. Consequently, contend that it is the
duty of all municipalities to charge flat rate of so much per
  gallons.

Mr. RosBert J. THomas:* think, Mr. President, that it
is the duty of municipality to furnish water to its citizens at
the lowest possible rate——to furnish first-class quality of
water and plenty of it, at the lowest possible rate. Now, it
seems to me that if by reducing the price of water the munieipality can increase the number of takers, and thereby increase the revenue, it will be able to furnish to all the citizens
water at lower price than would be possible otherwise. As
Mr. Sherrerd has well said, great many large water takers
would put in pumps, drive wells, or take water from other
sourees, and thereby deprive the city of large revenue, if
they did not receive an inducement in the way of reduced rates
for large consumption. .

The highest rate in Lowell is cents per cubic feet
for the first cubic feet in quarter; for the second
 the charge is cents: for the third  cents,
and so on, the lowest rate being cents. But we do not give
water takers the benefit of that sliding scale, except on single
meter. If they have two meters or more, they are charged
separately for each meter.

One of the benefits to be derived from shding scale, and
® Superintendent of Water Works, Lowell, Mass.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

I presume it was one of the motives for establishing it, is that
instead of having three or four services for one piece of property, thereby increasing the cost of maintenance to the water
department, they get along with only one pipe and one meter,
decreasing the number of services and the number of meters
and consequently decreasing the cost of maintenance. can’t
see the necessity, in Holyoke or in any other place, of taking
all the meters of one concern, considering them as one account,
and giving them the benefit of the sliding scale. That is, it
seems to me unnecessary, and is not the practice throughout
New England. It certainly is not the practice in Lowell, and
I believe we follow the general practice pretty closely.

Another reason for the adoption of sliding scale is that
the more revenue you can get from your plant the easier it will
be to reduce your rates to all water takers. Of course, the
question has two sides to it, and it will bear discussion and
looking into. feel that it has not been discussed as much as
it ought to be by the Association, and that it is very opportune
to bring it up today. Mr. MeLean has done good service in

ealling it to the attention of the Association, and it ought to
be further discussed, for to my mind it is not by any means a
settled proposition that it is the duty of municipality to
furnish all its eitizens with water at the same price, regardless
of quantity used. .

Mr. CoGcGesnaLL: Do you have minimum rate for
meters, Mr. Thomas ?

Mr. Tromas: We have minimum rate of .

Mr. FirzGeratp: It has often struck me, Mr. President,
that this idea which Mr. McLean has advanced runs through
all our systems of business. If go to railroad station and
wish to go to Newton, and ean afford it, buy package of
tickets, so that the cost of my trip is very much reduced ;
whereas poor woman, who is only going out there once,
perhaps, has to pay nearly twice as much for her trip as do.
It seems to me that in the case of public carrier that is all
wrong. In this particular case it costs the railroad just as

REPORT OF WATER BUARD  
much to carry me as it does to carry her, and think we should
pay the same.

This is subject which have thought of good deal—
in fact believe am on committee which has been appointed

- in an adjoining municipality to consider this very subject—
and believe. as my friend Mr. Thomas says, that it is a
question which has two sides; and think it will be an excellent thing for the Association to take it up and make business
of diseussing it. am sure that the varied experiences and
opinions of our members would make the discussion exdingly interesting.

Mr. McLEAN: While have good deal of respect for
the views which other members have expressed, and think
there is good deal of justice in their contention, am still
of the opinion that the only fair way is to have an equal rate
for all. Where municipal ownership has been made success,
equal rates have been charged to all for the product of the
municipality, whether gas or light or water or anything else.
In New Zealand the railroads are under public ownership, and
it doesn’t make any odds whether man ships tons of
freight or pounds, his shipment goes at the same rate; and
so, under municipal ownership, water should be supplied at
the same rate to all citizens. It is not the same as with private
ownership. private company can do what it wants to, but |
under municipal ownership every individual is part owner
of the plant, and he should have equal rights Realizing that,
the Holyoke lighting department, which is the only municipal
department of its kind in the state on large seale, will supply
the citizens at uniform rate in the future; whereas previous
to the adoption of the new system many were getting per
eent off, while the small consumer was getting only per cent
off. There is no justice in operating municipal department
for the benefit of the large consumer, aS we are now operating
the municipal water department, building reservoirs and borrowing and expending large sums of money in laying pipes
to supply his needs, and giving him water at the very lowest
rates possible, three times lower than others. contend it is

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

the duty of the municipality to supply all of its citizens with
water at one price, and if the large consumers refuse to take
it, well and good. But don’t believe they will. know of:
no large user of hght or power from the electric department
who has stopped taking it since the change of discounts, and
so with the water; believe with flat even rate to all we will
still be able to furnish water to all cheaper than they can
procure it for themselves, and of better quality.

Mr. Ropert Spurr WeEston:* JT should lke to ask Mr.
McLean if the present minimum meter rate at Iolyoke is less
than the cost of furnishing water?

Mr. McLean: cannot answer that correctly at present:
we are now installing four large meters,—two Venturi and two
Premier,—which will show our hourly and daily total consumption; then we can come very near to knowing exactly
what we are doing. |

Mr. CALEB M. SAVILLE: May ask Mr. McLean if he

: advocates universal meter system ?

Mr. McLEAN: do; yes, sir.

Mr. SavinLE: On everything ?

Mr. McLean: Ido. think it is only question of time
and enlightening the citizens as to the advisability of using
meters. It is hard task to do it, but the time is coming when
they will see it. We all know from experience with faucets

- and fixed charges that the leakage is enormous. Sometimes a
 -inch opening may run half the year without our knowing
it, and leaks are occurring al] the time. If all services were
metered it would be better, and it would not take as much
water to supply the municipality.

Mr. Merriui: do not know whether Mr. MeLean
attended the meeting, or read the preliminary report of this
committee which was presented in the spring, but if so he will
reeall, undoubtedly, that the statement was made at that time
that the eity of Somerville had looked at the matter in much
the same light that he does, and so far as it was able had placed
the metered water charges on uniform basis, abandoning
* Sanitary Expert, Boston, Mass.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
the sliding scale which had formerly existed, of cents for
the first cubic feet used in quarter, cents for the
second  and cents for the next  and cents
for anything over million, and substituting therefor the
uniform rate of cents for eubie feet.

I will not say that that was made to apply to every consumer, because we have, think, three out of our ratepayers who use water in so large quantities that it was deemed
inadvisable to increase their old minimum  -cent rate to the
otherwise uniform rate of cents. Conditions must decide
whether the uniform rate can be made to apply to all cases.
One of the companies to which have referred has local
water plant of its own now, and think there is no doubt that
if such an increase in its water charges as would result from
advancing its minimum  -cent rate to a‘uniform  -cent rate
had been made, we should have lost considerable portion of
its patronage. But with these exceptions we are on the uniform basis of cents per feet or cents per gallons; and am inclined to agree with Mr. McLean that, where
circumstances will permit, that is the proper way to charge
for water.

Mr. CHARLES W. SHERMAN :* One of the companies with
which am now connected has found itself in situation very
similar to that described by Mr. Merrill. In the city in which
it Operates is very large plant belonging to one of the socalled trusts, which employs large percentage of the men of

the place. Formerly, with the water supply under different
management and partially under the control of the municipality, that concern was allowed to have water free. new
management having taken hold of the water plant, an attempt
was made to put the rate up to that paid by other consumers :
I do not pretend to say it is flat rate, however theoretically
proper such rate would be, but to what any one else would
pay for the same quantity of water. It was found to be
absolutely impossible to do that, for if-it were done the plant
would be closed and the business moved out of town. |
® Assistant Manager Water Companies, Boston, Mass.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD ,

Now, in my opinion, the theoretically proper way to get
over that circumstance would be by receiving from some source
the same sum of money that another consumer would have paid
for that quantity of water; and the balance in excess of what
the plant could afford to pay in that location should be made
up by general taxation on the municipality, and not by increas-—
ing the water rates to other consumers; that is, by making the
whole municipality and not the water-takers stand the difference. That was case where it would have been suicide for
the water company to establish rate such as would force the
manufacturing plant out of town, since it would have practically killed the municipality and the result was that rate
was made substantially covering the cost of the water, possibly
a fraction of cent less than the cost to the ecompany—and of
course the balance has to be obtained out of the other water
consumers. It is not right, but do not see how we can do
any better.

Mr. SHERRERD: May go step further, Mr. President,
with what said on the subject when was speaking of the
lots? forgot to mention that there is another factor which
should be taken into account, and that is the vacant lot in front
of which pipe is laid. That lot gets the benefit, as all the
real estate in the city gets the benefit, from the large pipes
for fire protection. But know that in some cities—and one I
know positively about; that  s, Troy, N. Y..—they charge in
the tax levy, and it goes in the tax bill on the real estate, 
on  -foot lot for every lot in front of which the water pipes
are laid. That is really equivalent to taking care of this item
of which spoke of before; and perhaps it is, from a
theoretical standpoint, fairer way to distribute the cost of
the distribution system upon the real estate. Of course this
always raises an objection on the part of large owners of vacant
land, but know that in the development of such tracts of land
these same owners are anxious to have the water department,
or the water company, lay water pipes through the streets on
Which the lots abut, beeause the lots are thereby increased in :
value and brought into the market. And if that is true, if the

|

“REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

pipes of the water department increase the value of the real
estate, it seems to me that the real estate ought to pay portion
of the fixed charge, and that would leave the way open for the  |
establishment of some uniforin rate for the water.

Mr. McLEAN: If the Association is ready at this time, I
would make motion that it is the sense of this meeting that
we adopt some kind of system such as has been suggested.

THE PRESIDENT: think, Mr. McLean, that, pending the
report of the committee, it would hardly be advisable at this
time to take any action. The committee has the matter under
consideration and has merely reported progress, merely outlining some of the points that have come up in the minds of
the committee as to the many difficulties there are in the way
of fixing uniform meter rate. :

Mr. McLean: Each city, of course, has its own problems
in that respect, but think the nearer to uniform system the
Association could adopt, the better it would be. The way we in
Holyoke get over the difficulty that my friend on the left (Mr.
Sherrerd) suggests is by taxing the fire department so much
for every hydrant that it has. It pays us, believe,  year
for each hydrant. suppose we all have our different ways of
doing these things, but the more uniformity there could be
about it, it seems to me, the better it would be.

At the New England Water Works annual convention,
held in New York city last September, the Committee on Meter
Rates reported and the convention discussed the report but
could not agree to vote and was referred back to the committee. Many favored the flat rate and below are the sentiments expressed by Chairman Hugh McLean. As the report
was very lengthy one covering over twenty pages, we report
only the part taken in the discussion by our chairman, which
bears out the sentiments expressed at the Boston meeting.

Mr. Hucu McLEAN:* suppose this committee's object
was to report on uniform rate for selling water. Now, as I
understand it, what we want to get over are the objections to

|

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

putting in meters by devising some rate which will be as equal
and equitable as possible; for instance, we put meter in for
a consumer, and the rate, we will say, is sliding rate of  
cents thousand for the first gallons, cents for the
next gallons, and for all over that it is cents per
  gallons. We want to make it as easy as possible to get
the meters in. Some user would say, ‘‘Why must pay  o
cents for all my water?’’ And another would say, ‘‘ Why
should pay cents for mine?’’

The idea advanced at our meeting in Boston was to
abolish these different rates, and to have one flat rate for all
consumers, and in that way get. rid of the objection to putting
meters in, and make the matter very simple. The small consumers say, ‘‘ We are citizens, we are equal shareholders in the
water department with the large consumers of water, and we
are entitled to have the water at as low rate as the largest
consumers in fact, we ought to have the preference because we
use it to drink, and to keep clean, and they use it for power
and manufacturing purposes.’’ When you start to put meters
in, that objection faces you right away. So argued in favor
of abolishing the different rates and making one flat rate,
which shall be as low as possible and keep the revenue up to
what it was before.

Carrying out that idea, our water department has abolished the  -eent rate, and we have now only two rates—the
 -cent and  -cent. By abolishing the  -cent rate we lessened
our revenue about two thousand dollars, but we added meters
so that we increased our revenue about two thousand five
hundred dollars and decreased our consumption from to
  gallons per eapita—a saving of two million gallons day.
Now we propose to continue, and on the first of January we
may abolish the  -cent rate and have only one flat rate, and
we expect the people will then allow us to put meters in,
beeause we can say in all justice, ‘This watér belongs to the
community, to all the citizens equally, and we propose to see
that it is sold at the same price to all.’’ As it  now, the man
who is using small quantity pays twice as much for it as the

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
man who Is using large quantity; and how can you stop that
injustice, the giving of that benefit to the large consumer over
the small consumer, unless you have one flat low rate?

Many business interests today are consolidating, and as a
result they are getting water at the cheap rate. For imstance,
a mill which used gallons of water every month paid
  cents per gallons for it. But mills combine under
one name and eall themselves the American Paper Company, or
whatever name they choose, and the mills have their water
bills limped together, and they get all their water above the
first gallons at the  -cent. rate. Now how are you
going to stop consolidation like that from robbing your
department, because the various concerns beeome one indi- |
vidual after they have consolidated, and they will buy the
Water as one and not as many?

The only fair, equitable way for municipal department
is to sell water to all the citizens at the one flat rate, which
shall be as low as possible and vet furnish the revenne necessary to operate the department.

Now so far as the recommendation to assess property is
concerned, [think that would be step in the wrong direction.
It would be in the line of double taxation. You might just as
well areue that vou should tax property for putting in gas
pipes or electric light wires or street railways. All those
thines increase the value of the adjoming property, and the
owner of the property really has to pay for the improvement
in value by increased taxes.

I think the simplest way is to charge so much annually
for every hydrant for fire protection. That guarantees vou a
stated amount for each hydrant set by the department. As far
as meters are concerned, the preferable way in my opinion is
to set up the meter for the consumer and charge hin certain
per cent on the cost of the meter and for the labor ino maintaining it, keeping it in good condition and reading it. If a
meter costs charge him say per eent on the investment,
and that will be coming back annually the form of interest
on the money you spend for meters. There should be only one

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
price charved for water, Just the same as there is only one
price for any commodity that the government sells. Gas is sold
at so much thousand feet, the same to everybody electricity
so much kilowatt; and water should be sold in the same way.
That  justice, and all citizens are entitled to it.
OFFICE OF
HoLyoKkE Business MEN’s ASSOCIATION,
HotyokkE, MAss.
January .
HucuH McLEAN, Chairman,
BoARD OF WATER COMMISSIONERS,
HloLYOKE, MAss.

Dear Sir:—This Association wishes to again call the attention of your Honorable Board to the inequality of the rates
charged for metered water. We think your Board took step
in the right direction in abolishing the highest rate, but we
think you ought to go little further and make the rate the
same to all consumers. There is no doubt the best interest of
the City will be served by selling water at the lowest possible
price to manufacturers, and others, and we would suggest that
you take the averaze price paid by your largest consumer for
two or three years and make that the price to all. private
corporation makes no difference in the per cent of dividend
paid, no matter whether you own ten or ten thousand shares
and there is no good reason why public corporation should.

Yours truly,
THOMAS STANSFIELD, Sec’y.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE SHOWING WEEKLY CONSUMPTION, AND AVERAGE DAILY
CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA FOR EACH WEEK IN  .
Tota) weekly consumption, gallons, Average daily consumption
as recorded by large meters. per capita.
Week ending Jan. 
‘Jan. 
. Jan. 
“ “Jan. 
. Feb. 
i ‘“ Feb. 
os Feb. 
“ Feb. 
“* ‘Mar. ,C 
‘ “Mar. 
“ “Mar.  
- “Mar. 
“ “April  “April  “April 
“ “April 
" “April 
' May 
' “May  ,
" “May 
: “May 
: “June  ,
“ “June 
. June  
. “June 
" “July 
: July 
. “July 
July  
‘ “July 
“ “Ane 
: Aue. 
‘ Ane 
: Ane. 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
‘ ‘* Sept. 
‘* ‘s Sept.  
‘* ‘* Sept.  |
* ‘f Sept.  ,
“fof Sept. 
* Oct. 
aE ‘Oct. 
** ‘* Oet. 
‘* ‘S  Oet. 
“ Nov. 
‘ ‘* Nov. 
. ‘s Nov. 
. ‘f Nov.  d, )
“ ‘Dee.  !
‘* ‘* Dee.  |
“* “Dee. 
- ‘f Dee. 
** ‘Dee.  |
Total, gallons. .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE SHOWING RATE OF CONSUMPTION IN GALLONS PER DAY PER
CAPITA FOR WEEK ENDING NOVEMBER .
Hour. Sat. Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thur. Fri.
  to la.m.,,  ‘*    
a ‘f  —-:  Tf   “* —)  **  ‘‘  to LIp.m.  ‘* ‘*  SOd sd   
a    s*d  ]
  **  ‘*  )
  ‘*  
Average, QQ  
(Facsimile of table prepared for the Commissioners each
week. )

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Record of water consumption in City of Holyoke as measured
by large meters for average day in week ending p. in,
November .
Estimated number of water takers supplied,  .
. Hours. Gallons per capita per day.
  to p. m.,  la.m.,,  ‘S   ()
  ,
  ** ‘* m. ** lp. m.  
a 
sf  **  
Averave for hours,  
Averave p. m.-) a.m.  
Average a. m.-IL p.m.  
Rate of night flow, p.m., to a. m.,  per cent.
Per cent of rate of day flow, a. m.-  p.m.
TEMPERATURE.
Maximiun,  Minimum,  Mean,  .
Rainfall for week, inches.
JAS. L. TIGHE, Engineer.
(Facsimile of record prepared for the Commissioners each
week. )

- REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE A.
STATEMENT OF LOCATION, SIZE AND LENGTH OF EXTENSIONS
MADE IN  .
am aA)  A) a
 S) Lo)  S) oO  *) .o) ie)
LOCATION. a
“ye; |;  es; ze] &
Almshouse road.
(Westfield lower |
road), from end of!
  inch pipe laid in
 south 
Bh street from
Hampden street to
Prospect street |
East Dwight street,
from Bridge ey |
east |
Elinwood avenue,! |
from Northampton
Street, west  
Longwood avenue,
from end of inch
pipe laid in  go ,
west,  
Magnolia street, from
Sargeant street,
north  
Miller court, from
West street east
(galvanized pipe)  ?
Rock Cut Gatehouse
east 
Rock Cut Gatehouse :
east, with inch. |
Y and inch to  |
inch reducer,  
Rock Cut Gatehouse |
from inch Y, |
east, from blow-off,  
Summer street, from| |
end of pipe laid in |
 south,  |
W est Glen street from |
Northampton street |
west |
|
Total, feet,  |
’ mm   
Do. temp’r’y main,  |
| |
rv  OT

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE B.
LOCATION AND SIZE OF CAST-IRON PIPE NOW LAID.
  |)/ )ei's
LOCATION. r-   |
oO ds 
Adams street |
Allyn street  /| |
Appleton street |
Arlington street |
Avon place |
Almshouse |
Amherst street |
Arthur street |
Ashley Pond  
Berkshire street |
Bristol place |
Blow-off |
Bigelow street |
Bridge street |
Bowers street  |
Beacon street  |
Brown avenue |
Kond street  |
Bh street |
  feet of  -inch |
Brooks avenue |
Brook street |
Clark street |
Cottage avenue |
Commercial street |
Canal street 
Cabot street |
Chapin street |
Clinton avenue  |
Congress street |
Chestnut street |
Center street |
Carlton street.  |
Canby street  |
Conduit, Bray brook  
Charles street !
Corser street  
Columbus avenue |
Coit street  
Cook street |
Davis Street |
Deep Cut  
Deep cut to High |
and Appleton sts.  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
pp re |
LOCATION fol   
Deep cut to Merrick’s
farmhouse  
Deep cut to Brown
avenue  
Dexter street  
Division street  
Dwight street 
Dwight street alley  
East street 
Elm street  
Elmwood avenne  
Essex street  
Ely street 
Ely court  
Front street  
Fairfield avenue  
Franklin street fe)
Fountain street I
Fomer gate-house  
Fomer extension  
Glen street QIs
Gates street  
Gilman street  
Grant street  
Griffin’s hill leading
to Almshouse  
Grover street  
Harrison avenue  
Harvard street  
Highland terrace  
Hitchcock lane  
High street 
High street south
end of pipe  
Hydrants,  average feet  
Hampden street 
Hamilton street 
Hampshire street
  ft. of  -inch  
Hampshire terrace  
Highland avenue  
Hillside avenue  
High Service Reservoir Dam 
High Service Res. to
Wright gate-house  HU
High Service main |
to Bray Reservoir  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
a  a) |.
+/  s} a]|s }]  
ome one VN Cy oa)
Howard street  
Ingleside terrace  
Jackson street 
James street 
Jefferson avenue  
John street  
King street  
Linden street  
Lyman street  
Lincoln street 
Lynwood avenue  
Locust street  
Lawler street 
Laurel street  
Longwood avenue  
Main street 
Maple street 
Meadow street 
Morgan street  
Madison avenue  
Mosher street  
Miller avenue  
Miller court
  feet of  -inch
Magnolia street  
Myrtle street  
Norfolk street  
Northampton street gSo 
Newton street  
Nonotuck street 
Oak street  
O’Connor avenue  co
Oscar street  
Olive avenue ft.
of I-inch
Plymouth place  !
Papineau street  
Park street  
Pleasant street 
Prospect street 
Pine street  
Pequot street  
Pearl street  
Parker street  
Peltiah street |
Pipe line from Fomer  
Quincy street |
|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD I
a “a  
e e|eltelelelsieé
mOeannoN /S /)/S/a}Sl}e ss
ome  fy] NX ioe]
Russell terrace  
Railroad street  
Race street 
Riverside terrace  
Rock cut gate-house
easterly  
Springdale avenue  
Samosett street  
Springfield road  ,
South street  
Summer street 
Sargeant street 
School street  
St. James avenue  
St. Jerome avenue  
Shawmut avenue  
Suffolk street  
Sycamore street  
Spring street  
Tannery brook  
Taylor street 
Thorpe avenue  
Temple street  
Union street  
Vernon street  
View street  
Waldo street  
Winter street  
Walnut street  
Worcester place  !
West street  !
West Glen street  
Wolcott street  
Whiting Street Reservoir from  er
reservoir to pipe
at lower intake  
Whiting Street dam
for waste  
Willow street 
Water street  
William street  
Washington avenue  
Westfield lower road 
Total  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Total number of feet,  or miles.
 -Inch,.  ...    -inch,.  
.  -inch,.ee  -inch,.  ... -inch,. ...    -inech,.    -inch,.   ...  -inch,.    
,  -inch,.  ...  
Total  ...  
| Pipe laid per report of   
Amount laid in  ..).  
Total  ... 
TABLE C.
Summary of small pipe now laid for temporary mains
divided as follows:
 -inch, Ce feet
 -inch, toe     felt
  -inch, Cookeee) feet
 -inch, CookeeS feet
Iij-inch, .  feet
  -inech,  ... ee, feet
  -inch, Ck feet
. Total number of feet, 
o.t  miles. ;

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
TABLE D.
SUMMARY OF GATES SET IN  .
FART YS  
|  }; 
LOCATION. &
to jo} lo] +]  
Lat ene  ee)
CHAPMAN GATES.
Bh street, feet east of west line of
Bh street, foot north of north line of
Hampden street. |
Bh street, feet inches south of south |
line of Lyman street at intersection of
Prospect street, feet inches west of
east line of Bh street. I
High and Fountain streets, for hydrant feet!
  inches east of hydrant. I
Jackson street, feet west of hydrant on
north side of Jackson street, between Race |
and Main streets for hydrant. I
Magnolia street, feet east of west line of
Magnolia street, feet inches north of
north line of Sargeant street.  
Main pipe, (new inch) feet inches
east of east line of Rock Cut gate-house,
  feet inches north of south line of same.  
Main pipe, (new line) too feet east of east
line of Rock Cut gate-house, feet north |
of south line of same. I
Rock Cut gate-house, I
(gate has inch by-pass) .
Rock Cut, feet inches east of east line,
of Rock Cut gate-house, feet inches,
north of north line of same, for blow-off.  
Summer street, feet east of west line of
Summer street, feet south of south ine |
of Ely street. I
Westfield lower road, feet inches south |
of hydrant at intersection of upper Spring-'
field road and City Farm road, feet  
inches west of east line of City Farm road,
(for Mt. Marie. |
aaen

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE D, CONTINUED.
SSsSsasSSSSa S@ M” —$qSssSssS SS SE BS SSE
 /; /; 
Sielsic Sg
LOCATION. esl Keenll ged nll Riandd Wendl tae
tO loo} alo} +o
Cn  ee)
Miller court, feet north of south line of
Miller court, in line of land on West street,
 inch stop cock.
RENSSELAER GATES.
Main pipe, (old inch) at Meter House
near Jenks’ farm, tg feet east of east line
of Meter house, feet inches north of
south line of Meter House. I
Main pipe, (new inch) for by-pass at
Meter House near Jenks’ farm, feet  
inches east of east line of Meter House,  
feet inches north of south line of Meter
House. I
Main pipe, near Jenks’ farm, for Almshouse
main pipe, feet inches east of east
line of Meter House, feet inches north
of south line of Meter House. I
SMITH GATES.
Elmwood avenue, feet south of north line
of Elmwood avenue, feet west of east
line of Northampton street. I
West Glen street, feet south of north line
of West Glen street, feet west of east .
line of Northampton street.  
Total,   inch stop, I

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
TABLE E.
LOCATION AND SIZE OF GATES.
Te oe he Sie\a
 oO oO yg o; /;/ 
LOCATION. &/; |S  
+l s/eiais'
Appleton and Water I
“ and Mill |
‘* near Merrick Lumber Co. I
“ ft. east  level canal I
“ ft. west I
“ for hyd. W. R. R. crossing !
“  ft. east of Bond :
“ between Elm and Walnut,
for hydrant  -S
“ and Bh 
“ Tt; “i  -S
‘* at Am. Pad Paper Co. mill  -S
“ and Linden I
“ and Sycamore .
“ and Canal I
At Almshouse I
 main line I
  ft. south I
Allyn and Nonotuck 
“ and Arlington and Howard  
“ and Waldo .
“ and Northampton |
‘“ and Williams |
“ and Pleasant |
“ and Pearl |
Amherst and Pleasant |
Arlington and Lincoln |
“ and Hampdea ‘)|
Arthur and Vincent |
“ and Peltiah |
Adams and Canal im |
Digtizea ty GOORe

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
& oc]  ie ra rm
Oo Oo oO  :! 
LOCATION. &) |. ). :. 
+/ S| [elas z| 
Bray Brook, at reservoir I
Bray Reservoir, branch pipe I
Bray Reservoir, for blow-off I
Brown avenue and South I
Brooks avenue and Hampden I
Bh and Dwight  
‘‘ at City Hospital I
“oat  “for hydrant  -S
‘ and Appleton  
‘‘ for hydrant qo feet south of
Appleton  -S
‘‘ and Jackson blow-off I
‘and Hampden  
‘ and Hampshire I
‘  ro feet north of Sargaent'
for hydrant  -S
‘* cor. Essex for hydrant  -S
‘* ft.  in. east of No’ampton I
‘* and Northampton blow-off I
‘* and Prospect I
“and Suffolk  
Bond and Appleton I
““ and Essex I
“and Cabot I
Bowers and Lyman :
‘* and Mosher I
“ and Dwight I
“ and Pequot I
Berkshire and Main oY
Bigelow and Dwight I
“ forBeebe Holbrook P.Co. i
“and Appleton  :
‘ for Alpaca Co. mill {- )
‘and Cabot |
Beacon avenue and Pleasant !
“a and Northampton !
“  at Franklin Vf ri |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
me ae es |
 lsisis 
LOCATION. S|) a. ae ie  
ed eaeers eae
ee  , aes
Hee Mere (oes LORRI
Beacon avenue at Thorpe |
Bridge and Lyman ea
“ and Cabot |
‘“ and Hamilton |
“ and Sargeant Pi Me |
“ and Adams |
 and Mosher a
 and Canal, So. Holyoke |
Brown avenue and Laurel |
‘  ft. north of N. line |
of Willow for hydrant  -S |
Chestnut and Jackson |
and Franklin |
“ centerway bet. Franklin and |
Sargeant for hydrant  -S |
“ and Prospect |
“ and Hampden aa |
“ and Lyman |
“ and Appleton |
“  betweenAppletonandEssex, |
for hydrant |
“ and Cabot cor ay |
“ and Sargeant |
‘“ and Suffolk |
‘and Essex he vy ,
Crescent and Appleton Lo} |
Cabot and Canal |
“and Park oc oe |
“ and Main | |
“and Race |
“ ft. east  level canal |
“ ft. east  st level canal ce rae
“ ft. in. w.rstlevel canal) oo: |
 and High |
“ between Maple and High  :
for hydrant |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
yi[et et [et fs fet [et
 |/ ‘o /Ol/ol/O/O/salo
LOCATION.  SSeS
+|/ |d/alololsio
Ltee)
————— SS SS 
Cabot and Maple a.
“ for hydrant at alley between
Elm and Walnut  -S
 and Pine I
‘“ and Bh  
“ and Locust I
Clinton avenue and Dwight I
as and Miller avenue I
Canby and Hampden I
“and Beacon avenue I
Commercial and Cabot I
“and Sargeant  
‘* and Jackson I
Center and Lyman I
and Mosher Le
‘“ and East Dwight I
Canal, N. of Lyman in walk I
‘“ forline of pipe for mills |
“ and Bridge I
near Va. P. Co’s block I
 and Lyman I
and Lyman blow-off |
 and Mosher I
“  ft. north from Appl't’n. I
“and Appleton  
“ and Cabot I
‘ and Cabot, feet south of )
Cabot I
“ and Jackson  
‘ and Hamilton, blow-off |
“ and Summer I
“ and Park, blow off |
‘and Main, So. Holyoke |
Chapin and South I
“ and Carlton I
“ and Congress I
Digtizea ty GOORe

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  Fils |e
 S) oO Oo  /;/ ); 

LOCATION. £&/ .€ |. |) )e e
+ [d/ald|d/ ld
 St NINOS
Chapin and Gates I
“and Walnut I
at Welch house, blow-off |
‘ ft. south of south line |
of South street forhydrant)  -S
Carlton street, end of Russel ter. |
for hyd., east side -S
‘* and Northampton a
Clark and Northampton ao .
“ for hydrant, westerly endof |
street S. S.  -S
‘* for hydrant, ft. west of |
Northampton  
Congress and Elm I
“ and Chapin I
Cook, cor. Myrtle |
Corser and Isabella I
‘ and Northampton  |
Coit street, cor. Hillside ave. |
Cottage and Beacon streets |
Cherry and Northampton I
Charles and Washington |
“ and south  
Davis and Elm |
Dexter and Hitchcock |
Division and High bt  
“ and Railroad zu |
Dwight and Bridge |
“ and Center  |
‘“ and West |
“ and Race |
Dwight near Second level canal |
wall, west side bY  |
‘“ at Wauregan Paper Co. eae: |
“ and Front Be: |
“ and Railroad |
|ee ee
Digtizea ty GOORe

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD
  SS SE SS
alg ivi
 Oo  O}/OlOlOQIO!O
LOCATION.  
: S/alS  slo
) 
’ on oe

Dwight and Maple rr |
‘‘ for cistern at Park I
‘sand Chestnut |
‘ and Elm |
‘and Walnut I
‘ and School |
‘and Pleasant |
‘and Northampton |

Essex and Bh |
“ and High Pp
‘and Maple ot |
‘  ft. south of north line of a

Essex, ft. E. of E. line |) |
and Chestnut ||
“and Bh  -S ae
“ and Maple og !
“ and Elm I
‘and Walnut ly |
‘“ and Pine oy 

East and Jackson |
“and Samosett |
‘and Lyman Oo |
“ and Dwight   |
“ and Ely poi ot :
‘“ and Cabot ae
‘ and Mosher |

Ely and Bowers by So .
“ and Bridge boi
and Fly Court Pohl
“Court and Lyman|
“ Court and Ely street |

Elm and Prospect  i
“and Lyman |
“and Hampden |
“ and Dwight |
“for stand-pipe at No. |

| otto

é :
; REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
S/ lolols S
LOCATION. £&/.  ). 
| |S  [e/eS/ei 's
|
Elm and Suffolk |
“and Appleton |
“and Appleton, for hydrant !
“and Cabot |
“and Hampshire :
“and Sargeant |
“ and Gates I
“ and South |
“and Essex |
Elmwood ave. and Northampton  -S
Front and Lyman, Parsons line po
‘and Lyman !
“ and Dwight street alley |
“ and Dwight  
‘and Appleton ,
Front of House of Providence !
Franklin aud Commercial |
“ and High |
‘and Maple |
“ and Sycamore |
‘and Locust 
Fairfield ave., front of ‘Tower’s |
house |
“and Pearl |
“ and Northampton |
‘ front Alderman’s house |
“and Nonotuck |
Fountain and High |
“ and Maple |
“ and Chestnut |
“ and Elm |
Fomer Extension, front of Hol- Po
oke Ice Co’s house :
‘ Extension at culvert south S|
end Ashley pond, easterly |
overflow, for blow-off |
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
ian bn ee
Leck Neehea etal
| ey lo Osol'S \olo
LOCATION. Os BBLS |S \e
+/  aldiol+  
| cae asa ic  ee)
— seinen Sores slre ae
Fomer Extension at Tatro brook, ,
west side highway to West. |
field, for blow-off |
“ at foot of High Service) |
Reservoir hill  
“ at toe of High Service dam  |
at toe of High Service dam, Bad |
for blow-ott |
Gatehouse at Fomer Reservoir io Re ae
Gate at Ashley pond ae
“ at Wright’s pond  
“at Tannery brook or
Gatehouse at Whiting St. brook  )
“  blow-olf, Whiting St. brook ies |
Gates and klm Gf |
Glen and Northampton |
and N’thampton for hydran! S- |
‘“ and Brown avenue |
Grant and Meadow |
‘“ and Brook  |
Gilman and Northampton ae |
Highland terrace and River ter-) |
race |
Hampshire terrace and N’tham’n |
Hitchcock lane at Merrick’s farm- |
house |
High and Prospect ja ;
‘“ and Fountain, for hydrant || |
‘“ and Hampden Agee a! a
‘“ and Lyman fie ,
‘“ and Dwight |
“for City Hall ch |
 and Appleton |
 and Cabot ore !
“ and Sargeant  :
“and Jackson fg ba
}  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
beady tees cal |
 elec lelelecic|clea
S|  |vO  O
LOCATION. ae ie Ee rE  jestes
| t+} OO  oN ime) fe)
| ‘ew  ATA) ey
ee ey See Mavakes
High between Franklin and Sar- |
geant, for hydrant S-r |
“ betweenSargeant andHamp- |
shire, for hydrant, w. s. S-  |
“ between Hampshire and |
Cabot for hydrant|
“ at Ball Treworgy’s, for |
service \S-  Bie  |
Howard and Hampden oy oP  
“ and Lincoln oe ae a
Harrison and South E: ate ,
“ and Washington |
Hampden and Pine bs Me i] |
“and Prospect !
“ and High |
“and School ae  
“ for hydrant, west side, bet. |
School and Washington S-r Da |
‘* and Brooks avenue bee |
‘* and Nonotuck a, ne |
“and Canby ar aa
‘“ and Northampton oi |
Hamilton and Canal ™
“and Fast Bacall 
‘ and Main tS] PoP a
Hampshire and Highopay  |
 and Oak ts |
‘and Locust (ae ry |
“ and Commercial |
“and Maple he by
“ and Chestnut hob  
‘“ and Elm i) |
‘ and Walnut eh oe
“and Pine |
“and Bh|
“ and Bh, for hydrant S-  ot |
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Si) a] is roar &
O \S)  S)  'O;/ 
LOCATION. &)/ .€ \S) )S\e eis
+} Q
Le el eS es ow)
Harvard and Pleasant |
Highland avenue and Pleasant |
“ and Nonotuck I
High Service Reservoir gatehouse 
‘ main pipe, foot of High Ser-;  vice Reservoir hill  
‘‘ main pipe, foot of High Ser- |
vice Reservoir hill blow-off: |
‘main pipe, in road to Wright! ||
gatehouse hoy dy
‘ main pipe, opposite Wright |
gatehouse |
Hitchcock and Northampton ro.
' and Westfield road  
Homestead avenue, for hydrant |
front of Goodyear’s house  -S |
John and Front pe
‘and High 
James, Springdale |
Jackson and Maple :
“and Main roy !
‘and Linden |
‘“ and Summer  |
“and Race ri |
‘ between Race and Main for |
hydrant pot
“ and High :
Jefferson ave. and Lexington ave.| |
Jefferson ave. and Madison ave.  
King street and Hillside ave. or !
“ ft. east of east line :
of Hiullside ave. Voy |
Linden and Suttolk |
‘“ and Hampden mS
‘and Dwight on |
“and Sargeant |
| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
. a| |S co  |. |
Oo OQ oO 
) LOCATION. £/.  €& |. ). /) 
+t|/ |! [dlalolo|/+io
en ne ee)
Linden and Hampshire  
“and Essex  
“ and Appleton  
‘ and Bh I
‘and Franklin I
‘“ front of Whiting avenue, for
hydrant S- 
‘s between Hampshire and
Cabot, for hydrant S- 
Lyman, ft. east of west line of
Summer a:
‘and Race  
‘ feet west of west line  d
level canal I
‘ feet east of east line rst os
. level canal I
‘and Front I
‘* and High  
‘and Pine  
‘“ and Elm I
Locust and Sargeant  
“and Franklin  
‘and Hampshire I
| “and Essex  
“and Appleton  
Lawler and Northampton I
‘ and Martin |.
Laurel and Brown avenue I
‘ and Northampton I
Longwood avenue and North- ,
ampton  -S |
Lynwood ave. and St. James ave. |
 avenue and Dwight |
Lincoln and Taylor |
‘ and Pleasant |
‘and Pearl |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
| aa
le |e alcic x
Ss) s) Oo /O re
LOCATION. €£/  |€.e:  
H/S SESS RS
ae
Lincoln and Northampton |
“for hydrant, front Alder- |
man’s house  -S
Main pipe, east end of Rock cut |
‘; pipe, (new line), feet
east Rock cut gatehouse |
‘  pipe, (new inch), ft. |
  in. east of Rock cut gate- |
house !
, pipe, (old  inch), at Meter |
house near Jenks’ farm [-r |
‘ pipe, (new inch), for by-' |
, pass at Meter house near !
Jenks’ farm I-r |
“ pipe, near jJenks’ farm, for |
Almshouse main -r |
‘ pipe, at sta.  Bray’s lot rf
‘  pipe,(  inch), for hydrant |
Bray's lot  -S |
‘pipe, Merrick’s farmhouse |
“ pipe, b. o. at Tannery brook’ J
‘ pipe, inch pipe line  -S;  
Merrick’s farmhouse, on inch
pipe I
‘ farmhouse intersection  
and  -inch pipe I
Main and Mosher, feet south of
north line ofklatIron block: I
“and Race I
  ft. n. of driveway, Hotel
Hamilton I
‘ and Appleton  
‘* and Hamilton I
‘* and Sargeant I
‘ ft. in. n. of n. line of  d:
level canal I
a  ™

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
| |
me r- lea ashes th ee
 S)  S) LS)  /; 
LOCATION. sae) set  She
a  al fa tlh
cena See me Oo
Main ft. in. s. of s. line of  |
level canal |
“and South I
“at Ferry road I
cor. Dwight. for hydrant  -S |
“* at Springdale b’rk, for b. o. |
és sé éé I
“ and Jackson |
‘“ and Cabot |
Meadow and Main eo) |
Morgan and Franklin  Sg |
“and Northampton |
“ ft. east of Tower’s drive- |
way; feet s. of n. line |
of Morgan |
Maple and Dwight |
“and Prospect be |
“aud Lyman |
‘“ and Hampden |
‘and Hampden for stand pipe, |
‘“ forhydrant between Dwight |
and Suffolk oh |
‘“ and Suffolk |
“for hydrant bet. Appleton |
and Suffolk pie
“and Appleton I
“ for Congregational Church |
“ for hydrant between mppley |
ton and Essex aia |
“for hydrant between Cabot,  et |
and Essex oe |
* and Cabot  
“ for hydrant cor. Cabot |) |
‘ for hydrant bet. Sargeant |
and Hampshire |
“and Sargeant I
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
ai) oe iclaie|ec slg
oO QO oO VlUsl/YUlo|VoO|o
LOCATION. &/ |) €& |\€). ). 
+/  ta
a nf ——
Maple for hydrant cornerSargeant ‘I
‘and Franklin I
‘ and Jackson I
‘“ and South I
.“ and Ross avenue oy I
 and Hampshire I
‘  and Essex I
‘and Norfolk I
‘and Sargeant, for electric
car sprinkler, ft. in.
north of nortb line of Sargeant I
Madison avenue and Jefferson I
‘avenue and Nonotuck I
Mechanic street at water street I
Mosher and Center I
‘and West  
“and Main I
Magnolia and Sargeant  
“and Franklin I
Miller avenue and Hampden I
Miller court and West
  inch
Myrtle and Northampton I
‘and Washington I
Newton and Appleton ot
“and Cabot I
Northampton b. o. at J. Thorpe’s I
“ b. o. at C. H. Heywood’s!
farmhouse I
“ b. o. at C. H. Heywood’s  
‘and Lincoln I
“ ft. n. of Laurel for hyd. S- 
‘“ and Hampden I
“ and Dwight I
“at G. P. Ellison’s|
Hot EE

REPORT OF WATER BOARD )
  Hae
LOCATION.  
+/  |O]a}o/ /| 
a nl Mie ee)
| Northampton and Bh I
‘* at Ball’s corner, b. o. I
so ft. north of P. Counihan’s
for hydrant  -S
* and Hitchcock lane I
** and South  
“at H. Brown’s |
“and Lawler ry}
‘ near Glen, for b. o. |
“ and Clark  
“* at entrance cemetery ]
* at Whiting’s farm |
“ at R. R. dry bridge ie] |
Nonotuck and Lincoln I
* and Hampden I
“ and Dwight I
“* and Highland avenue en es |
“and Madison avenue |
“* feet south of south line |
of Hampden, for hydrant) -S ss
Norfolk and High |
Olive and Dwight, in. |
Oak and Dwight |
“ and Suffolk |
“and Appleton |
“ and Essex |
“and Cabot aa |
“ and Sargeant|
O’Connor avenue and Dwight |
Oscar and Peltiah Bi ||
Peltiah and Springfield road |
- Pine and Essex a] |
“ and Lyman it |
“and Hampden |
“ and Dwight |
“and Suffolk mn |
| |
Digtizea ty GOORe

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
;  jolhe if ra |
O  Oj; 
LOCATION. Si |] Sle sls  e\.s
Iti |dj/asjol| tio
.ee et)
Pine and Appleton I
‘* and Cabot  
‘; and Hampshire  
‘and Sargeant  
Pequot and West |
Park and Sargeant |
‘ and Canal .
‘ and Jackson |
‘ and Cabot I
Prospect and High |
“and Chestnut, blow-off |
“ and Hampden  
“ and Walnut I
“at Ice House, blow-off |
“ and Pine |
Pearl and Lincoln I
“and Hampden :
‘and Fairfield avenue  
‘and Highland avenue  
Papineau argd Main I
Pleasant and Amherst I
‘ and Lincoln  
‘and Fairfield avenue .
‘“ and Hampden I
‘ and Beacon avenue |
“ and Dwight  |
‘ and Harvard I
“ and Yale I
‘at Brown’s house I
‘“ between Fairfield ave. and
Highland ave., for hydrant, S- 
“ ft. north of Highland
ave., for hydrant S- 
Parker and Hampden  
‘“* and Beacon avenue ot
Quincy and Northampton I
. a

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
alg dais
oO Oo  o, /; ); /; 
LOCATION.  Sie SSeS
+ Be  ,
ee MM vowgus
Race, for Hotel Hamilton |
“ and Dwight |
 and Dwight, for hydrant Ser |
“and Main i. |
‘* and Appleton |
“ and Cabot |. |
“and Sargeant |
“ and Jackson Fi |
‘ and South eae |
“and South bh  se
“rear of Merrick Thread Mill |
Railroad and Dwight zs  |
“and Appleton |
Rock cut gatehouse,( in.by-pass)) ae
‘ cut, ft. in. east of Rock! |
cut gatehouse, for blow-off  
Ross avenue and Maple et |
Russellville hill, blow-off on Form- |
er line |
Russell terrace and Carleton |
River terrace and Highland ter-) |
race ray |
‘ terrace and Northampton |
Sargeant at Parsons No.  Mill  oat |
‘ ft. east of rst level canal |
‘ and Summer |
‘ and Park |
“at H. and W.R.R. bridge) |
‘* and Maple ie. |
 and Chestnut |
‘ and Walnut }
‘sand Pine for hydrant S- |
‘ and Beach iY aS me |
‘* and Locust |
 and St. Jerome avenue Ad |
‘ and Northampton |
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
al) jc |
Oo} Oo Oo /O O/O/O/O/O |
LOCATION. £/ |.€) 
+/  |dlalol/o} +o |
Te en It en  EE Ee)
Sycamore and Franklin I
‘and Sargeant I
 and Hampshire I
‘ and Cabot  
‘and Essex |
“and Appleton I
Spring and Main S- 
Samosett and Center I
‘and West I
and Bowers I
Summer and Lyman I
Summer and Ely I
 and Cabot I
and Adams |
‘ and Canal, South Holyoke  
St. Jerome avenue and Dwight I
‘avenue and Farnum street I
St. Jerome ave. at southerly end of
Forestdale cemetery fence I
St. James and St. Jerome avenues I
‘ and Northampton I
Shawmut ave. and Northampton I
 and Lynwood ave. I
School and Hampden I
“ and Dwight :
‘‘ for stand-pipe !
South and Race I
‘ and Maple I
‘ and Chapin ae
‘near driveway east of No. |
 for hydrant  -S
“ east of Baptist church I
‘sand Brown ave. I
“and Russell terrace I
‘and Russell terrace for hyd. S-  |
ee

REPORT OF WATER BOARD oy
leasses
\O is) Oo /OlO/ 
LOCATION. geeee ee
ae BBE  
it
South, ft. west of west line of! ‘.. |
Chapin street for hyd. S-  |
“ and Elm |
Suffolk and Linden |
“and School |
 and High I
and Maple I
‘ and Chestnut |
 and Elm |
“and Walnut |
“ and Pine Prego oe |
‘ Railroad |
“and Bh |
and Oak Ph |
Springfield rd. n. Brigham’s house Poy tw
rd. at intersection N’thamp- |
ton st., at R. R. bridge |
‘road at R. R. bridge ae |
‘ road near Griffins’ house eh Won |
“road on pipe leading from |
upper Springfield road to ,
N street under bridge |
‘ road on pipe leading toH. |
F. Institute |
‘ road at Brightside, feet |
south of hydrant |
‘road feet north of div. line, |
St. Martin’s Brightside foe |
‘ road at watering tank |
‘ road at Ferry road ha
 road and River terrace |
 road and River ter.up. rd. si |
Springdale avenue, foot east of it oaea
Temple street ie |
Southampton pipe line, feet |
from Fomer gatehouse ie ae
; toi |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
  rane et et  ct a
o!'S OG /o/ololo ae
LOCATION, ole SS Lee eae
} +t] Oo /O;/aANWO]o +/ 
| spam im NTN eS
di unin,, Unk eet oOa
Southampton, feet frou |
gatehouse ;
‘ feet from gatehouse :
** feet from Ssehouse r
“  feet from gatehouse :
‘ feet from gatehouse ‘
Temple and James |
‘and Papineau :
‘Tannery Brook line, n.  -in pipe) ,
Taylor near |
‘and Hampden  oe |
“and Lincoln ay
near hydrant at R. T. Pren- |
tiss’ barn  
‘“ at R. T. Prentiss’ house a.
‘“ fcr blow-off at Prentiss’! EE
house |
Union and Lyman |
Vernon, Springdale PS TA |
View and Brown avenue |
View and Northampton |
 Te east: of een |
ton, for hydrant Sat |
Wolcott and Elm tS aa |
and Chapin :
West and Dwight |
‘ and Mosher |
‘“ and Samosett |
Washington and Harrison tte Wi |
‘* and Northampton ge  
Waldo and Hampden |
“and Lincoln |
Walnut and Lyman |
‘and Fountain |
“ and Dwight |
| |
Digtizea ty GOORe

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
SS SS OF eh   TO oe aa
aie sissies
LOCATION. le S\ \£\ !s
PAP TO eS  
| eae |
S cwememecaees os WR REY k'y  k
Walnut and Suffolk Po eh Oe
“and Appleton ae |
“ and Cabot  |
‘ and Hampshire bt |
“and Fssex on |
“ and Hampden eM ye
“and Sargent nD
Water and Appleton |
West Glen and Northampton |
Willow and brown avenue fey Py |
“and Laurel |
and Laurel, for hydrant S-r| |
Whiting Street reservoir |
Winter and Appleton ss He |
Williams and Lincoln Lok |
Westfield road and Northampton tne |
‘ road and Hitchcock *) |
‘* road, north of Drew barn, fe. |
for hydrant |
‘ road, north side driveway to |
Holyoke Ice Co.’s barn for |
hydrant I, |
‘ lower road and City Farm! Pye |
road (for Marie) |) :
epee bas cs Sy SP  all ak
Total, ie 't§ pial  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE F.
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS SET IN  .
 @
ne) cu 
| in wala
LOCATION. Make elec
& £\
 |S
IS |
sg te rr
Bh street; feet south from inter- |
section of Prospect and Lyman |
Streets, 'E Hercules  
Elmwood avenue, feet west from |
Northampton street, NS Hercules  
Longwood avenue, feet west from .
Nothampton street, NS Hercules 
West Glen street, feet west from |
Northampton street. NS Hol. F. H. |
BS(Comp.)  s—|-—
Total, I  
a

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE F.—Continued.
HYDRANTS REPLACED.
  niga
LOCATION. re Make c
@  
& le
  +)  
High and Fountain streets, Nw Hol. F. H. I
(Replaces  -inch double, Holyoke) .
Jackson and Race stseets, IN Hol. F. H. I
(Replaces  -tnch double, Mathews)
Pine and Essex streets, NW Hol. F. H.  
(Replaces  -inch single, Mathews) .
Race and Cabot streets, \N Hol. F. H. .
(Replaces  -inch single,’ Holyoke) |
en
Total,   I
oe |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE G.
LOCATION OF HYDRANTS.
be vi oe
 size
LOCATION Make ‘S |.  [s
 er jf) Soe
tle)*
eS eSed Fad —oO
Adams and Park SW JHol. F. H. |
Adams and Summer I
Appleton and Mechanic  South ““ |
Appleton, to ft. west HI. W.R. |
R. track near river South I
Appleton and Bigelow SE |
Appleton. ft. west H. W.R. |
R. track ‘South |
*Appleton and Bond IN tS) |
Appleton and High Sk |
*Appieton, at alley between High :
and Maple is ‘s |
Appleton, bet. Kim and Walnut ISS |Chapman |
Almshouse, front of Center fol. F. HL. |
* \lmshouse, rear SW |
*Allyn, ft. east from Pearl ““ |
* Allyn ft. east from Nonotuck “s  
Allyn and Nonotuck Pratt& Cady ‘
Allyn and Waldo Cor, Hol. F. di. |
Allyn and Williams ““  
Allyn and Howard Pratt& Cady a
Allyn and Arlington “*
*\inmheist to ft. west of Pleasant |N Hol. F. H. |
Arlington and Lincoln SE Pratt Cady |
Arthur and Peltiah oiHol. KF. H. |
Arthur and Vincent SW ““ |
Beacon ave., east NO. North “s |
Beacon ave., and Nonotuck ““ |
| foie
*Steamer Connection,

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
F aa ll
| gia ielge
LOCATION. Fame aee. Make ls Baa ye
oe glg lelak
Srie foe herd, ek Leet be
| Brean
Beacon ave. and Canby INE (Hol. F.-Hy |
Beacon ave. and Parker iE aca |
Beacon ave. and Northampton NE I
Bh between Prospect and  |
Hampden |E  |Hercules I
Bh and Dwight |S |Hol. F. H. I
Bh and Suttolk IN I
Bh and Appleton IN Y.  
*Bh ft. south of Appleton WS I
*Bh rio ft. north of Sargeant ES I
*Bh ft. east of driveway |
to City Hospital. IN I
Bh, at driveway to City |
Hospital MS I
Bigelow, ft. south of Dwight ES |
Bigelow ft. south of Dwight WS i
Bigelow ft. south of Dwight WS  
Bigelow ft south of Massasoit |
Paper Co. Ws |
Bigelow at Skinner’s Mill, south- |
east corner Ws 
Bigelow ft. south of north- Pal
east corner Alpaca Mill ws  |g
Bigelow, ft. south of northeast |
corner Alpaca Mill \wS |
Bigelow and Cabot IN ce |
Road. front of Skinner's mill WS eae |
Bond and Essex |
Bowers and Ely SE ae |
Bowers and Mosher |
Bowers and Dwight NE Mathews |
Bowers and Samosett iN  (Hok FF, |
Bridge and Canal sw |
Bridge and Lyman IN LS a
Bridge and Dwight NE i
Bridge ft. north from Cabot WS an |
Bridge and Cabot |
Bridge and Sargeant NE |
Bridge and Adams SE ae |
Bridge and Jackson SE as a
Bridge, front of Valley Paper Co. ES  |
Brightside School Cent’r |
Brightside School n. nursery Lt
Brooks ave. south No. ES  aoe |
Brown ave. between Laurel and |
Sonth mS 
- #Steamer Connection.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
. Yo
ne  B,
LOCATION Bas) Make /o] tel s-s
  ao] a] win ww
O le Es
+ |r| 
*Brown ave. between Willow and |
Laurel WS  |Hol. F. H. I
Cabot at alley east of Summer (SS I
Cabot, ft. east of Main SS. |Chapman I
Cabot, at Cabot street mill NE |Hol. F. H. I
Cabot, at Cabot street mill I
Cabot, west side first level canal INS I
Cabot and Bond SS  I
Cabot and East SW I
Cabot, at alley between High and |
Maple NS |Chapman I
Cabot, at alley between Elm and ,
Walnut SS Hol. F. H. I
Cabot and Bh NE I
Cabot and Oak NE |
Cabot and Sycamore ““ |
Canal and Lyman NE |
Canal, at Street Ry. station ES I
Canal and Grover SE {Pratt Cady| |
Canal and Lyman (north flat) Hol. F. H. I
Canal, cor Mosher NW |
Canal,northeast end Deane Steam
. Pump Co’s. lot WS |Pratt Cady) |
Canal and Appleton Hol. F. H. |
Canal, at Nat. Blank Book Co’s.
mill Chapman |
Canal and Cabot NE |Hol. F. H. |
Canal and Hamilton |Mathews I
Canal, ft. north of bridge to |
Excelsior Paper Co.’s mill ‘ES |Hol. F. H. I
Canal and Adams |
Canal and Jackson SW |
Canal and Summer (South
Holyoke) SS ““ I
Canal and Summer SE ““  
*Canby and Hampden SE ““ |
Carlton and Chapin SW I
*Carlton and Russell terrace NE |
Carlton, at Clarenbach’s SS |
Center and Canal Ws! |
Center, between Ely and Mosher WS Chapman |
Center and Mosher SW. iHol. F. H. .
Center, ft. south of Mosher WS) !Chapman I
Center and Samosett ‘Hol. F. H. |
Center, alley east of Hadley Block |
*Steamer connection.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
} Vio
LOCATION Make  be"  a
me Sf; |U OU |wH/|alie
  |s|s/ 
+t [we] [Sd 
Center, alley west of Hadley
Block Hol. F. H. I
Chapin, ft. north of Congress
avenue |Mathews I
Chapin and South Hol. F. H. I
*Chapin, ft. north from Carlton WS I
*Chapin, ft. south of South
street Ws I
Chapin and Washington ave. I
Chestnut and Prospect. SE  |Mathews :
Chestnut and Fountain SW |Hol. F. H. I
Chestnut and Lyman NE I
Chestnut and Hampden SW I
Chestnut and Suffolk I
Chestnut and Appleton NE I
Chestnut, between Appleton and
Essex WS |Chapman I
Chestnut and Essex |Hol. F. H. I
Chestnut and Cabot I
Chestnut and Hampshire I
*Chestnut between Sargeant and
Hampshire Ws I
*Chestnut, center way between
Franklin and Sargeant ES I
Chestnut and Franklin NE I
City Hospital NS I
City Hospital WS I
Clark and Northampton |Pratt Cady I
*Clark ft. north of Northampton NS |Hol. F. H. I
Clark and Ball NS |Pratt Cady I
Clark, westerly end of street SS jChapman I
*Coit and Hillside avenue Hol. F. H. I
Columbus avenue at end of street |N ““ I
Commercial and Franklin I
Commercial and Jackson I
Congress and Elm SW  I
Congress, halfway between Chapin and Elm NS I
Cook and Washington ave. |Chapman I
Cottage ave. at end of pipe Hol. H. F. I
Crescent, ft. south of Appleton ES I
Davis, at No. iN I
*Steamer connection. |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
be lo! |
S \elg' 
LOCATION Make  “EE rs
nn ;'C Cie no
rs) wt] oe josh eis
: s| giggs
| j[ wi Oo F
Davis, at Walnut NS jHol. F. H. |
Dexter and Hitchcock NE ‘Chapman I
*Division and High SE ““ |
Dwight and East (Hol. F. H. ‘
Dwight and Center NW (
Dwight and West  
Dwight. at Beebe Holbrook
Paper Co.’s mill SS I
Dwight, at Wauregan Paper Co.'s
mill SS ‘“ I
Dwight, ft. east of High NS |Pratt Cady! |
*Dwight and High SE |Hol. F. H.  
Dwight, at No. SS I
Dwight, at Hampden Park NS |
Dwight and lm NE  |Mathews I
Dwight and Elm SW Hol. F. H. |
Dwight, southwest corner of
Hampden park (hydrant plugged) i'Cistern i
Dwight and Pine Hol. F. H. I
*Uwight and Linden NE  I
Dwight, opposite Whiting ave. IN |Mathews I
*Dwight and School iHol. F. H. I
Dwightard Clinton ave. Ww ““ |
Dwight, west of No. SS  |Mathews I
wight and Pleasant SW Ho Fk. H.  
Dwight and Nonotuck WwW ““ ot
Dwight and Parker NE Pract Cady I
East, ft. north of Ely |Hol. F. H. I
Fast and Mosher SW I
East, ft. south of Mosher |’ I
Fast and Samosett |Chapman I
Kast, north of city foundry ES Hol. F. H. |
Last and Cabot NE |Chapman I
Kast, ft. south of Cabot ES Hol. F. H. |
Kast and Hamilton SE I
IKeast at No. ES ““ |
Elm and Fountain SE I
Kim, ft. south of Lyman WS  I
Elm and Hampden 'N Mathews I
Elm, between Dwight and Hamp.- |
den ‘WS Chapman {
Elm. between Dwight and Suf- |
folk WS ‘. I
Elm and Suffolk iN jHol. F. H. I
Elm and Appleton IN |
ee ee
*Steamer connection.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
|  |e w
  ws) Ss [a tele
LOCATION senses Make ss |O|  hls
tte at ar fe fe be
LO YeLES |
| *./* SiS],
Elm and Appleton iHol, F: H. |
Elm and Essex NW  I
Elm and Cabot NE  |
Elm and Hampshire IN  |
Elm and Sargeant I
Elm and Davis SW sPratt Cady  
Elm and Gates IN |Hol. F. H.  
Elm, ft. north of South street WS sa ald
Elmwood avenue, ft. west Cul
from Northampton NS  fElercules |
Ely and Bridge SW: Hol. Fo Hy|
Ely and Center Nk Mathews loa |
Ely and West NS /Hol. F..H. |
Ely Court and Lyman ES r| |
Ely Court and Ely Street Pa hd he
*kssex, ft. west of High INS se nie |
Essex and Maple ws |
*Kssex and Maple S$ ce I
*kssex, ft. east from Elm SS I
- *Essex, bet. Elm and Walnut is I
Essex, at alley between Walnut |
and Pine SS a: |
*Essex and Bh |
Essex and Linden tall
Fssex and Poplar  
Fairfield ave. and Pleasant  Pea
*Fairfield ave. ft. west of
Nonotuck INS (Pratt Cady pa |
| Fairfield ave. opposite No. iss Hol Fell, |
Fairfield ave. opposite No. SS  
Fairfield ave. opposite No. N.S |
Fairfield ave. at Dean's house North es .
Fountain and Front ms i’  
Fountain, alley between High and |
Maple NS |
Fountain, alley between Maple |
and Chestnut NS |
Fountain, alley between Chestnut |
and Elm SiS si et |
*Franklin and High er |
Franklin and Magnolia  
Franklin and St. Jerome ave. !
Front and Hampden i
Front and John W) Mathews |
Front and Dwight NW Chapman |
*Steamer connection. ;
Digtizea ty GOORe

  REPORT OF WATER ROARD
i} |  )
ww ew  Swe
LOCATION Make be| 
u (Ol UW lol ni
s) ||  £
& [S| lod
Gates, half-way bet. Chapin and |
Elm NS jHol. F. H. I
Gates, corner Chapin NE I
Gilman and Northampton ““ I
Gilman and Ball NE I
Glen and Brown ave. ES I
Glen, ft. east from Northampton NS ““ I
*Glen and Northampton NE ‘“ I
Grant and Brook street SW, I
Grant and Meadow NE I
Grover bet. Lyman and Canal WS (Chapman I
Grover and Lyman I
Hamilton and Bridge SW Hol. F. H. I
Hamilton and Park NE I
Hamilton, ft. west of Main NS |Chapman I
Hampden, too ft east of High NS ‘Hol. F. H. I
Hampden, at alley bet. High and
Maple I
Hampden and Maple I
Hampden, at alley bet. Chestnut
and Maple I
Hampden and Chestnut NE I
Hampden and Chestnut ;
Hampden at alley bet. Chestnut |
and Elm SS I
Hampden and Elm SW i
Hampden, at alley between Elm |
and Walnut NS |
Hampden and Walnut |
Hampden and Pine NE I
Hampden and Bh NE  
Ilampden, at intersection of
Prospect NS ““  
Hampden, opposite No. North I
Hampden and School i
Hampden, between School and |
Washington Ws I
Hampden and Washington I
Hampden and Taylor SS ““ I
Hampden and Waldo iS WwW: '
Hampden and Tloward  
Harrison ave..to ft. south of No.  jE ‘“s f
Hampshire and Commercial SE ‘Chapman .
Hampshire and Commercial NW tHe KF. H. u
.ee ee
* Steamer connection. (

REPORT OF WATER BOARD ol Vig
 "te Bnio
LOCATION Make  fe on \ol DO iwiniw
 |Sls/ 
+ fs] [Sid Jd
Hampshire and Maple NE |Hol. F. H.  
“Hampshire, ft. west from
Elm NS |Chapman I
Hampshire, ft. west from
Walnut NS I
*Hampshire and Bh SE |Hol. F. H. I
Hampshire and Sycamore NE I
* Harvard, ft. west from Pleasant NS ““ I
High and Fountain NW I
*High ft. north of Lyman Ws ae I
High, front of No. ES I
High and Oliver Ws I
High at No. KES I
High and Hampden t
High and Hampden SE I
High and Hampden SW ‘e I
High at No. ES I
High at No. WS I
*High at No. Ws “e I
High and Appleton NE I
High at No. WS I
High and Essex SE I
*High between Essex and Cabot ES ‘“ I
High and Cabot SE I
High, between Cabot and Hamp- |
shire ES ,
High and Hampshire SE I
*High, bet. Hampshire and Sargeant Ws ““ I
*High bet. Sargeant and Franklin KS I
High and Franklin SW I
High ana Jackson I
High and Norfolk I
Highland ave. and Pearl SW I
Highland terrace and Hampshire
terrace |Mathews I
*Hillside ave. and Cherry SW jiHol. F. H. I
*Hitchcock and Northampton SW  I
“Homestead ave. front of Goodyear’s house Ws I
Jackson bet. Main and Race INS I
Jackson and Race I
*Steamer connection.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
| o| /\o
re —- Se
LOCATION  Make  sis 'D on |Uo| TU in\io
  |S| \e) \s
: |+|  b/d  )
Jackson, ft. west of  nd level
canal NS|Hol. F. H. I
Jackson, near Farr Alpaca Co.’s |
office ss I
Jackson, near Farr Alpaca Co.'s |
, boiler house SS t
James and Main I
James and Temple NW  
John, rear of opera house SS I
John, alley east of High NS I
*King street and Hillside ave. || I
Laurel, at No. NS I
Laurel and Willow NS I
Lawler, front of G. W. Hills NS  I
Lawler and Martin NE et I
Lincoln and Pleasant  
*{incoln and Williams |Chapman I
Lincoln and Howard West |Hol. F. H.  
Linden and Hampden SE as  
*Linden, front of Whiting ave.  (Chapman I
*Linden and Appleton I
Linden and Cabot NE /Hol. F..  I
*linden, between Cabot and
lfampshire ES (Chapman I
Linden and Hampshire SE. |Hol. F. H. I
Linden, corner Franklin I
*Linden and Bh Chapman I
*locust and Appleton NE j|Hol. F. H. a. |
Locust and Essex NW Pratt Cady I
Locust and Cabot  
Locust, corner Hampshire Se Mol RFE.) |) at
Locust and Sargeant IS  
Locust and Franklin |N an I
Locust, ft. south of Ws cg I
Longwood avenue, ft. west |
from Northampton NS. |Hercules I
ILyman, ft. west of Summer \North |Hol. F. H.  
Lyman and fast Ss (Mathews I
Lyman, at No. Ss es I
Lyman, at No. Sto  
Lyman, ft. east of ist level
canal SS |Hol. F.H.  
Lyman and Front SW |
Lyman, too ft. east of High iS Lion
Lyman and High SW as 
*Steamer connection.
Digtizea ty GOORe

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
, |
 ve v
x leis
LOCATION Make te) \-
Ss BA hee
v e-  e— B
-] |e] S/S |
*Lyman, tri ft. west of High NS ae F. H. I
Lyman and Bh Ss I
Lynwood ave. and Dwight Con.  I
Lynwood and Shawmut aves. SW ‘f I
Lynwood and St. James aves. SW ssPratt Cady I
Main, at Post Office Building WS |Hol. F. H. I
*Main, ft. north of Dwight Ws |
Main, ft. south of Dwight Wee si I
Main, ft. south of Dwight WS I
Main, ft. south of Cross WSs sg  
Main, ft. north of Appleton |W  |
Main and Appleton  |
Main and Spring SE Mathews ,
Main and Cabor Hol. F. H. ‘a
Main and Hamilton SE Chapman I
Main and Hamilton SW |Hol. F. H. |
Main and Sargeant is '
Main and Adams SE I
Main, northeast corner of Warp |
mill ws  |
Main, opp. gate entrance to Mer- |
rick No. Mill ES ||
Main, ft. south of gate entrance
to Merrick No. Mill SsLudl’w Valve  
Main ft. north of Jackson Ws sd  
Main and Jackson IS E- (Hel. F.-e. I
Main, opp. Holyoke Paper Co.’s |
mill WS Mathews |
Main, ft. south of Beebe Web-  
ber Co. WS (Hol. F.H. |
Main and South nwt |
Main, ft. south of South ws |
Main, ft. south of South  hh
Main, at Ferry Koad ES  |
Main, ft. north of Meadow Ws |
Main and J. J. Prew's WS Mathews |
Main, south of Ws iek Fo Ei, I
Main at old Ferry Road Ws  |
Main, ft. north of Road to re
Brightside IWS Po ed
Main, at No. Ws aan
*Madison ave., ft. east of Northampton Chapman I
Maple and Prospect |{Hol. F. H. |
| |
*Steamer connection.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
@
Ss  \elsle
LOCATION e-s Make  Eis is) |s.si\s
 [S/S [SlS|s
|
Maple, between Prospect and
Fountain WS |Hol. F. H. I
Maple and Fountain SW  I
*Maple, ft. north of Lyman |W I
Maple and Lyman INE I
Maple at ES I
Maple and Hampden SE  I
Maple and Dwight NE U
*Maple between Dwight and Suffolk Ws  I
Maple and Suffolk SE I
Maple bet. Suffolk and Appleton |W I
Maple and Appleton SW |Pratt &Cady|  
*Maple bet. Appleton and Essex |E S|Hol. F. H. I
*Maple bet. Essex and Cabot Ws I
Maple and Cabot I
*Maple and Cabot SW I
Maple between Hampshire and
Sargeant ES I
*Maple and Sargeant |Chapman |
*Maple and Franklin Hol. F. H. I
Maple, ft. south of Franklin |ES I
Maple and Jackson  
*Maple, ft. north of South WS I
Martin, ft. north from Lawler jE t
Meadow cor. Main SW  
Miller ave.  ft.so. of Hampden |E ““  
Miller ave., at the end of pipe t
Morgan, soo ft. from Northampton NS |Pratt Cady I
Mosher and Bridge  IN WslHol. F. H. I
*Mosher at intersection of Main and Kace I
Mosher and West SE I
Myrtle and Cook NS I
Newton, ft. south of Appleton |S ‘“. I
Newton and Essex NE ““ I
Newton, ft. north of Cabot Ws “f I
Nonotuck, north end of pipe line |N I
Nonotuck and Highland ave. WS ‘“ i
Nonotuck and Fairfheld ave  I
Nonotuck and Lincoln I
Nonotuck and Hampden I
*Nonotuck, ft. south  of
Hampden WS Chapman I
 ee
*Steamer connection.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  w|/] o
. we Bla] ees
LOCATION Ge Make fERPElE
  gigi ‘lele
we lt! (Old 
Northampton, at the John Thorpe

homestead WS jHol. F. H. I
Northampton and Hampshire ter- s

race SE  I
Northampton and River terrace |N I
Northampton, at H. W. Cooley’s |W I
Northampton, at C. C. Hastings’  I
Northampton, at C. H. Heywood’s 'E |
*Northamptan, at Kennedy’s ‘FS |Chapman I
Northampton at A. D. Street’s /Hol. F. H. I
Northampton, at W.S. Loomis’ |W |
Northampton and Morgan NE I
Northampton, at Phil’der Moore’s ES  I
*Northampton and Fairfield ave. |N  
Northampton and Lincoln |W ““ I
Northampton and Allyn ES |
Northampton and Hampden I
Northampton and Dwight ws |
Northampton and St. James ave.  
Northampton, J. O. Cochran’s iW I
Northampton, ft. north of J. |

Cleary’s ES |
Northampton, G. P. Ellison's ES |
Northampton, ft. north of |

Ball’s corner ““ I
Northampton, front of Kall’s

house ES I
*Northampton, ft. north of P. |

Counihan’s ES  
*Northampton and Corser ES log
Northampton, ft. north of

Carlton Ww I
*Northampton, ft. north of '

Carlton I
Northampton and South SE “* I
Northampton and Myrtle NE a
*Northampton, ft. north of

Laurel ES  
Northampton, at E. H. Friedrich’s WS }
Northampton, opposite Wm. Van |

Tassell’s wv I
Northampton, at Oscar Ely’s WS ““ I
Northampton, Whiting Farm ES I
Oak and Dwight SW !

- Oak and Suffolk Nwe* |
|
*Steamer connection.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
I »o  |
‘  |s  
LOCATION vs Make  cy
 ‘a hee ites 
O ca A
: SIS
Oak and Appleton SW ie Foo.  !
Oak and Essex NW Reb |
Oak and Hampshire  oo
Oak, ft. north of Sargeant he oI :
O’Connor ave. opposite No.  WS Ke |
Oliver, roo ft. east of High NS Mathews a
Oscar and Peltiah IS /|Hol. F. H. |
Park and Cabot oe
*Park, ft. south of Cabot Wes  (ot
Park and Sargeant Mathews |
Park and jackson Hol. F. H. |
Park, opposite No. ES |Mathews I
Park and Canal IN WwW és (* if )
Parker and Hampden SW. |'Hok FH. |
Papineau and Temple IN aS A, |
Pearl, at north end of pipe line |
Pearl and Fairfield ave. rh |
Pearl and Lincoln Side.  
Pearland Allyn IS Ww  |
Pearl and Hampden IN a“ |
Pine and Prospect SE Mathews L
Pine and ILyman SW |Hol. F. H. }
Pine and Hampden Ws Mathews !
Pine and Suffolk ‘SW. |Hol. F. H. r| |
Pine and Appleton IN ny |
Pine and Essex IN|
Pine and Cabot ES I
Pine and Hampshire SW Pratt Cady !
Pequot and Bowers INE Hol. F. H. |
*Pleasant and Harvard IWS |
*Pleasant and Dartmouth it |
Pleasant and Yale Chapman |
Pleasant, at No. Wo lol Feith. +, |
*Pleasant, ft. north of High- |
land ave. ES (Chapman ‘ae |
Pleasant and Highland ave. NOW Itolehy He} ;
*Pleasant between Fairfield and |
Highland ave. ES Chapman I
Pleasant, to ft. north of Allyn WS Mathews  
Pleasant and Hampden WOW Nol bOHS:  |
*Pleasant, ft. north of Beacon |
ave. eS ry re id
Plymouth and Commercial ae Te |
Prew and Temple NW) Pratt Cady; |
Prospect and High Mo fai  |
Prospect and Walnut .
Quincy and Northampton Pratt Cady I
*Steamer connection.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  vv»
So |e |S) aie
LOCATION Make  S| RS begs
-  a
s fg  
|  fi he |e
Quincy ft. west of North- |
ampton Pratt Cady! l
Race at intersection of Main WS iHol. F. H. |
Race, ft. south of intersection !
of Main ES Wed sale de
Race and Dwight IN ae |
*Race and Dwight Is ie |
Race, front of Judd Paper Co. ke I
Race and Cross NE Fs |
Race and Appleton |S |
Race and Spring SE ae |
Race and Cabot NE ly
Race and tlamilton NE  |
Race and South Zs |
Railroad and Dwight SW |
Railroad and suffolk IN |
Railroad and Appleton IN as |
*Koss ave. and Maple I
Samosett and Bowers NE si  |
Sargeant and Summer ae |
Sargeant and Race IN E. |
Sargeant, southeast cor. Geo. R. fy |
Dickinson mill INS  |
Sargeant, between Ist and  nd |
level canals NS li |
Sargeant, east of Commercial INS ‘Pratt Cady) ,
Sargeant and High INE 'Hol. F.H, |
Sargeant and Chestnut \N |
*Sargeant and Pine IN as |
Sargeant and Bh NW |
Sargeant and Linden INE BP oa
Sargeant and Sycamore INE tj |
Sargeant and Magnolia Nw ss |
*South, at end of Elm ie BE.
*South, ft. west of Chapin iN ||
South, bet. Nos. and se om ye] |
*South, at Russell terrace IN as |
 South, at driveway east of SS|
Spring, ft. west of Main NS (Chapman  of a
Springdaleave.ateastendof pipe NS Hol. F. He |
Springfield upper road, at Day |
farm house \W Pratt Cady  
*Springfield upper road, Opp. Mt. |
St. Vincent Ws es |
Springfield upper road, at Mt. St. bs
Vincent INS [Hol FH. PD ol eae: S
| is. a”  
Steamer connection. 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
| le ele |
be o.| iG
LOCATION oS Make  -elele
  ed bre et eb |
O |S} ig  ,
. {+o |
*Springfield upper road, at Grif- |
fin’s corner Pratt Cady I
Springfield upper road, opposite |
Markert’s Ws ae
St. James and St. Jerome aves.  |Hol. F. H. I
*St. Jerome ave. and Dwight ““ |
St. Jerome ave., cor. Sargeant I
"Suffolk, ft. east from High |N |
Suffolk, ft. east from High SS I
Suffolk, corner High NS I
Suffolk, at alley bet. Maple and |
Chestnut NS {Pratt Cady) I
Suffolk bet. Chesnut and Elm I
Suffolk, bet. Elm and Walnut  |
- Suffolk, bet. Walnut and Pine jt
Suffolk, bet. Pine and Bh  
Suffolk, bet. Bh and Oak a
Suffolk corner Linden INE  |Hol. F. H. it
Suffolk ft. west of School NS |
Suffolk and Sycamore IN ““  |
Summer and Ely |
Summer and Cabot SW |
Summer and Hamilton IN WwW  
Summer and Jackson !Mathews |
Summer, rear New York Block |
Summer, rear New York Block #C “* |
Summer, rear New York Block (S |
Sycamore and Franklin SE  |Kennedy& !
*Taylor, at driveway to R. T. Sullivan |
Prentiss’ House WS /Hol. F. H. |
Taylor front of No. \WS !
*Taylor, ft. north of Lincoln (Ww Jon
*Taylor and Lincoln ‘NW |Chapman |
*Taylor, ft. north from north |
side Hampden IES |Hol. F. H. flog |
Taylor, front No. ES us Te |
*Fhorpe, near Hampden WS I
Union and Fountain iS hae |
Vernon and Main BS ph! Fo |
Vernon, east of Turn Hall NS |
View and Brown ave. IN “s |
View, at J. P. Sullivan’s Ss ie |
*View, ft. east of North- Ks |
ampton INS |
Walnut at No. ES 
Wadnut and Isyman SW (Mathews |
Watiut and Hampden SE /Hoel. F.H. —
*Steamer connection.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  |elels
LOCAILION Make fe  .
 Peer ed bea
,  |gglg
+ {+ nO 
Walnut and Dwight SE |Mathews |
Walnut and Suffolk iS po |
Walnut and Appleton |Hol. F. H. !
Walnut and Essex SW oy !
Walnut and Cabot IN an |
Walnut and !/ampshire iN ““ ly Walnut and Sargeant NE ot
Water, front of Valley Paper Co. |N S| I
Water and Appleton ‘SE  food
Washington ave. and Charles IS I
Washington and Harrison aves. |N Py
Washington ave. and Cook IN ““ |
Washington ave. and North- me |
ampton NE  I
West, ft. south of Mosher WS iChapman |
West and Canonchet park |W |Hol. F.H. tod |
Westfield road, front of Merrick’s NS |
— Westfield road, ft. west of |
Hillside ave. Ns  aan |
*Westfield road, on  -inch pipe, !
near Bray’s house |
Westfield road, north of Drew |
barn |W ‘Chapman ot |
*Westfield road, north side drive- .
W way to Holyoke Ice Co.’s barn |W ot :
est Glen, ft. west from co fy
Northampton NS Hol. F. H. tf
West side ‘frst level canal, bet. iKennedy |
Appleton and Dwight. ‘Sullivan :
West side first level canal, roo ft. |
south of Appleton Standard ar
West side first level canal, front |
of center Farr Alpaca mill aa oa |
West side first level canal, front |
Farr Alpaca mill Boiler house Hol. F.H. |
West side first level canal, front |
Buchanan Bolt wire mill on :
West side first level canal, bet. |
Cabot and Appleton Hercules  
Willow at No. NS tol. F. H. |
Willow and Brown ave. (ES  
*W illow at intersection of Laurel NS ot |
Winter and Appleton SE ‘Pratt Cady,  |
Worcester place and Commercial Hol. F. HH. |
‘Total,  cistern)  I
 #*Steamer connection.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
 -inch, one out,  .) Otis
 -inch,twoouts, .  -inch, twoouts, . ,.  
,  -inch, threeouts, OY  
G-inch, one ont,  ... Oa
 -inch, three outs,  ... i, ]
Cistern,  ...  
Total...  ...  
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CITY
OUTSIDE OF CITY HYDRANTS, TO DATE.
  stand pipe outs.
+  single hydrants.
  double hydrants.
  triple hydrants. .
  four-arm hydrants.
  eellar hydrant. |
 inills using perforated pipe sprinklers.
  mills using automatic sprinklers.
  fire pumps at mulls.

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE H.
METERS.
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION

Abbott, W. H. in ‘ean
American Pad and Paper Co. in |Worthington )
American Thread Co., Hadley;

Mills in |Worthington
American Thread Co., Hadley

Mills.  ++In |Worthington
American Thread Co., Hadley; ,

Mills in |Crown
American Thread Co., Hadley’ |

Mills |r in |Worthington
American Thread Co., Merrick’ ;

Mills in |Worthington
American Thread Co., Merrick:

Mills in |Worthington
American Thread Co., Merrick

Mills in| |Worthington
American Thread Co., Merrick,

Mills In |Worthington
American Thread Co., Merrick  

Mills in |Crown
American Thread Co., Merrick

Mills in |Hersey
American Thread Co., Merrick

Mills  in gos  |Union
American Thread Co., Merrick:

Mills in |Empire
American Thread Co.. Merrick,

Mills  im |Empire

| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
, :
|
| |
American Writing Paper Co., —
Albion Div. in Worthington
American Writing Paper Co., |
Albion Div. in |Trident
American Writing Paper Co., |
Beebe Holbrook Div. in Crown
American Writing Paper Co., |
Crocker Div. in Worthington
American Writing Paper Co,
G. R. Dickinson Div. In ‘Worthington
American Writing Paper Co., |
G. R. Dickinson Div. in Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,|
G. R. Dickinson Div. in |Worthington
, American Writing Paper Co.,| .
Mt. Tom Div. in| {Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,
G. C. Gill Div. in Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,,
G. C. Gill Div. In Crown
American Writing Paper Co.,
G. C. Gill Div. in |Hersey
American Writing Paper Co.,
G. C. Gill Div.  in ;Thomson
American Writing Paper Co.,
Holyoke Paper Co. Div. -. Im \Crown
American Writing Paper Co.,! less
Holyoke Paper Co. Div.  in) ;Umion
 American Writing Paper Co., |
Holyoke Paper Co. Div.  in Worthington
Amesican Writing Paper Co., |
Linden Div. in ‘Crown
American Writing Paper Co.,
Linden Div. in |Hersey
American Writing Paper Co.,| 
Linden Div. in |Empire
a

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
|
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
American Writing Paper Co.,
Massasoit Div. in |Worthington |
American Writing Paper Co.,
Mt. Tom Div. in |Hersey
American Writing Paper Co.,
Nonotuck Div. in| |Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,
Nonotuck Div. in |Hersey
American Writing Paper Co.,
Norman Div. in |Hersey
American Writing Paper Co., |
Norman Div. in| |Hersey
American Writing Paper Co., |
Parsons Div. in |Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,
Parsons Div. in {Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,
Parsons Div.  In |Worthington
American Writing Paper Co., ,
M. C. in |Crown
American Writing Paper Co.,
M. C. In |Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,
Parsons Div. |. in |Crown
American Writing Paper Co., .
Parsons Div. in |Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,
M. C. in |Crown
American Writing Paper Co.,
M. C. in |Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,,
Parsons Div.  in |Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,
M. C. in |Trident
American Writing Paper Co.,
 Riverside Div. in |Worthington

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
I
American Writing Paper Co., :
- Riverside Div.  in Crown
American Writing Paper Co., |

Riverside. Div. in| |Union
American Writing Paper Co., |

Riverside Div. rt in \Worthington
American Writing Paper Co.,

' Riverside Div. in| |Trident
American Writing Paper Co.,

Wauregan Div. in| |Worthington
Armour Co. in| |Thomson
Ball, C. E. in }|Crown
Barlow Manufacturing Co. in |Hersey ,

, Becker, Jacob in |Gem
Becker, Jacob In |Hersey
Beebe-Webber Co. in |Worthington
Beebe-Webber Co. In |Crown
Besse, Mills Co. in! |Union
Boston Maine R. R. in |Worthington
Brightside Nursery in XXX /|Crown
Brightside School in |Hersey :
Browne, M. C.  In |Crown
Brown Sellers in |Empire
Blanchard, Raoul  in |Union
Brueck, Charles In |Kmpire
Brueck, Charles in |Hersey
Burke, J. J., Main street in |Hersey
Burke, J. J., High street  In |Crown
Burnham, F. G. In |Crown
Buchanan Bolt Wire Co. in |Worthington
Cahill, Thaddeus in; |Worthington
Callahan, M. Co. In ‘Crown
Chase Cooledge in! |Worthington
Chemical Paper Co. in {Worthington
Chemical Paper Co. in |Crown
Chemical Paper Co. in |Hersey

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
Chemical Paper Co. in —
Church of Perpetual Help in| Flersey
Church of Perpetual Help in |Empire
Church of Precious Blood in |Hersey
 Church of the Rosary in ‘Worthington
Church, C. F. Mfg. Co. in .Empire
Carmody, P. F. |r in orthington
City Hospital  in |Crown
City Hospital in Crown
City of Holyoke, Almshouse in) ‘Trident
City of Holyoke, City Hall in ‘Worthington
City of Holyoke, Appleton :
Street School in |Hersey
City of Holyoke, Appleton, |
Street School in .Hersey
City of Holyoke, North Chest- |
nut Street School in Thomson
City of Holyoke, South Chest- !
nut Street School in Worthington
City of Holyoke, South Chest- :
nut Street School in Worthington
City of Holyoke, East Dwight |
Street School in |Hersey
City of Holyoke, East Dwight |
Street School  in! Hersey
City of Holyoke, Flm Street, |
School tr in! |Crown
City of Holyoke, Elmwood |
School in| Crown
City of Holyoke, Hamilton |
Street School in gttoo ‘Crown
City of Holyoke, Hamilton |
Street School in ‘Hersey
City of Holyoke, High School in; Worthington
City of Holyoke, High School, in ‘Trident
City of Holyoke, Highland !
School in ‘Crown

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
| :
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
City of Holyoke, Highland |
Engine House im j|Crown
City of Holyoke, High Street |
Engine House in |Worthington
City of Holyoke, Ward Bath
House im Lambert
City of Holyoke, Nonotuck)
Street School in |Thomson
City of Holyoke, Park Street
School in |Empire
City of Holyoke, Park Street
School In  |Crown
City of Holyoke, Bridge Street
School in Empire
City of Holyoke, Sargeant .
Street School In Worthington
City of Holyoke, Sargeant
Street School in |Hersey
City of Holyoke, School Street
School  in| |Crown
City of Holyoke, Springdale
School In |Worthington
City of Holyoke, West Street:
School in |Hersey
City of Holyoke, West Street
School in |Union ;
City of Holyoke, Elmwood Engine House in|} |Union
City of Holyoke, Emerald Engine House in |Crown
City of Holyoke, Main Street
Engine House in| |Hersey
City of Holyoke, Mt. Tom
Engine House  in Crown
City of Holyoke, Mt. Tom
Engine House in  crown

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
| |
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
City of Holyoke, Electric Li +I Hersey
City of Holyoke, Gas House in |Worthington
City of Holyoke, Gas Holder in |Worthington
Cleary, Dennis J. In |Crown
Conn. Valley Lumber Co. in |Worthington
Corriveau, Joseph in |! ‘Empire
Crafts, R. P. est.  in |Lambert
Cray, Patrick J. in |Hersey
Crocker-McElwain Co. mj] |Trident
Crocker-McElwain Co. in |Worthington
Cunningham, Margaret in! |Worthington
Curran Bros. in ‘Hersey
Dalton, M. R. in |Worthington
Dalton, M. R. in |Worthington
 Davis, C. B. J. A. in |Crown
Davis, C. S. in ;} Empire
Delaney, John Estate iM |Worthington ,
Delaney, John Estate im /Crown
Delaney, John Fstate in |Crown
Delaney, John Estate im] |Crown
Dietz, Richard in! Thomson
Dillon, Thomas In Worthington
Dillon, T. J. in |Crown
Donoghue, F. P. in Empire
Downing, David C. in ‘Hersey
Ducharme, Stanislaus In |Trident
Dufresne, Thomas in |Empire
Dufresne, Thomas im |Empire
Ely Lumber Co. rt in j|Crown
Empire Theatre in ‘Thomson
England, George H.  in |Union
Essex Paper Co.  in |Crown
Farr Alpaca Co. in ‘Worthington
) Farr Alpaca Co. in |Hersey
Farr Alpaca Co. in |Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co.  in |Crown
: |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
Ce
Farr Alpaca Co. In |Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co. in| |Hersey
Farr Alpaca Co. in} Worthington
Farr Alpaca Co. in |Crown
Farr Alpaca Co. In gto Crown
Ferguson, A. "| in| ,Worthington
Fitch, George I. in |Crown
Frank Octo Co. in; |Hersey
Ford Auger Bit Co. In  |Hersey
Franklin Paper Co. +in |Crown
Gagne, David  in |Hersey
Geraghty, James in |Hersey
German Lutheran Church Mm! |Crown
Germania Mills In |Worthington
Germania Mills in; Thomson
Gingras, A. F. in |Crown
Gilmore, Dwight O. in |Worthington
Goddard Machine Co.  in |Hersey
‘Guyott Bros. in Worthington
Hampden Glazed Paper Co. in Union .
Hartnett, John T. in se
Holyoke Automobile Garage im |Lambert
Holyoke Plush Co. in |Empire
Holyoke Machine Co. in |Crown
Holyoke Public Library Assn.|  in |! |Empire
Holyoke Steam Boiler Works in |Worthington
Holyoke MotorWorks Found’y, in |Worthington
Holyoke Bar Co.  in [Crown
Holyoke Base Ball Association, in —— (Crown .
Holyoke Street Railway Co. in Crown
Holyoke Street Railway Co. in |Worthington
Holyoke Warp Co. In |Worthington
Holyoke Warp Co. oy in |Crown
Holyoke Water Power Co. in |Hersey
Holyoke Water Power Co. in tg or |Worthington
House of Providence Hospital in |Hersey

.

REPORT OF WATER BUARD  
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
House of Providence eal in; |Thomson 
- House of Providence, Mt. St.  
Vincent In |Worthington
House of Providence, Old La- |
dies’ Home in; ,Hersey
International Steam Pump Co. in Hersey
International Steam Pump Co. in |Crown
Jasmin, Joseph  im Hersey
Jolly, J. W.  in ;Lambert
Jolly, J. W. in |Crown ,
Judd Paper Co. +m |Hersey |
- Judson Williams In |Crown
Koegel Chas. Son Mfg. Co., in ‘Lambert.
Lafrance, L. A. in Gem
Lafrance, L. A. im Empire
Laporte, M. J. in 'Hersey ;
Laporte, M. J. in Union
Laporte, Leon in Crown
Langwald, F. A. Est. Sg in ‘Union
Lynch, T. J. Co. In ICrown
Leavitt, Mrs. B. in ‘Crown
Lehmann August In  gt |Thomson
Livermore Martin In Crown
Lyman, C. P. in rersey
Lyman Mills in 'Crown
Lyman Mills  +In ,Worthington
Lyman Mills im we
Mackintosh,  ). Sons Co. -in ‘Worthington
Mackintosh, D. Sons Co. in |Hersey
Mackintosh,  ). Sons Co.  in ‘Crown
McCormick David in! Hersey
McCarthy, J. K.  in Worthington
McCarthy, J. K. -— Sg in (TInion
McCarthy J. K. in |Trident
Merrick Lumber Co. In Crown
Methodist Episcopal Church in ‘Crown
\ |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION

Monat, Henry in |Empire
Monument National Canadian |

Association inj} |Worthington
Moquin, Val in |Crown
Moquin Val in |Lambert
Murray, P. J. in |Worthington
National Blank Book Co. in| jg ii  |Crown
National Fiber Tube Works in |Union
Nelson Morris Co. in| |Crown
Newton Paper Co. mi] Hersey
Newton Paper Co. in| Worthiugton
Nugent, Edward F.  in Crows
O’Donnell, John T. in |Crown
O'Neill, Daniel J. in |!Empire
Orrell, William and Thomas yj in crown
Parsons Paper Co. |Crown
Perkins, B. F. Son in| 'Hersey
Pelland, Japhet in Worth
Plimpton, George A.  in |Worthington
Pope, C. Elmer Paper Co. In |;Crown
Potvin, A. Hormidas  In Empire
Prew, J. N. In |Empire
Prentiss, Brooks Co. in Worthington
Priest Utley In Sewn
Prentiss, George W. Co. in XV |Crown
Ranger, Casper in |Crown
Reardon, James J. in |Hersey
Reardon, James J. in |Empire
Russell, G. E. Co. in :|Crown
sears, L. Co. in |Crown
Sears, L. Co. in [Hersey
Second Baptist Church in |Worthington
Second Congregational Ch’rch, in !Crown

' Shannon, Kate J.  in 'Union

Shea, Michael F.  in |Empire
Shea, Thomas in Worthington

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
|

LOCATION SIZE NO. DESCRIPTION
om  
Skinner, William Mfg. Co.  in Gem
Skinner, William Mfg. Co.  in (Hersey
Skinner, William Mfg. Co.  in gost ‘Union
Skinner, William Mfg. Co. in Thomson
Skinner, William Mfg. Co. in ‘Worthington
Skinner, William Mfg. Co. +§ in Hersey
Smith, William  in Hersey
Springfield Breweries Co. in ‘Empire
Springfield Blanket Co.  In Worthington
Springfield Provision Co. In ‘Crown
St. Jerome Church in ‘Crown
Squire, John P. Co. in} |Hersey
Squire, Harriet A.  in |Empire
Swift Bros. in| |Crown Taylor-Burt Co. in |Union
Tilley, John Co. in Worthington
Turn Hall, Bridge Street  in Worthington
Turn Hall, Bridge Street  in Worthington
Turn Hall, Springdale  in, Worthington
Turn Hall, Springdale in| Worthington
United States Post Office in |'Worthington
United States Envelope Co. ‘Crown
Unitarian Church in| Union
Valley Paper Co. In Worthington
Valley Paper Co. In Crown
Westfield Brick Co. in Hersey
Whitcomb, M. H. in |Crown
Whitcomb, M. H. in |Hersey
Whiting Paper Co. in |Crown
Whiting Paper Co. in |Trident
Whiting Paper Co. in |Worthington
Whiting Street Estate in Worthington
Whiting Street Fstate in Worthington
Whiting Street Estate In Worthington
Whiting Street Fstate in Worthington
White Wyckoff Mfg. Co. in Worthington

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
|
LOCATION SIZE |. NO. DESCRIPTION

Whitmore Mfg. Co. in |Hersey
Winkler, Frederick A. in |Crown
Yoerg, K. J.  in |Hersey
Yoerg, K. J. in |Trident

Y. M. C. A. in gtogg j;Crown

Y. M. C. A. In |Crown

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

SUMMARY OF METERS IN USE.
aAlaelala lala la je
Oo Oo Oo oO Ss]
, MAKE £& £&/.€&  
oly! Ai wil alm) &
Crown.  
Worthington   
Hersey wo  §|  
Union   
Thomson   
Trident I  
Gem  
Empire.  
Lambert  
Total, go  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE I.
Inventory of Stock, Tools, ete., December .
PIPE.

  -inch, Ce feet

 -inch,  ... feet

 -inch, Ce feet
 -inch, Ce feet

  -inch,   feet
  -inech,  ...feet

  -ineh, Ck feet :
 ,-ineh, Ce feet

  -inch, Ca feet
 ,-inch, Ca feet
 ,,-ineh, Ce feet
  -inch, Coefeet
 -inch, Ca feet

SLEEVES.

  -inehoee ee

  -ineh,Ck  

  -incho  a

W cinch  kee ee

 -ineh, oo. oo. Cooke ot
S cinch   -ineh, oo. Coe  
+ -inch, Co  

OFFSETS.

Ww -inch, Coe 
S -ineh,  et ]
  -inech, 
$  -ineh, 

Y's.
ovineche  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
PLUGS.
 -ineh, |
 -inch, re |
  -imeh, wa I
  -imech,  ea
  -ineh, ea Yd .
  -inech, OO
  -ineh, eB
  -inch,  ...
  -inech, Oe
WW-ineh, wwe a
WA-inech,  ...
  -inch, |
 -imch, wea kG
\y-imeh, S
TEES.
  -inch,|
 -inch, |
  -inmch, we ee
  -inceh, |
  -inch, Ce  -inch, rr  :
 -inch, ee
 -inch, Cee kD
+x -inch, ee:
  -inch, Beee ee
 -inch, nn |
  -inch, Co
 -ineh, eB
BENDS.
 -inch  wee ee
 -inch!  ...  I
 -inech Ix, .  
W-inch&,  

  REPORT OF WATER BUARD

UNIONS.
  -inch,  ...  
 ,-inch, Cook kk kkee  
lW-inch,   -inch,  ...HR
-inch,  ...   

CROSSES.
  ww ed
  we eT
 we eT
 |...
x ... ee
  wk ee
  ...ee
  ...
 ,  ee

COCKS.
 -ineh stcp and waste, er i]
 -inch main stops, Ce-ineh main stcps, H
 l,-inch main stops, eet  -inch maim stops, Ck -inch main stops, ee
 -ineh main stops, -inch sidewalk stops, rr -inch sidewalk stops, rr  -inch sidewalk stops, re  ,-inch sidewalk stops, -ineh sidewalk stops, inch sidewalk stops,-inch stop and waste, 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD qt
REDUCERS.
  to  -inch, Ck kk
  to  -inch, rs |
  to  -inch, Coeeeee
  to  -inch, ee
  to  -inch, to  -inch, a
ELBOWS.
  -ineh,   I
  -inmech,-imch, .) hehe eI
  -inch,   CB |
  -imeh,  
  -imch, OhI
  -imch, ... wee
QY-inch, ... ee
WW-inch,   YD
ly-inch, Oe -inmeh, Ohh
 -inch, . 
Wy-ineh, ee    
SPLIT SLEEVES.
 -inech, wea
  -inch, aI
  -inch,   
  -inch, aI
  -inch,  ... ID
  -inch,  ...
  -inch,  we
 -inech, we BB,
} -inch, OO YD
  nch,  ... ee

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
GATES.
 -inch (Chapman), (
 -inch (Rensselaer), en
 -inch (Chapman), a
 -inch (Chapman), Soeee kD
 -inch (Chapman), Coeek -inch (Chapman), woeee ee
 -inch (Smith), week ee
 -inch (Smith), ee
 -inch (Smith), rr )
, HYDRANTS. .

‘d-inch way (Hereules), . 
Hydrant tops,  -way (Holyoke),  
Hydrant tops, l-way (Holyoke), rr
Hydrant bottoms (Holyoke), a
Small services boxes, Coe ek kk ee
Medium service boxes, .  d
Lead, pigs,  ...   

METERS ON HAND.

WORTHINGTON.
Kemeh,  ...   ONO.  
Se-Ineh,  ... aa CN.  
Sy-inch, eesti tsi‘ ettSCUWN.  
Tus-inech.   ON -ineh,  ... Ohh CN. -ineh,  ... ONO. -ineh,  ... ON.  
CROWN.

Sy-neho we eet aC Now  
Sqench,   NO  -inch,  took le  No.  -inch,  ... eesti ae CON.  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
EMPIRE.
l -inch,  ).   No,  EY, ,
 -inch, +... .. No.  -inch, .. No.  
: LAMBERT.
 -inch, SoeeeNO.  
THOMSON. |
  -ineh, ... .*. No.  lyj-inch, .  No.  
ll\y-inch,  No. -inch, . No.  
. UNION. |
Be-inech, §. No.  ,-inch, toeee ee)  No.  e-inch, toe    ) No.  -inch, toe we  )  No.  g-inch, teeeeNo.  -inch, Coe  NO.  
Sg-inch, + No,  
SUNDRIES. |
 -inch pump, engine, boiler  -inch Douglass pump
and fixtures Doo. Douglass sewer pumps
  hand force pumps gas engine
  forges steamer and fixtures .
  derricks tapping machines
  taps, speed lathe .
  engine lathes, lathe tools |
  lathe dogs fire pots

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
  kettles ladles
  steam rock drill bench drill
  upright drill man drill block
  twist drills, l-inch, straight twist drills, to  inch
shank twist drills, from to  
' shaper inches straight shank
  shape tools shaft straightener
' vise anvils
  grindstone double emery wheel frame
  saw vise combination saw
  hand saws pipe vises ;
  pairs of pipe tongs pairs platform scales
o large pipe cutters pairs pipe cutters
  rachet pipe cutter pipe taps, from  to  -inch
  taps, from to inch taps, from to inches
  die stocks and dies die plates,  to inch
  sets bit stocks and bits
  pipe tongs pair hydrant tongs
  gate wrenches hydrant wrenches
 stopcock wrenches tap wrenches
  monkey wrenches,  -inch monkey wrenches,  -inch
  Reed wrenches Stillson wrenches
  arbors nut arbors |
 -ineh chuck parallels
  iron bars iron wedges
  chain falls screw dogs
o sledges Wiard plows )
. Syracuse plow Belcher and Taylor plow
  road plow hay cutter
  shovels picks ee
  axes  grub axes iron rakes  brush hooks .
  hammers chisels |
  auger iron squares ,
  screwdrivers gasket irons
  squirt oil cans  -gallon oil cans |
 snow shovels table |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD desks lounge
  book cases stoves
» horses  business wagons
  trick wagons buggy
  two-seated carriage sleighs
S harnesses dD horse blankets
  light lap robes heavy lap robe
  storm blankets forks Co
  lanterns tons of hay  feet fire hose  -inch gate spindles.
 -inch gate spindles  -inch gate spindles
 -inch gate spindles  -inch gate spindles
 -inch gate spindle brass swivel point for stand
  brass reducers, to  -inch pipe
- brass reducers, to  -inch brass reducers, to l-inch  —
o lbs. unfinished brass stock pounds of steel  feet block tin pipe |
TABLE J. |
SHOWING AVERAGE NUMBER AND DESCRIPTION OF WATER TAKERS
NOW REGISTERED. |
Almshouse,   
Alpacamill, hee  
Automobiles,  ... 
Automobile stations, .  
Business colleges,. .  
Beer pumps, .  wt 
Baths, ek 
Barber shops,. . .. Do
Boarding houses,   
Brass foundries, .  
Blank book manufactories, Bee  
Blanket mill, ... aI
Brass window furnishings, Be Bl
Blacksmith and carriage shops, 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Boiler shops, .  wD
Beer bottlers,     
Bar works, .). Ok  
Bakeries, . ws. .* 
Broom manufactory, .  
Bilhard and pool rooms, ...  
Bit and brace works, .  
Belt shop,. ., 
Bowling alleys,   )
Box shops, .'.  
Band room, i.  ...  
Banks,  
Book binderies, .  ).  
Bonded warehouse, rr  
Cattle, .. Cee ke  
Cotton mills;  
| Chureches,.     
Chureh organs, . ..  
, Cafes...  ... wee  
Cigar manufactories, .  
Colored cotton,  Ue  
Cotton warp mill,  
Cement pipe works, ..  
Cemeteries,  ...'
: Club rooms,   
Club houses, 
Confectionery manufactories,.  
Carpet cleaning, . ..  
Cotton thread and twine manufactories, ...  
’ Chemical laboratories, wekk  
City Hall, er  
Convents, we  
Domestic science school, .  
Drug stores,  ... 
Dentists,  ... et  
Dining room, 
Dressmakers,  we  

. REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Dandy roll manufactories, ek  
Dye works, .) OO  
Envelope manufactories, ...  
Engines, .  
Elevators,.   
Express companies, .  
Electriclightstation, .  )
Electric car station,  
Electrie ear sprinkling, ..  
Electric ear hydrants,. ).  
Electric power station, ...  
Families, . 
Felt manufactory, Be  
Fourdrinier wire works, .  
Fountain and rotary sprinklers, ..  
Fire engine houses, ..  
Furniture warerooms, re  
Glazed paper works, .  
Greenhouses, .    
Gray nun’s schools, . |
Gate house,   
Gas house,   ee.  
Gas holder,  
Gristmills, Ck  
Gymnasiums,  .. dD
Hospitals,. eRe  
Hose,y.   TT
Horses, . 

' Hairdressers,  .) Oe  
Harness shops, . )
Houses of Providence, .  
Home for aged women, ...  
Hotels,  ...  
Halls, eS
Hydraulic clothes press, .  
Hydraulic copying press, .  
Iron founders, Ce  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD ,
Iee dealers, hh  
Kindergarten schools,. ,  
Lodging rooms, . .... 
Livery and sale stables, ,  
Lead pipe works, ;-  
Lithographer, rs  
Laundries, Se  
Lumber yards,  
Meat and fish markets,. .)  
‘ Machine shops,. .. .),  
Motors, hk  
Mercerized cotton manufactory,  
Nursery,  ... wea  
Offices,  
Opera houses,.  
Paper box manufactories,. .,  
Paper mills,  ... wwe,  
Paper pad manufactories,. .:. .,  
Public library,  ...) hh,  
Post office,  
Police court,  ... ek,  
Planing mills, CO  
Pork packing houses, .  
Printing offices, ... .O.O,  
Photograph rooms, . ..  
Plumbers, Be  
Plush manufactory, .), 
Passenger and freight depots,. ..  
Publie drinking fountains, See  
Parks, rr  
Publhie bath rooms, .) OO,  
Public bath houses, Ot  
‘Reading rooms,  .) OU a)
Restaurants,  ... a,  
Reed shop, .). a,  
Round houses, Be  
Stores, Be  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Soda fountain, . ..  
Shops, Ce  
Saloons,  ...ee  
Steam pump manufactory, Bee  d
Soda bottlers,. . .).  
Sereen plate works, .  
Shooting gallery, rs  
Silver platers, .  
Schoolhouses,    
Stand pipes,  DD
Silk mills, Ce  
Saw mill,.  
Sealing wax manufactory,. ...  .
Sausage manufactories, .  
Stone yards,  D
Steam stone cutting, .  
Steam stone polishing, Be  
Spring bed manufactory, .. |
Steam and gas fitters,. .  
Store houses,  
Street sprinkling carts, .  
Tanks for glasses,. .  
Tailor shops,  ees  
Tumbler washers,. .  
Tin shops, we  
Telegraph offices,  ...  
Telephone office, ...  
Testing flume,. . .. J
Urinals, hehe dBB
Undertakers,  
Valve and hydrant works, .,.. 
Vegetable sprinklers, .  
Water closets, weee ee,  
Wire mill, er |
Wire mattress works, .  
Wire weaving, Cee  D
Watering troughs, ne  )

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Woolen mills,. ee,  
Wood yards, ea,  
Water Power Co., rr  
Young Men’s Christian Association,  

TABLE K.
SUMMARY OF STAND PIPES.

Appleton street, near Deane Steam Pump Co,  
Appleton street, near Main, ... 
Ball’s cornor, near Bh, . 
Brown avenue, near South street,. Sd
Brown avenue, near View street,. 
Bh street, near Appleton, ..  
Bh street, near Hampden,. ... #d/ 
Bowers, street, corner Samosett, Jd
Bridge street, corner canal (Ward  ), 
Bridge street, corner canal (South Holyoke), td
Bridge street, south of Sargeant (South Holyoke),  
Bridge street, near No.  . Jd
Canal street, near Lyman, . 
-Center street, corner East Dwight, 
Center street, near Lyman, . JI
Chestnut street, corner Sargeant, re |
Chestnut street, corner Cabot,  
Chestnut street, corner Prospect,. #dJI
Cabot street, near Race, .) .etCtwstsi‘‘CzWD
City yard—Commereial,. .  
Cabot street, near Cabot street mill, .. 
Dwight street, near Nonotuck, .. JI
East street, corner Hamilton, JI
Elm street, near Suffolk,. .)h.hUU 
Essex street, near Maple, |
Front street, corner Fountain,  
I{ampden street, corner Nonotuek, J
Hamilton street, cormer Canal, # 

REPORT OF WATER BUARD  
High street, at City Hall, ns |
Jackson street, near Holyoke Paper Co.’s mills,  
Linden street, cormer Bh,. # 
Locust street, near Cabot, re |
Main street, near South, . JI
Maple street, near Hampden,. JI
Maple street, near South,. . |
Meadow street, near Main (Springdale),. .. 
Northampton street, near Home School,  
Northampton street, near Heywood’s,  
Northampton street, near Cooley’s, #J 
Northampton street, near Gilman,  
Nonotuck street, near Fairfield avenue,  
Park street, corner Coghlan’s Boiler works,  
Pine street, corner Dwight, .  
Pine street, corner Hampshire,  
Quincey, at Northampton street, # 
Race street, at F.C. Steele’s,.  
Railroad street, corner Appleton, rs |
School street, near Dwight, . 
Sargeant street, near Maple,.  
Sargeant street, near Park, . Jd
South street, near Northampton,. Jd
St. Jerome avenue, near Sargeant street, #d|
Taylor street, near Hampden,   .
Washington avenue, corner South street,. JI
Willow street, near Laurel, ett

DD

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY POND.

January  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  st, ft. in;
 th, ft. in. |

February  th, ft.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in;
 th, ft. in.

March  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th,
  ft. in.

April Ist, ft.;  th, ft.;  th, ft.;  d, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in. :

May  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th,

. ft. |

June  rd, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.

July Ist, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.  nd,
  ft. in.;  th, ft. in.

August oth, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.  n.;  th,
  ft. in.

September  nd, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.:
 rd, ft.;  th, ft. in. |

October  th, ft.;  th, ft. in.;  st, ft. in.  th,
  ft. in.

November  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
oth, ft. in.

December  nd, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 rd, ft. in.;  th, ft. in. )

Average height for the year, ft. in.

Height of overflow, ft. in.

|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE

WATER WORKS, DECEMBER .

Population by school census of |

Date of construction,  .

Works owned by the city.

Source of supply—two ecntiguous natural lakes, and storage’.
reservoir, three and one-half miles from the city, two
mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the southwest branch cf the Manhan river—intake reservoir at
Southampton.

Mode of supply—gravity.

FINANCIAL.
RECEIPTS. :

A. Waterrates, fixed,  

B. Water rates, metered, . 

C. Total receipts from water,  

D. Serviee pipe... eet  

E. All other sourees, ...  

F. Gross receipts,  

G. Cash balance January   

| 
EXPENDITURES.

AA. Management and repairs,  

BB. Servicesand repairs,  

CC. Running expenses for $ 

DD. Interest on bonds,  we e—SS—SCid ,,  .

EE. Total maintenance,  ... 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
FF. Commissioners of Sinking Fund City of Holyoke, taxes, woe  ) 
GG. Materials, labor, ete,   
HH. Cashon hand andinbank,. ..  
II. Balance toconstruction,  
$ 
| CONSTRUCTION.
Balance, Coeee) 
JJ. Extension main pipe, 
KK. MHydrants, re 
LL. High Service reservoir, ..  
MM. Rock Cut canal and gatehouse,  
NN. Meters, ...  
OO. Land purchase,  
$ 
PP. Depreeiation,  ... 
W.. Net eost of works to date,  
X. Bonded debt, 
Y. Value of Sinking Funds, Dee. .
CONSUMPTION.
 Population, school eensus,  ...  Estimated population on hne of pipe,  Estimated population supplied,  .) Total gallons consumed,  ...) 
d. Passed through meters Passed throuech meters )
 Average daily constunption, gallons...  Gallons per day to each inhabitant...  Gallons per day to each consumer ),  Gallons per day to service tap,  Lovl

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and cast iron
and lead lined.
 From one-half inch to thirty )
inches. |
 Extended, feet large.
 Discontinued, Cee none
do. Mains,  -inch and upwards, ...  miles
‘ Temporary mains, less than inches, .., miles
 ‘Total length of distribution,  .. miles
 Number of leaks in city,  Fomer line, Cost of repairs permile,. ..  Hydrants added, Hydrants now in use (public), ...  
and private hydrants, (see table G.)
 Stop gates added, ..  Stop gates now in use (see foot of table E.),  Stop gates less than  -inch, ..  Number of blow-off gates, ...  Range of pressure on main office, per day ,
and night, to pounds.
Main street, per day and night, to
  pounds.
 Stand pipes added,  ., none
 Stand pipes now inuse, ...  (Gates repaired,  ... Gates replaced,  ... ”

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
- SERVICE, .
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, east iron,
lead lined, tin lined and galvanized.
 From one-half to  -ineh size of service.
 Leaks,  Cleaned, re  Frozen service thawed out,  ...  Replaced services,  ...)  
)  Extended (estimated), .. feet
 Discontinued, Total now in use (estimated), re feet
 Services added, re  Number now in use,  ...  Average leneth of service,  ... feet
 Average cost of serviee, ... Meters added, Be VO
 Meters discontinued,  ...  Meters. repaired, Boe Meters now in-use,  he  Motors and elevators diseontinued, .— none
 Motors and elevators added,  ...  Motors and elevators now In use, ...  Gates repaired,  Hydrants replaced,  ...  ...  Hydrants discontinued,  ... none
 I[vdrants repaired,  Sidewalk boxes repaired, 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD.
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO
DECEMBER .
WATER COMMISSIONERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE WORK—
ELECTED BY THE TOWN OF HOLYOKE.
WiuuiAm B. C. PEARSoNns, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February .
JOHN DELANEY, clected March term expired
February ;
JOUN E. Cuass, elected March resigned March,
 .
DENNIS Hiaains, elected March term expired
February .
 JOEL RUSSELL, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .
J. P. BuckKuanp, Clerk of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .
L. P. Boswortu, successor to John E. Chase, eleeted
March term expired February .
C. W. RANLET, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.
ENGINEERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF
WORKS.
Messrs. SuHEDD Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting
engineers.
E. C. Davis, eneineer and superintendent.
- Davis ELLSwortH, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis,
May,  .
Mosks STEVENS, pipe inspector.

| REPORT OF WATER BOARD

WATER COMMISSIONERS ELECTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL.

J. P. BucKLAND, elected February term expired
February .

DENNIS Hiceins, elected February term expired
January .

JAMES G. SMITH, elected February deceased July
  .

J. A. SULLIVAN, elected February term expired
January .

JAMES F. ALLYN, elected February term expired
January .

C. H. HEywoop, elected July term expired January .

. TIMOTHY Merrick, elected January term expired January .

Maurice Lyncu, elected January term expired
January .

JAMES E. DELANEY, elected January resignation
accepted January .

Moses NEwTON, elected January term expired
January .

JAMES J. CURRAN, elected January resignation
accepted February .

Martin P. Conway, eleeted January term expired January ,

CHARLES D. Couson, elected January term expired February .

Joun J. Subiivan, elected January term expired February .

Thomas F. GREANEY, eleeted January term expired February .

Josep A. SKINNER, elected January term expired February .

REPORT OF WATER ROARD  
Maurice Lyncu, elected January deceased January .
ARTHUR M. FRENCH, elected February .
Huey McLEay, elected January .
MICHAEL J. DoyYLe, elected January .
OFFICERS OF THE HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.
Moses STEVENS, Superintendent, appointed February  ,
 term expired April resigned.
DANIEL HEYwoop, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October sucded by E. M. Bolton.
KE. M. Bouton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned.
E. P. Cuark, Registrar, appointed July resigned
January .
J. C. SULLIVAN, Registrar, appointed January resigned January .
A. E. Pickup, appointed February .
JOHN D. Harpy, Superintendent, appointed May .
E. M. Bouton, Inspector, appointed July service .
terminated March .
J. F. Cueary, Inspector, appointed March .
T. E. S ivan, Inspector, appointed March .

| "
|
Signized by Google

ANNUAL REPORT .
OF THE
OF THE

CITY OF HOLYOKE

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOV.  ,
Sao Ne ,
eo
HOLyoOKE, MAss.
M. J. DoyLe PRINTING Co.
 .

.
; '
. .
:
F
. ,
F
. ao a
: Fi ,
 md ‘
.  :
t
a .
‘. t: 
'
:
'

s '
‘ .
“
, .
* ’
; i
'
; ,; |
. .
e
.
e
.

t
w
:
a .pts and
fo id form
! submit
 City’s
  nay not
v) and exfe ‘om the
ob onsider &§ les and
, but the
a solutely
kd to be
| uide for
  is that
fal e, police
od ‘ade, as |
| ded ain that
d uble of |
Pa ye very
a ‘ourtesy
fe] all the
A *parture
ditor.

|
Signized by Google

ANNUAL REPORT .
OF THE
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOV.  ,
. Sa Ne ,
ON Aoirome ny
Ohi  “SOY
HoOLyoKE, Mass.
M. J. DoyLeE PRINTING Co.
 .

‘ +
f “oy  
‘  o

|

|

' '

, :
| :
, (
LJ
. zz

on )
is
YL
DQ
c .
s and
ba orm
de mit
a. ty’s
om
y |
g ox
the
oO ler
a .
fe) and
‘o the
a ‘ely
te
QO, be
 for
Q, hat
Py lice
| as |
co hat
U
£ of
rs ery
aq, esy
U the
QA ‘ure

* .
Ly r
- .
a
. .
*
 
o
e
.
a

ANNUAL REPORT OF
CITY AUDITOR.
To the Honorable the Mayor and Aldermen:
GENTLEMEN |
I beg to present the annual statement of the receipts and
expenditures for the fiscal year in the manner and form
suggested by the National Municipal League. also submit
Such other matters pertinent to the financial side of the city’s
business as believe may prove of interest.
The figures presented in the Schedules following may not
be strictly accurate, as the manner in which receipts and exPenditures have been reported to me vary so widely from the
rmethods adopted in this, their new presentation, that considerzable research was required to make out the, new schedules and
,transfers and duplications may make some changes, but the
k-esults are practically right and the cash balances are absolutely
correct. believe this new form of report will be found to be

f much value and can be made to serve as valuable guide for
future appropriations. To my mind it’s best feature is that
wherein is shown just what it costs to run our schools, fire, police

and other departments without being required to wade, as |

heretofore, through the report of several boards to obtain that

result.

With the co-operation of the various boards the trouble of
getting out similar report for the current year will be very
materially lessened and its .accuracy assured. The courtesy
,  always extended the auditor’s office by the members of all the

Commissions makes their co-operation in this new departure
a certainty.
Respectfully submitted,
D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—I
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS OF THE FIscaL YEAR.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT.

Cash Ralance at beginning of year..... .................. 
Receipts during the year...    
Disbursed during the year.... .. ees  
Excess of Receipts ..... . e   en   
Cash balance in Treasury Department at end of

JOO  ce cese tees cect tescvseeseseeseene 

WATER DEPARTMENT.*

Cash balance at beginning of year...... 
Receipts during the year ...... ....... 
Disbursed during the year...  
Excess of disbursements..........  
Cash balance of Water Department at

end of year. 
Total cash balance of City Treasury

and Water Department................. 

*This Department, operating under special act of the Legislature, is
carried on independent of the City Treasury.

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A-—II.
GENERAL EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR THE
FiscaL YEAR.
Separated under the four heads, “Ordinary”, “Extraordinary”,
“Trust Funds”, and “Temporary Accounts”.
, Receipts Expenditures
i
FT ne.
Ordinary, (Operation and Maintenance) |

(See Schedule A-IIT.) ... ............' , 
Extraordinary, (Construction, etc.)... ....., 
Trust Funds, (See Schedule A-V.).... ...  
Temporary Accounts, (See Schedule A-VI.) ........   

$  
|

Ordinary has relation only to current revenues and “running expenses”
(operation and maintenance), and does not include receipts or payments on
accounts of loans, nor on account of permanent construction or other capital
accounts.

Extraordinary has no relation to current revenue or running expenses,
but does include receipts and payments on account of loans, and for permanent construction and other capital accounts.

Trust Funds include all receipts and payments of the City when
acting as trustee or as agent for funds, trusts, special deposits, etc., which
cannot be used except for particular and specified purposes.

Temporary Accounts include all receipts and payments of the City
which are simply journal items, duplications, or items paid, temporarily held
and paid out again.

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A-III.

EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR THE YEAR,
ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY, GROUPED ACCORDING TO
FUNCTIONS.

ORDINARY.*
| Receipts Expenditures

General Administration ......... ........... keccecns cevesnces eensaes  

Public Safety (Protection Life, Health and Property)...............  

Public Charity  ...  ...    ccescec ccecscenteus  saveeae causes  

Public Highways and Sanitation........... .. ... e   ec  eens 

Municipal Enterprises............. .......... ses cocescoescecnc  

Public Education, Libraries, ete. ..............c cc  ecesesee s   .

Public Recreation ....... ..... .. occec  ececcecceccnsce uaesuces  

Putlic Indebteduess (Transactions during year)................ ....[ cesc ceseesee ees  

Public Interest  ...  cele  ec cnnenesneer sen ass  

Taxation..........  eneaaccncse ce cucaccceccssess  

Special Assessment............. ..  cscs nce sence cesscessese eascecs  

Trust Fund  ... ce cc  nescecccesetecten uesee coececssa  ,§ 

Temporary AcCCOoumt............ ecceccsccec es ccs c ssacs  

$ 
e
EXTRAORDINARY .*
. Receipts Expenditures

General Administration ......... .. ......cec ccecn  cc enenecsensa es casesecer seces 

Public Safety (Protection Life, Health and Property)......  ...) ...... eesces :  

Public Charity ..... ... ... beed saeaeccaenece nesnn seeseeso nees seeteeseeserereesens  

Public Highways and Sanitation................ ... ecc cecs s 

Municipal Pnterprises  ...  ec c  ses nsenees   :

Public Education, Libraries, etc. ......... ...  ss sc  

Public Recreation...    cc   cecrcucsce ecese sececcecsececustes  

Public Indebtedness (Transactions during year)....................  |...   

Public Interest ........        ccecceccesccnec sscacesss  |.’

TANxatiOn oo... ecenee seenececce eccecscncescescetscesctss| a cceseseesee| sesecesencesesas  

Special Assessment ......... cc  ee ecescce escu ecenca| saesecescesscesee|  cecsesscecseeree 

Temporary Accounts................ se rcaenensenancesensnersenatataccacscaces ctecenencensctacentas ceseasasn  tenets Z

|  
* For Details see Schedule A-IV.
. a

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
, SCHEDULE A-IV.

EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS, APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES,
DIVIDED INTO ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY, ARRANGED
BY DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS AND GROUPED ACCORDING
TO THEIR FUNCTIONS AS IN THE PRECEDING SCHEDULE.

I. GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
| Receipts. Expenditures.
, {
. Extra- Extra| Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary

a i

  Mayor's Department ............... |...   once ec s

  Aldermen, Clerk, Messenger

City Messenger’s Department....... |o........-ces : [oc      |oo.cc.ec  .
Clerk of Committees. ............    [ecccec  coe |aesnes |...
Al'dermen's Expenses ..........    [ec necc   eenen caeenes ee
City C'erk’s Department...............  Foe oo. 
. Recording Births, Marriages and
Deaths ... ........  ...  ec  cc    s oo.  seen oo... cec   
  Law Department
City Solicitor. .... ...  ec scc cece|s aecevc |...  
Legal services, other attornmeys...... ......... -..c |ecec neen ens 
Litigation expenses .....................  ...  es  see  
: Finance
Auditing Department................ ..  [eccec     snscecnneeseens |...  
ASSESSOIS.  ... cc    e eence.  [ eaccss  !  sececuceuews |...  
Treasurer ........... ece ec   [ererecacoes| ccensseseacesence: Joo. 
Tax Collector........  ..     ees  ...    Joo.
Sinking Fuod Officials. ........  |e     neces   ees seene  oo... cc     
  Elections
Election Expenses, City Clerk......  |...  Liccec  cocoons  se .
‘ Registrars of Voters.........  |. eces s|ee scceu   Jo...  cease
‘* Polling places, rent, etc.... |...   ccec sees E,  oc .
en Col) Ss cs Ce [........ . cae
  Miscellaneous
License Commission........ ..... [ee e: coesccecscecs oon.
Printing, adver ising sundries... |.........  ... [oe   
.  

  City Hall |

Care and Maintenance.................. |...    es  

 Repairs ......... cc  ese   eccnee ccucnaee cosecsees|ecessecenensscnae [ sesee seae.  
Lighting .........   cectecsec   lt cnteceles se BS -Q  bocce  
  . 
Total General Administration................  Jo!)  
aei! .

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A-IV.— Continued.
.  PUBLIC SAFETY. (Protection of Life, Health and Property)
| Receipts Expenditures
a |
Ordinar Extra- Ordinar Extra| ordinary ordinary
ee
  Police Department |
Maintenance... ... ccesccesees  eens vocecct  cet rees |  Joo  
Fines—Police Court ........ ...  seetc neenees cseteter setts rp cenenes sconce
Fines Hampden County, Sheriff... ece c  essac res lessees en rienes
Sundry others .............::::c i    | cess rete cttenee| cette  neres
; aan aon a
| ,  |
  Fire Department ;
Salaries  ... cesses seer   ccasesceaseeseclaeensees   
General Expenses .......................   see Jo...  
Elmwood Hook and Ladder Truck  ....... ... .. ..) cceccesec ) ecuces suse 
Kepairs, Buildings} Board ......... [ae vevssecseesses|  Q.  |occesesesees
Wuel oo...Of   [ bes bec  nec  |... coerce:
Light...   Public ce   cacs  T,TOS.  oo. see 
Water ...........- Works  ... [ee cy ore [oo  
|  -  Health Department |
|
Salaries occ   Henecaegcentes [eseenentacaeanees JjOFONZ [o.ceres res
General Expenses ............... ..    ca  ! GD.   cec  .
Inspector Milk and Vinegar. ........ |.      oY i.) OY |: eres
Inspector Provisicns, and Animals ...........  ...    (oo.  s
Small Pox Cases .............. cess  BO |...     |ocecs seerees
Hillside Hospital—care...... sesstesisertirts ane bavec venee [rcs
  |
| |
  Inspectors |
Superintendent of Bui dings.......... Pes pecrier | |....c.. cr 
Inspector of Plumbing ..........-..... Se[....  
Sealer of Weights aud Measures. .. poem renee laseacecscesa ce| |... ee
| :
  Armory, Sundry Buildings |
Sundry Euildings: .
Repairs... ....... Board ........ serorteassenese| |... --.ec  
Fuel eeveetet res of ve eces lvecevecerseces|caauceaenceseceaes GODS        s
Light.  ... fF Publie oc. sessevens Jeseeseetneressecea| |.ce es coc nee
Water. Works .......    cenalo  ssee see o.......    
—— —— -—    
t
}  
Se +
‘Total Public Safety.  ...  . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A- V.—Continued.
- PUBLIC CHARITY.
 
| Receipts Expenditures
P Extra- “Extra| Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
{
  Insane |
' .
Outside Aid, Care of Insane.........  pone  |...
  Almshouse |
City Farm........... .   [r  sses ] |ec cec 
Repairs Board of ..................  [ocreteetesstte esc  
Fuel Public ...........      neces   ! |...   ee
Light Works. ... ce ete   ener [pete ren |......cecc 
  Out Door Relief |
Salaries .........  ...     enee|rocrtester : Lise set .......    
General expenses, (less care cf
IMSANE) oo.     |. ee
City Physician.............. ... ...:  pec cea s|ccenc sees |. .. ..   ees
|  -  Miscellaneous |
  Refund  ... oo... ces ... cec 
Military Aid............ ...c   ...   |...  
Soldiers Kelief........  ...    cec  sce ce caeensaes |..-....  - 
|  
Total Public Charity............. .......    

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A-IlV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC HIGHWAYS AND SANITATION.
| Receipts Expenditures
‘ -Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary

  Administration
Engineering Department..............  oo...  ]  occ   cn 
Board ot Public Works—Salaries.. ...............c nes |.........  .
Supt. of Streets—Sa aries.............     eens fesseene     es ....... .  
Office Force Salaries. ...........c    ecs cc |ecen esec ceas |o..... cc ec s
General Expenses. ......... ....    lL ec c  Lecc ces s vec c s

 

  Highways
Opening.Grading and Widening Sts (.................  |. N, 
Maintenance.. .............cce     ce |. ae. .o..... cn s
Crosswalks'..........cc.cc nc [ec see s co sepenescn oo... ce e seas
FOreStry .......     cn    [ ter ss [ec rens s .  c 
Service lransfers............... ..   - 

  Street Paving, Macadamizing........  .........ce.   seen : [erescanen  

  Bridges, Maintenance .......  ...  ec  Gicce te    |e.

  Street Cleaning.............. cec  fes  sec    [ec  oo...  

|
l |

  Snow Removal |
Street Railway Tracks .............  [  cc   eenec caees seotetesees s
Streets and Sidewalks. .............. .     ee [c      : oe  

; TO —
  . 

  Sidewalks
Curbing and Sidewalks—new work ........ .. ..        §, 
Repairs and Maintenance.... ........ |acec  |... ec  
Snow Removal.... ...            er   ees  §. .......  
Service Transfer  ... ec  ce cence ce  yy oe

 , 

  Street Lighting

Lighting Streets....   cec [erereesscst ] | s
 
: }

  Street Sprinkling |
Maintenance...............      OO.       .§  ses    
WALLED occ  ce cnc nce teens ce ec re  fess seas) seas s  ece coccn

  |
Carried Forward....... .......  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  !
SCHEDULE A-IV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC HIGHWAYS AND SANITATION.—Continued.
 Aoao" ejeNnNn danan vw®— oes  ,
. |
Receipts Expenditures
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
Brought Forward................     Refuse—Collection and Dispo- |
sal
Collection Ashes...................  esses  ss | |ocetsasntes
Collection House Offal................. POO o..eccec  .
  |
. |
  Sewers |
Maintenance.. ............... ....... e- |rrs tatetss c s
Construction... ..........  ek       ces     -ees . nes  
Service Transfer ................... ...see[eccaccsesee
 -  Miscellaneous |
Damages to Persons and Personal
Property... ........... eccec see [ce  ce |s nsen  ........ee  
Water Rente, Service Transfers... LY Oo) ns es Fs
‘  
oy pi a. re
Total, Public Highways and Sanitation..  . 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR

SCHEDULE A-IV.—Continued.
 MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISES.
! Receipts Expenditures
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordiuary

Be po foo.

  Water Works Comstruction.......... ..cec ci    fice ce er   tee   es veccsanses.| 
Maintenance.............. . ee   focsee cette tees IED ... ee
Rates -. .....   etter IBINN, occ    fec cenee ec cn  ot  cnere nears
Sundries .......... ... cc    cette  ocetee teen [eereenentes cos

. Interest, Bank Deposits, Meters .. oe    §O.  ee
Taxes...       wedi seveesnes| -BRyBS Feo ene
)  
|

  Gas Plant occ cceccsesesal ce sescecces neesseesenenss
Extensions.................   oe sves nene   w.  
Interest (accrued). ................. bit aee [ocec s
Operation and Maintenance. .......  [..... e. menianitn .......  s

| |

| |

  Electric Light and Power |
Plant pc errtee lareerertnesten vevsceverens
Extensions................ cesses   es  ccsees ! bocce  !
Interest (accrued denc cc fe s  |... erste
' Operation and Maiotenauce.......... ne pereete ......-. ere
| —— ees es  ene |——— -——
|    

  Holyoke and Westfield RB. B. |

Dividend ................ Leven caeseev senes cetseesesee  ae spon becec s
| |
t
Total, Municipal Enterprises.................    
— on  en —

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A-IV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
| Receipts Expenditures
. Extra- Extra| Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary

| |

  Schools |

ad (
County of Hampden, Dog Tax......  cecst eleonssnsesanensee
Tuition. oo. t be  r    es
: Salaries—Teachers.... ...... . . [ecce s bocesesees . ... .

“ Supt., Clerks and (Office |

; ER PENSES  ...  t   cons  serene |. ec  
* Janitors and special help. |o........ ... cc | |v 
‘ Truant Officers census. |.............. .] cecces  (o.....     
Text books and suppiies....... ..c  ceccecetsececl ceses ss !  accec cecc s
Rentals oo...e esscesseeseses essse [e  esess ns  ,§  oo. .    s
Fransportation....... ...........ses  cesecs  Leaesecceaes  jo ..coc 
Care of Pruants......... .... ss  [ enccec ! cev tscnnrees Css
Sundries  ... oces  sec  seatec sreceseey| scaseen be ces reces
Ward Two School .......   cec  cave   ..... 
Repairs Board   cercetes [escets ben ter renees TG OUI je t s
Fuel Of ciiteeterttecsseessee [o sees ees leceseseese ees.| sen s
Lighting Public  e  fec scet : veeucassaee! GO  focces 
Power Works oc cecreretees [oc seeress c tenes ooc cc s
Water vece s ns coseesecs|cec acerence UjQB.Q  cce  cc 
 ,  Library Ce aa  |... . ec   ec s

oo |
ns (nn
Total, Public Education.... .. ............ce e.    

 REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A-IV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC RECREATION.
Receipts Expenditures \
. Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Parks
) Lighting. ......   ssessc esee [ocesccseescsecssee]coees secesceses|  |ocsseseert
Riverside Park... occ     es  .esee|s serscec -|  ‘
Construction and Improvements... |.............. .. [escs  : |o.cec rees
Maintenance. ...... .......cc   cc es fec sccs  [ee s s |..... -er 
" General expenses. ................    s [t aeerc es |...- e-er res
  |
$ .  Baths................ cc  wees “  |...es rett
  Celebrations |
\
Memorial Day................ ...... veustaserecsecases|coseceaceaces |..... 
| :
Total, Public Recreation.......................   
| --- ------ bee 
}

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A-IV—Continued.
PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS (Transactions during the Year.)
Receipts Expenditures
. Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Receipts from Loans, not including temporary Tax Loans
Highways, Sewers and Sidewalks
Bonds  ...  c scc  [sesececes   ... cc ccsc  |sc s
Gas Electric Light Bonds......... |...... ... ec e]   cc  sccuca[ecccescsecnes
School Bonds. ...............cc  se [eccsccepecs s| |...  eucsee cesc ces ree
  |
  Premium Account
City Bonds  ... ceccec cenec laseccs s  oar cecce cennae| ceteet cnere ee
Gas Electric Light Bonds..........  ........-....e-e Q-QL |e. ceccecceccse|co rens nens
  Payments to Sinking Funds
From Appropriation................... |...  ... .ccec 
" Water Department.............. one   pec  ecses|  jOBOL |rc  vocc 
:   Direct Payment of Matured
Debt.
(Not from Sinking Funds but from |
tax levy direct) City Debt... (  [iccses | |e  ces s
From Sinking Fund, City Debt... |... ecsec | .. s
Gas and Electric Debt  ... |e ccec c| eues  |.........sec 
“  |
Total Public Indebtedness.....................   |

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A-IV.—Continued.
QQ. PUBLIC INTEREST.
Receipts Expenditures
. Extra- ExtraOrdinary or dinary Ordinary ordinary
ee
; |
  Interest upon Funds on Deposit |
Interest on Bank Deposits..........  |.......  scence    
“e from Water Dep’t............ ....    eceses [ee cenncecne eens |a rserenen ®
‘€ Sundries... ...  ...     .c.cec cenees ee
  Interest on Taxes...................... ...e  . nn
  Payment of Interest upon Debt ee
Upon Funded Debt (other than |
Water andG. E. Plante... foc  cc ce [eccens s|  eevee
Upon Temporary Loans, ........ .....       c [occ ecscecseeuesess [eseessereene
‘€ Gas and Electric Plant Bonds j..............c.cc)ceccec  cec  [c cec ne pene   TT
Water Bonds... |i  sce ecec | ce   eocn ee
“* to Sinking Fund...  [oc cec [ec c s| Fo.  ere”
  Miscellaneous Interest |
Accrued Interest ...................ccese cnr
 ||
Total Public Jorerest....... ....c.c     )
{  
oe Oo   —EZ 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A-IV.—Continued.
 TAXATION.
area SSS ——woror
| Receipts Expenditures
}nee
| '
: Extra- Extra| Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
|
  Taxes, Real, Personal, Poll
Taxes  .......ce ec ser  seasesescsessnsas[ersseesesesseeses dececsacceses
Other YealS...............c  cenaQU.  cc      cetensesecs rs s
AbalemMents oo...    e   cet c ense! senescent   oe    
Refund of Excess Taxes............... octets cemnnereces o eseac s
|   |
  Other Taxes (except Fran- |
chise Taxes) |
Corporation Tax.............. ce   ec |  |...    
Bank Tar...  .       ees   .....e  
Excise lax, Stores.  ... Leeteteetenee  aees Lease ae
$  ;
'
  Franchise Taxes, Ordinary |
Street Railway Tax-City.............. Hy ODV Co  ecce e  cer ween  rc s
“ ““ ** State... poorer vecesencec  [coec rc s
  |
  Miscellaneous
State Tax. ....... ecesececc  ec ) leseeteccce [essneetse cess ...   
County Vax occ. cc  eccsee ce   ce    essne retne[annen necnenee  FOUL. GH  eesececw 
!   Liquor Licenses....................... vice]  D)  [occ  
  Other Licenses |
Auctioneers     OO ic  ees |ecet  eres seca renes
Peddlers ........      TSB.  occe es occ sseea [ce  s
Pool, Billiard and Bowling Alleys.. TBO OO e ce ae oecs  s frs c s
Exhibitions ..... ...  ZIG.O  M   s  cs nseen s
Junk Dealers.  ...     JZ.OO [oc  ene [ec ces sees| ceseenees s
Second-Hand Dealers....... ........... JOO |e cec ec  el icse   nec te [s s
 TQQ. Le ecec    reseers |occer  tert s
Intel igence Offices. ..  ... SOsnISIInINnIN RROD be vecener s
Pawn Broker...................sess set tes |essusn neetn ecenec neres
|   |
Total Taxation.  ...  cene  #e a.as  |

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A-IV—Continued.
II. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
Receipts Expenditures
|boa) we
Ordinary ordina Ordinary ordinary
  Assessments for Sewers..........  eh heneceseanecssvee®
  Assessment for Sidewalks......  ...  esesee| cec  testes |seaeensecsseseere®
  Assessment for Railroad Alley em  |occc 
| .
Sn GE po
Total Special Assessments..................... QE.G  boo.     
|

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A-V.
TRUST FUNDS. }
Funps Receipts. EX PRENDITURES.
Whiting BErOb nent ten  
SCHEDULE A-VI.
TEMPORARY ACCOUNTS. |
| RgcgiptTs. EXPENDITURES.
 Temporary Tax Loans....................:: sse  s  Payments from Sinking Fund into Treasury
and from Treasury to redeem matured Bonds  
|  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
CONTINGENT ACCOUNT.
EXPENDITURES ITEMIZED.

Brooks Hamilton, Attys., legal services, Lyman

Mills, Coeee 
Gardner Gardner, Attys., Judgment, T. W.

Mann ease, . 
Green Bennett, Attys., legal services, T. W. Mann

ease,  wwe 
T. B. O’Donnell, Atty., legal services,  
Storey, Thorndike Palmer, Attys., lezal services,  
P. H. Sheehan, Atty., legal services,  
William Mutter, Atty., legal services, ..  
John Ahern, claim, ..).  
City of Boston, (smallpox), claim, 
Town of Hardwick, (smallpox), claim, 
Town of Russell, (smallpox), claim,  
C. T. Callahan, Atty., claim, (Wolfe), 
C. T. Callahan, Atty., claim, (Davis),  ...  
J.R. Callahan, Atty.,claim,(Garmeau), 
James F. Greaney, clam,  
William A. Matthes, claim,  .).  
Green Bennett, Attys., clam, (Perry), ..  
A. LL. Green, Atty., claim, (Steinert), ...  
P. J. Garvey, Atty., claim, (Dixon), ...  
Louis G. Lamberton, elaim,  
F. A. Morris, Atty., claim, (Lombard), 
Willhaam Nadeau, claim,  O.  
T. J. O'Connor, Atty., claim, (Flanagan),  
T. B. O’Donnell, Atty., claim, (Griffin),  ...  
M. J. O'Connor, Atty., claim, (O’Connor),  ..  
P. HT. Sheehan, Atty., claim, (Martin),  ...  ,
M. L. Welcker, Atty., claim, (O’Connor),  
Charles A. Allen, witness fees, 
C. T. Callahan, Atty., witness fees,  ...  
EK. C. BK. E. Davis, witness fees,  ...  
Ellsworth Kirkpatrick, witness fees, ...  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
Arthur F. Gray, witness fees, ..  
W. J. Howes, witness fees,  
John Heinritz, witness fees, ...  
Dr. J. C. Hubbard, witness fees,  
Charles L. Newcomb, witness fees, ..  
C. M. Slocum, witness fees, ..  
F. A. MeLane, witness fees. .-.  
American Brazing Mfg. Co., rent polling place,  
G. P. B. C. E. Alderman, rent polling place,  
R. P. Crafts’ Estate, rent polling place,  .. 
Valere Ducharme, rent polling place, 
Field Sinclair, rent polling place,  .,  
Holyoke Machine Co., rent polling place, ..  
James P. Hobert, rent polling place. ..  
C. R. Wuebler, rent polling place, ..  
E. H. Howland, rent polling place, ..  
Sons of Zion, rent polling place, ..  
Sullivan Carmody, rent of stoves, plumbing, for
polling places, Bee  
John J. Ahern, janitor polling place, ..  
James France, Janitor polling place,  ..  John Sullivan, janitor polling place, ...  
Collins Murray, furniture for polling places, —.  
St. Jerome Temperance Society, rent polling place,  
Gas Electric Department, gas for polling places,  
O’Leary Plumbing Co., repairs, polling booths,  
Casper Ranger, repairs, polling places and ballot
boxes, ce  
Sparrow MeTicue, repairs, polling places, oo.  
M. J. Moynihan, repairs, ballot boxes,  ...  
E. K. Tolman, ballot boxes for polling places, Wilham B. Whiting Coal Co., coal for polling |
places, wwe,  
Pay roll, eleetion officers,  ...  ...  
E. C. Clarke Co., premium, Treasurer’s bond, .—.  
J. H. O’Connell, premium, Treasurer’s bond,  
Boston News Bureau, subseription,  ...  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
H. A. Chase, postage,  
Frederick Kilian, postage,  
Edward Cadieux, traveling expemses, ...  
T. W. Doyle, traveling expenses,  
D. W. Kenney, traveling expenses, ... :
Gilbert Potvin, Jr., traveling expenses, ..  
William T. Walsh, traveling expenses, ..  
Die Biene, advertising,  
Free Press Publishing Co., advertising,  
La Justice, advertising, ...  
La Revue, advertising, ....  
Le Journal, advertising, ...  
New England Rundschau, advertising,  
Stumpf Steurer, advertising,  
Telegram Publishing Co., advertising,  
Transcript Publishing Co., advertising, 
Transcript Publishing Co., printing,  
Anker Printing Co., printing,  
Cady Printing Co., printing, ..  
Doyle Printing Co., printing,  
Henry M. Meek Publishing Co., printing, ...  
Joseph Dupont, team hire, ..  
George I. Fitch, team hire, .) 
| A. F. Gingras, team hire, ...  
M. J. Laporte, team hire,  
T. F. Ryan, team hire, ..  
Fitzgerald Co., stationery,  
Highland Mfg. Co., stationery,  
Johnson, Butler Co., stationery,  
R. R. Nickerson, stationery, ...  
Home National Bank, express, ..  
Ilolyoke National Bank, express, ..  
John F. Sheehan, express,  
Wilham T. Walsh, express,  ...)  
Harry Crosby, burial agent, burial of veterans, —.  
A. R. Anderson, index book,  ..)  
Berkshire Band Buckle Co., binders,  ..  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
Baker-Vawter Co., binders, ...  
Eureka Ruling Binding Co., blank book, ..  
Franklin BindingCo., book binders, ...  
J. C. Lutz Lithograph Co., bound book, ....  National Blank Book Co., blank books, ..  :
P. W. Ziegler Co.,law book,  
Wright Potter Printing Co., law book, ....  
N. P. Avery, sundry expenses, ...  
William P. Buckley, professional services, ..  
M. B. Bunker, flowers,  
Field Sinclair, flowers, . 
Pierre Bonvouloir, traveling expenses, express,
postage, ete., wee  
Beck Duplicator Co., duplicator,  
Connor Brothers, pens, ... ...  
Cotton Gould, peneils, ..)  
Carter’s Ink Co., ink, ..).  
Charles P. Crosier, soap, ...  
A. B. Chapin, sundry expenses, ...  
Nellie J. Clifford, typewriting, ..  
Miss M. A. Lee, typewriting, ...  
Oliva Menard, typewriting, ...  
Demers Son, photographs, ..  
John H. Woods, photographs, ..  
E. H. Friedrich, galvanized iron boxes,  
William Fitzgerald, silver polish,  ...  
Gertrude M. Griswold, copying evidence, (Mann
case ), Ce  
George L. Goodyear, telephone, ..  
New England Telephone Telegraph Co., use of
telephone and tolls, ee,  
M. J. Griffin, City Soheitor, litigation expenses, —.  
Holyoke Street Railway Co., tickets,  ...  
Holyoke Ice Co., ice,  ...  
George H. Hill, rubber stamps, ete,  ...  
Morgan, Crossman Co., rubber stamps, ete,  
Kee Lox Mfg. Co., carbon paper, ... RDS

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
F. S. Webster Co., ribbons, carbon paper, pencil
sharpener, ete, .  
Kilpatrick Post, No.  G. A. R., appropriation for
Memorial Day, .  
A. N. Lapointe, constable fees,  
Fred Laduke, deputy sheriff, fees,  
V. J. O'Donnell, deputy sheriff, fees,  
| W.S. Miller, deputy sheriff, fees,  
O. W. Studley, deputy sheriff, fees,  
| M. J. Moynihan, repairing safe lock,  
E. G. Norton, use of table, polling place, 
New England Towel Supply, laundry,  ..  
Price Lee, directories,  ..).  
Additional payment to Registrars of Voters,  
J. Russell Co., hardware, ...  
:. E. Russell Co., hardware, 
Remington Typewriter Co., ribbons, brush, ..  
Smith Premier Typewriter Co., repairs, typewriter,  
Ross Bray, repairs, flag, ...  
C. W. Raekliffe, drill, ...  
A. E. Sunter, benzine, ...  
A. Steiger Co., cheese cloth, sponges, 
J. R. Smith, matches, lye,  ...  
John Tilley Co., tables ...  
Frank E. Wood, penholders,  ..  
Thomas B. Warren, professional services,  
A. J. Willett, luneh for officials recounting State
Vote, Ck  
MeLean Brothers, tables,  ... 
kK. S. Fuller, expert auditing,  ...  
John F. Sheehan, recording births, marriages and
. deaths,  
Total, Coe 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
BIRTH RETURNS.
C. A. Allen, ... 
Jesse L. Bliss, eS  )
Joseph E. Brindamour,  
Frank F. Celee, .)).  
Jean H. Celece,  
Hl. E. Chaput,  
Lows II. Clarke, 
F. J. Cloutier,  ...  
QO. J. Comtois,   
(iardner Cox, rs 
C. H. Curran, )  
Ella M. Davi,  .) .).)SO 
Wilfred G. Deroin, 
Richard E. Dickson, ...  
Joseph H. Dixon, .estCS:SS*zY *'C DH
J. A. Donner,  
D. F. Donoghue,  SS SSs:Ss* ‘LODOD
Adolphe Franz,  .a
George L. Gabler,    
Gieorge J. Hebert, ..)  
G. D. Henderson,  
Frank Holyoke, .) .))  
J.C. Hubbard,  
George E. Hlunt,  ... esi
. Pp. E. Hurley, .)  
GL. Kinne, ...  
E. J. Mahoney, .  
S. A. Mahoney,  ...  D
Joseph A. Marin, ...  ).  
John J. MeCabe,  Se tiwt*é‘SS*DLHS OD
Michael J. MeInteew  wwe}
Edward J. MeNamara, .)  
Frederick A. Mead,  ...  
R. S. Morrison, ..).  
J.J. O'Connor, tstéSS*“EDN

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
George C. Robert,  
Harry R. Sackett,  
John P. Shine, .)  
George H.Smith,  
Wilfred M. St. Georges, ..  
William J. Teahan, ...  
E. H. Tierney, ..  
Charles H. Turner, 
E. D. Warren, ...  
Arthur B. Witherell, 
Frank H. Woods, ...  
Mrs. William Kelley,  
Anna Drozowski,   
Emilie Kuhn, .
Mrs. R. Wruck, .)  
J.Dela Neuville,  !
Domitte Payette, re  )
Mary Dueey, .. Es)
Charles B. Flynn, ..  
Charles J. Hanson, ...  
George G. Hitehecock, ...  
Benjamin Fagnant,  .) ES)
—— 
DEATH RETURNS.
C.R. Alver,  we 
D. F. Barry,  ... eStSsiid 
C. Blais Co, .
A.L. Codaire& Co,  
John Dillon Estate,  ...  
Dillon Brothers,  , )
Joseph Dupont,   
A. F. Gingras,  ... tst:S*éi S'S
James P. Uobart,  ...) .)  
Wells Lathrop,  
Joseph AL O'Donnell, ...  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
T. F. Ryan, .)  
John B. Shea, ..)  
W.C. Naughton, ..., WD
N.L. Byron,  —
T. F. Broughall, .)  
Sampson Sweeney,  
James J. Hafey,  
J.H.Clume,  ...  
J. J. Gleason, re  
P.M. Shea, OO, 
M. T. O’Brien, .-. ..  
Cyrille Beausoleil, re  
Aman Gordon, Bee kk  
John Bowler, See  
Charles Ernst, Boe ea  
Zoal Tanguay,  
V. E. Mitchell,   
: ——. 
$ 
Transferred to sundry departinents,  
. 
| SALARIES. |
SALARY ACCOUNT ITEMIZED.
Arthur B. Chapin, Mayor,   
Nathan P. Avery, Mayor, . 
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk,  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer,  
Daniel W. Kenney, City Auditor,  
Thomas F, McCabe, Tax Collector,  
William T. Walsh, City Messenger,  
Dr. Michael J. McIntee, City Physician,  
Nathan P. Avery, City Solicitor, 
Michael J. Griffin, City Solicitor,  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
Hector J. Mondor, Sealer Weights and Measures,  
A. J. Rand, Caretaker City Hall Clock, ...  
James K. Morrill, Inspector Milk, ete,  
John F. Sheehan, Registrar of Voters,  
Thomas Stansfield, Registrar of Voters,  
Charles U. Roy, Registrar of Voters, ...  
James J. Dunn, Registrar of Voters, 
(reorge L. Goodyear, Inspector Provisions, ete.,  
Casper Ranger, Chairman License Commission,  
Michael J. Bowler, License Commissioner,  
Dwight H. Ives, License Commissioner,  ..  
Frederick Kilian, Clerk of License Commission, —.  
Joseph St. Martin, Chairman Board of Assessors,  
Joseph J. Kelley, Assessor,   
Jeremiah J. Keane, Assessor,  
James T. Cunningham, City Almoner,  
A. F. Gingras, Overseer of Poor,  
William J. Dillon, Overseer of Poor,  ..  
John T. Sheehan, Overseer of Poor,  ...  
Richard Gilday, Overseer and Clerk,  ...  
William J. Dillon, Overseer and Clerk,  ...  
Dr. A. B. Wetherell, Member of Board of Health,  
Dr. Frank A. Woods, Member of Board of Health,  
Jeremiah J. Linehan, Member of Board of Iealth,  
Elizabeth G. Shea, Clerk Board of Health, 
James L. Tighe, City Engineer, ...  
Michael EF. Walsh, Chairman Board of Publie Works,  .;
(albert Potvin, Jr., Member Board of Public Works,  
Oren D. Allwn, Member Board of Pubhe Works,  
Henry Winkler, Superintendent of Streets,  
Jerennah Scannell, City Hall Janitor,  ...  
Nelhe J. Clifford, Clerk, Auditor, .)  
Mary M. Rooney, Clerk, Auditor,  ...  
John C. Doran, Clerk of Committees,  ...  
Fred I]. Gilpatrick, Inspector of Buildings,  
Transferred to Sundry Departments, 
$  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
CITY INDEBTEDNESS.

, City DEBT NoT EXEMPTED,

Bonds, years per cent, Municipal, Due July 
“ MW June  

oe MW  'g@ “e Dec.  
“  “Sept.  (), 
*  ss (Fire Dep't) ‘May  
"  sec  “‘ Litigation July  

Unexempted debt, 
EXEMPTED DERT.**

Bonds, years per cent. H.and W. R. R. Stock, Due Oct. 
" **  H. and  H. Falls Bridge, ‘* Sept. 
“ ** Sewer, May  
“ ‘“* H. and W. R. R. Stock, “July  
"“  Sewer, ‘* Oct.  
“ ‘*  H. and W. Bridge, ‘* June  
“  ** S§chool, June  
" tf "fe ff July  
‘ Mech. ,’  
‘ ‘**  ‘* Water, Jan.  
“ *f§ th July  
‘ SS  June  

Total exempted debt, 
Total debt with Sinking Fund provisions, 
, **Exempted by special acts of the I-egislature.
SINKING FUNDS.
Sinking Fund, Water Bonds, Jan.   —
“ July  
“ oe June ;
“ City Debt, |
“ es Exempted,  
Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Stock, par value,  
|  ———————-  
Total Net Debt,  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SERIAL LOANS, UNEXEMPTED.
Bonds. Yrs. Per cent.
a School, ($  paid
annually), ‘May  
“ Municipal, ($  paid
annually),  June  
‘ “* Highways ($  paid
annually), May  
“ Sewers ($  paid annually), May   oc és Highways ($  paid
annually). Aug. 
“  s‘ ‘“ Highways. Sewers and
Sidewalks ($  paid
annually ), Mch. School ($  paid
annually), ‘* Sept. €-  
$ 
SERIAL LOANS, EXEMPTED.
Bonds. Yrs. Per cent.
“  '* ‘** Gasand Electric Light
($  paidannually), ‘* Dec.  
““ ‘* Gasand Electric Light
($  paid annually), ‘* Oct.  
“  Gasand Electric Light
($  paid annually), ‘* Nov. 
‘  $‘* ‘* Gasand Electric Light
($  paid annually), ‘* April 
“* Gasand Electric Light
($  paidannually), ‘* Sept.  
$  
Grand total net debt, 
ASSETS.
Water Works, Build  
All other City Buildings, assessed valuation, Land and Parks, real estate only, 
Gas and Electric Light Plants,  
——  
Excess of assets over liabilities,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
LOANS—-TEMPORARY.
  .
Dec,  .—To Balance,  Nov.  .—Loans Paid, 
Nov.  Loans to date, To Balance,  
$  
| LOANS—BONDS.
HIGHWAYS—SEWERS, SIDEWALKS, AND GAS AND ELECTRIC.
 
Apr.  —Transferred to Highway Apr.  —Highways, Sewers and Sidewalks,
“ Improvements,  Loan, 
Transferred to Sewers, Per- Premium,  
im Manent Construction, Interest, Accrued,  
Transferred to Sidewalks, “Gas and Electric,  
oT Permanent Construction, “Premium,  
“ ansferred to Highways, “Interest Accrued,  
““ ‘“ Sewers, June Gas Holder Loan,  
“ Sidewalks,  Premium,  
“ ‘a Interest, ‘Interest, Accrued,  
Electric Station, Sept.  School Loan,  
ra Permanent Construction, Premium,  
June ransferred to G. E. Int., Interest Accrmed,  
une Gas Holder, Gas and Electric Loan,  
‘a iP No.  te Premium,  
ts G. E. Interest, Interest Accrued,  
Sept. Ward  Schoul,  
“ ** Interest,  
“ ** Gas Holder No.  
“ ‘** Electric Station.  
** Gas and Elec. Int.,  
$  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
TAXES.
THomas F. McCaBeE, Tax Collector, in Account with City of Holyoke.
  .
Dec.  .—Balance Due Taxes,  Nov. U.—Receipts, Taxes, 
“ .” te se  V,  “s ss  be  “s 
“  ss se  se 
‘ “e  
“   
“ se  ss  bed  
* —Additional ass’t,  se “s  
Dec.  .—Ba). Sidewalk Ass’t,  Interest, 
“  .—Addt'l Ass't,  se  se 
‘*  .—Sewear Assessment,   ‘e   
Aug.  —Taxes,  se be 
'  Exeose Tax (Stores), se  
Interest Collected to date,  
Oct.  .—Excise Tax, St. Railway,   
“ Sidewalks, 
“s Sewers, 
“ Abated, Taxes, 
“ 
“ 
rz 
oe  
, 
“ Excise Tax, (Stores),  
“ Taxes and assessments ;
outstanding,  
$  "$ 
SUMMARY UNCOLLECTED TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS.
 Taxes,  “e  Sidewalk Assessments,  Sewer ‘e  Excise Tax, Stores,  
—————-. 
PIERRE BONVOULOIR, City Treasurer, Sidewalk and Sewer Assessments.
  .
Dec.  .—Bal., Sidewalk Ass’t, Nov.  .—Receipts, Sidewalks,  ry) ry ry’  .S  be ry)  ],  
“s +e so  
ry “a ry} ts ry ry  ay  
. “Sewer GOO RT “s Receipts Sewers, 
ve “s S.  
‘* Abatement,  
“ Outstanding Assessments,  
$  
SUMMARY UNCOLLECTED SIDEWALK AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS.
Sidewalk Assessment, 
.* 
‘* ** 
“ “. 
“ Sewer, ‘‘  os ae 
——-—— 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
ANNUAL NET DEBT STATEMENT.
The following table shows the net debt at the close of each
fiscal year, beginning with  :
Year. Net Debt. Increase. Decrease.
 toe lee re , re  re  re  re  .  , re , re  re  re  re  re  re 
Additions to the Sinking Funds during the year were:
For water debt, city debt (exelusive of serial loan
payments), total, To retire serial loans:
City debt, Gas and Eleetrie Plant debt,  ;
retiring vears’ bonds grand total payments. to
Sinking Funds and retiring of bonds, The payments on the bonds serial and year were as follows: Munieipal bonds, to  School,  to  ,
$ Municipal, to  Highways, to

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR

 Sewer, to  Gas and Electric 
Department bonds, total payments on bonded debt,
$ .

There was borrowed during the year  for highways,
sewer and sidewalks permanent improvements;  for the
Ward Two School and  for extensions to the Gas and
Electric Light Plant. The total amount borrowed being
$ the total payments including Sinking Fund were
$ making the loan exd payments by .

Respectfully submitted,
D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

CITY ORDINANCES  
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.
AN ORDINANCE ,

To establish the salary of the Inspector of Plumbing.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows:

SECTION  The salary of the Inspector of Plumbing is
hereby established at the rate of fifteen hundred dollars per
year.

Section  All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

SEcTION  This ordinance shall take effect upon its passage.

Approved May s. }

  CITY ORDINANCES
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.
AN ORDINANCE
.. To establish the salary of one Assistant Engineer.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows: |
SECTION  The salary of one Assistant Engineer is
hereby established at the rate of one thousand dollars per year.
SECTION  All ordinanees and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
SECTION  ... This ordinanee shall take effeet upon its passave,
Approved May |
 |

CITY ORDINANCES  
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.
AN ORDINANCE ,
To establish the salary of the Superintendent of
Out Door Work.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:

SECTION  The salary of the superintendent of Out Door
Work is hereby established at the rate of two thousand dollars per year.

SECTION  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

SECTION  This ordinance shall take effeet upon its pasSage. ,

Approved May .

  CITY ORDINANCES
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.
AN ORDINANCE

To establish the salary of Assistant City Engineer.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows:

Section  The salary of the Assistant City Engineer  s
hereby established at the rate of fifteen hundred dollars per
year. }

Section  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.

Approved May .

 I

CITY ORDINANCES  
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.
AN ORDINANCE
To establish the salary of Assistant Assessor.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:
SECTION  The salary of the Assistant Assessor is hereby
established at the rate of one thousand dollars per year.
Section  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
, SECTION  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.
Approved May .

  CITY ORDINANCES
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One ‘Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.
AN ORDINANCE
Relating to leave of absence of the permament members
of the Fire Department.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:

SecTIOn  Subjeet to the provision that the dates to be

‘assigned for days off, as hereby provided, may be changed at

any time as the interests of the department may require, each
member cf the permanent foree of the fire department shall be
allowed leave cf absence, without less of pay, as follows, :

 Twenty-four hours, twice in each calendar month, to
be known as ‘day off.""

 One extra hour for dinner on Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Day.

  Two weeks’ veation each year.

SecTION  This ordinance shall take effeet upon its passage.

Approved March .

a

CITY ORDINANCES  
City of Holyoke. |
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Five.
AN ORDINANCE
To regulate public amusements and the display of pictorial
posters, placards and show bills advertising the same,
within the Cily of Holyoke.

Be it ordained by the Beard cf Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as fellows:

SECTION  The following regulations are hereby established fer the government and regulation of publie amusements, and the display of pietcrial pesters, placards and show
bills advertising the same.

SECTION  .) Licenses fer theatrical exhibitions, pubhe
shows, public amuseinents cf every deseription, to which admission is obtained upon payments of money or any valuable
thing, cr by ticket cr voucher obinined by the payment of
money or any Valuable thing, shall be granted by the Beard of
Aldermen, subject to the terms and conditions heremafter set

) forth, and to such other terms and eonditions as the said Board .
may from time to time preseribe; and any failure to observe
the said terms and cenditions shall be deemed sufficient cause
for the revoeation of such license. During vacation, or between sessions of the Board of Aldermen, the committee on
licenses nay grant temporary heenses to have cffeet until the
next session of the Board thereafter. Such leenses shall be
recorded by the City Clerk, and shall be of like validity and
effect, and shall be subject to the same terms and conditions,
as licenses regularly issued by the Board. All licenses for a
theatrical season shall expire on the first day of May next after the date of the hcense. |

  CITY ORDINANCES
SECTION  The fees for licenses established by this Ordinance shall be as follows, unless otherwise ordered by the
Board :—For licenses for performance or exhibition for one
: day, three dollars; for term exding one day and not exding six days, one dollar per day; for term exding six
days and not exding thirty days, fifty cents per day; and
for term exding thirty days and not exding onc year,
twenty-five dollars.

SECTION  Every such licensee shall prevent his place of
amusement and any performance or exhibition therein from
being advertised by means of pictorial posters, placards or
show bills which have not been approved by the City Marshal,
or by some person designated by him. No postcrs, placards or
show bills which are lewd, indecent or vulgar, or which pictorially represent the commission or attempt to commit any
crime or bodily violence, shall be exhibited or-displayed within
the city; nor shall any theatrical exhibition, play or performance be advertised on any poster, placard or show bill within
the city, by any name or title which indicates that the exhibition, play or performance portrays, represents, shows, enacts,
or explains scenes of immorality or the commission of, or attempt to commit, crimes against chastity. The City Marshal
shall exclude all posters, ‘placards, or show bills which violate
the above provisions. |

SECTION  Any person exhibiting or displaying posters,
placards or show bills in violation of the provisions of the
preceding section, shall for each and every offence forfeit and
pay penalty of not less than five nor more than twenty dollars.

SEcTION  All exhibitions and performances required to
be licensed here, and held in any place not heensed as theatre or publie hall under Chapter of the Acts of  or
any act in amendment thereof, shall be subject to inspection
by the City Marshal and the committee on licenses.

Section  Upon request of the licensee, one or more firemen, to be detailed by the members of the Fire Commission,

CITY ORDINANCES  
and one or more policemen, to be detailed by the City Marshal.
may be furnished at the expense of the Hieensee. If, in the
opinion of the Board of Aldermen, the pubhe safety requires
the attendanee of policemen or firemen at any exhibiticn or
performance, the same shall be furnished at the heensee’s place
of amusement, the expense to be paid by the heensce.

Section  This Ordinance shall take effeet upon its
passave. )
Approved May .

A
| NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

Attinger J. George Main street Cigar Mfr.
Archambault Joseph Crescent street Stone Cutter
Aubry Samuel J.  Park street Pump Shop

Auld James Bowers street Valley Paper Co.
Archambault Eli Lyman street Tailor

Angers William Main street Engineer

Avard Antoine East street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Alger George F. High street Paper Ruler

Allen James A. Essex street Store

Allen William H. Arthur street Kily Lumber Co.
Astley James Jackson street Hampshire Paper Co.
Abbott Wilham H. Allyn street Soap Manufacturer
Allyn Edwin H. Fairfield avenue Insuranee Agent
Allyn George H. River terrace Real Estate Agent
Allan Robert W. Walnut street Superintendent
Alger Floyd C. Dwight street Undertaker

Allyn Edward A. Chestnut street Produce Dealer.
Avery Frank L. Dwight street Plumbing Inspector

B

Bibeau Louis Race street Wood and Coal
Beauchemin Joseph A. Summer street Butcher

Bigness Clarence Main street Barber

Burley Reuben Canal street Hadley Co.

Baril Pierre Jr Adams street Machinist

Bogart Henry Mosher street Papermaker

JURY LIST  

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Beaulac William Bridge street Holyoke St. Ry. Co.
Belding Clark E. Grover street Hadley Co.
Biggins William E. East Dwight street Clerk
Burnham Fred G. Main street Grain Dealer
Brockway Daniel B. Elm street Insurance Agent
Barnett George East Dwight street Riverside Paper Co.
Barrett Scott F. West street Retired
Blackmer Louis E. Bowers street Milk Dealer
Blackmer George E. Bowers street Cigarmaker
Bigness Henry Main street Papermaker
Bisaillon Joseph P. Appleton street Clerk
Barnes James  Maple street Retired
Bellville Maxime J. Hich street Singer Machine Co.
Bogue Henry J.  Cabot street Dietz Bakery
Barry James T. Maple street Ball Player
Beaudro Willian G. Elm street Holyoke Machine Co.
Branagan Michael High street Paper Mill Op.
Briggs Samuel T. Ihgh street Farr Alpaca Co.
Broderick Edward A. Maple street Boilermaker
Beloin Mederie II. Maple street Ruler
Bangs Gilbert C. Main street Papermaker
Breyer Arno Vernon street Holyoke Env. Co.
Brown Henry G. Jackson street Merrick Thread Co.
Bell John H. Cottage avenue Agent
Brockett Eli I. Beacon avenue Builder |
Buek Frank L. Pearl street Painter 
Burnham Cyrus G. Fairfield avenue Grain Dealer ,
Ball George T. Pine street Druggist
Batchelor Alfred  Dwight street Gardner
Bohmer William F. Oak street Pawn Broker
Bridges Rolla E. Essex street Overseer
Buckland Edward A. Walnut street Machinist
Burlingame John L. Walnut street Manufacturer
Ball Francis W. Clark street Farmer
Batchelor Frederick Chapin street Retired
Begley Matthew B. Gates street  Painter |

  JURY LIST

NAME, RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Best Edward A. S. Brown avenue Hol. Coal Word Co.
Bray Thomas A. Ilitcheock street Merchant  
Brown Walter W. Cook street Moulder
Burns William T. Walnut street Merchant
Bunnell, William D. Maple street Printer
Bosworth William E. Bh street Piano Tuner
Begley Thomas J. Lyman street Laborer
Burns Dennis High street Retired
Beman Guy H. Suffolk street Bookkeeper
Bonvouloir Sigefroid J. High street Clerk
Brannigan Thomas J. Oak street Papermaker
Brennan Daniel J. Walnut street Papermaker
Boyer Frank Front street Mill Operative
Brown John W.  High street Merchant
Byrnes John J. Elm street. Merchant
Bishop Wilham I. Linden street Expressman .
Blanchard George N. Dwight street Mechanie
Bateson John J. High street Collector
Benoit Arthur IT. Dwight street Manager
Brennan Patrick H. Dwight street Merchant
Brennan Stephen J. Elm street Mason
Bardwell Joseph Maple street Bookkeeper
Bresnahan William F. Pine street Tinner

| C

Curley Francis J. Main strect Contractor
Charest Odilon Z. E. Main street Furniture Dealer
Chevrette Charles E. Center street Clerk
Chevaher Charles West street U. S. Envelope Co.
Codaire Adolphus L. Main street Undertaker
Codaire Souliada Center street Crocker Paper Co.
Connor Thomas Center street Druggist
Chevalier Oliver West street Farr Alpaca Co.
Coyle ITenry East street Paper Mill
Corriveau Philemon Park street Barber
Cousineau Alfred F.  Main street Plumber

JURY LIST  

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Clifford Patrick J. Center street American Thread Co.
Cantin William Iligh street Barber
Carney William H. Iligh street Optician .
Casey Timothy Newton street Blacksmith
Caissy Arthur J. Cabot street Clerk
Crimi Frank Newton street Finisher
Carolon Cornelius Maple street Insurance Agent
Cavanaugh Nicholas I]Jampshire street Nat’l Blank Book
Cochran Puch High street Machinist
Coughlin Frederick F. Maple street Insuranee Avent
Coffey Timothy Sargeant street Paper Mill Op.
Cobb James Hampshire street Paper Mill Op.
Cotter Wilham H. Pear] street Millwright
Cahill George F. Walnut street Electrician
Connor James Oak street Salesman
Cook Nelson C. Walnut street Produce Dealer
Corser Charles W. Pine street Machinist |
Crawford David Walnut street Fireman
Crowe John Walnut street Machinist
Chapin Edwin C. Lawler street Salesman
Connor Dennis J. Brown avenue Mill Operative
Coakley Patrick Ilampden street Plasterer |
Callahan John C. Fountain street Mill Operative
Crabb Wilham J.  Front street Shoeman
Casey James Chestnut street Fireman
Chase Edward T.  Walnut street Paper Ruler
Capen Auburn P. Linden street Pubhe Parks.
Cavanaugh Maurice J. Pine street Bricklayer
Connor Charles F. Walnut street Clerk
Cowan James Suffolk street Retired
Crosby George B. Chestnut street Superintendent
Clark John E. Ifampden street Manufacturer
Cleary James F. Dwight street Inspector
Cray William J. Dwight street Merchant
Curley John J. Oak street Merehant
Connor Richard Bh street Pressman

  JURY LIST
D
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Dean Robert F. Bridge street Motorman
Dausey John H. Park street Cigarmaker
Deniger Charles Jr. East street Painter
Danehy John West street Merrick Thread Co.
Desilets Joseph Kast Dwicht street Clerk
Delorme Alcide Bridge street Casper Ranger
Dugas Firmin Hamilton street Ciearmaker
Dean Eugene Maple street Fireman
Dearden Robert Maple street. Buehanan Bolt
Donohue Edward J. Hampshire street  Ruler
Dowd Lawrence F. Sargeant street Clerk
Driscoll Jolin Elhn street Thread Glazier
Dempsey Patrick F. Maple street Stenographer
De Wolfe Albert. E. Maple street. Reporter
Driscoll William Elm street Insuranee Agent
Ducharme William Hampshire street  Molder
Driscoll William Tigh street Papermaker
Davitt Thomas O. Avon place Machinist
Davis Charles S. Lincoln street Stablekeeper
Dean Wilbert T. Fairfield avenue Painter
Dibble William, A. Beaeon avenue Carpenter
Dickinson Everett ML. Vaineoln street Art Dealer
Doane Georee W, Lincoln street Contractor
Donnelly Peter J. Dwight street Steain Fitt r
Diamond Tenry Linden street Foreman
Dean kh Willow street Loom Fix ur
Dearden Joseph lo Lawler avenue Overseer
Downie Martin A. Laurel street Machinist
Dumelow William J. Martin street Merehant
Dirant Penry O. Chapin street Machinist
Dennehy Dennis Tfampden street Bleaehimaker
Donnelly Cornelius Maple street Butcher |
Dineen Florence P. Chestnut street Paper hill Operatle }
Donoghue Thnothy Chestnut street Merchant |
 €§

.
JURY LIST  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Doran J. Joseph Fountain street Printer
Dourherty James Suffolk street Real Estate
Doyle Stephen I. Miller avenue Printer
Dowd James .J. Dwight street Insuranee Agent
Dowdell Lawrence Bh street Fireman
Driseoll Stephen F. Elm street Clerk
E
Kdwards Charles Cottage avenue Pressman
Edwards Joseph B. Bond street Printer
Kiv Franklin W. Locust street Ely Lumber Co.
Knele William A. Oak street Insurance Agent
Kvans Kdwin B.  Sargeant street Salesman
Elhott Palmer B. Glen street Machine Tender
Kkly Henry S. Bh street Merrick Thread Co.
Kneehnann Otto B. Thitcheock strect Twister
Ernest J. Lansing Sonoma place Theater Caslier
Kean Bernard EF.  Bridge street Papermaker
Kueland George IT. Dwieht street Jeweller
F .
Fortune Robert Main street Conduetor
Fivnn Maurice B. Mai street White Wyrekolf
itzsimmons Andrew  Tely strect Clerk
Frappier Henry Kly street Win. Skinner Mfg. Co.
Kinn Thomas II. Bowers street Boss Inuisher
Moley Patrick Tf. Kast street ivman Alills
Fournier Amedece Bridve street Skinner Mife. Co.
Fallon James  Commercial street Farr Alpaca Co.
Fisher Charles JA. Hampshire street Amenecan Thread Co.
Fitzgerald Maurice FE. Chestnut street. Laborer
Flaherty Michael D. Thigh street Millwright
Fortier Lawrence HT. Appleton street Drue Clerk
Flynn Simon A. Thigh street Druveist
Kox John PV. Maple street Karr Alpaea Co.

  JURY LIST

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Fox Patrick Franklin street Farr Alpaca Co.
Francoeur Samuel L. Hampshire street Barber
Fitzpatrick Thomas J. High street Papermaker
Ford Charles J. Hampden street Clerk
Fay Collamer 'T’. Bh street Retired
Fitch George I. Walnut street Livery Stable Keeper
Farr Simeon View street Weaver
Feather Frank Washington avenue Tinner
Fraleigh Frank Clark street Machine Tender
Farrell James E. Maple street Roofer
Fenton Kugene Fountain street Laborer
Fitzgerald Thomas Elm street Foreman
Feighery Frank Elm street Insuranee Agent
Kitzgerald Patrick W. School street Motorman
Fleming Urban Lyman street Weaver
Fitzsimmons John P. Maple street Manager

G |
Grandechamp Charles Summer street  Spfld. Blanket Co.
Grandchamp Samuel Summer street Spfld. Blanket Co.
Griffin Joseph E. Creseent stréet Expressman
Gibson. Joseph East Dwight street Clerk
Garrity Thomas IT. East street Insurance Agent
Grise Arthur E. Main street Butcher
Goodrich Charles H. Grover street Bathhousekeeper
Gervais Frederick Main street Stone Mason
Green George A. Center street Eureka R. B. Co.
Glenn Henry Worcester place Retired
Goss Elbert Elm street Loftman
Goyette Stephen Maple street H. Plush Co.
Green John Maple street Stone Cutter
Girard George of Bond street Papermaker
Gorman Edward J. Cabot street Kaffir Cigar Co.
Gardner William Commercial street Millwright
Geissler Emil Adams street Machinist


JURY LIST  

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Geissler Gustave A.  Grant street Clerk
Geissler Max G. James street Bindery
Gorham Irving E. Iligh street Papermaker —
Gray Walter Avon place Cloth Finisher
Garvey Thomas J. Chapin street Machinist
Griffin John A. Pine street Junk Dealer
Glode William H. Maple street Merchant
Gaughan Anthony Lyman street Mill Operative
Gingras Amedee F.  —s  .-s Tigh street Undertaker
Grady Bernard J. Tligh street Chief Clerk
Glidden Charles E. Chestnut street Merchant
Gordon Michael J. Elm street Stone Cutter
Greaney Patrick J. Fountain street Pipe Coverer
Gaynor Thomas W.  Dwight street Bookkeeper
Gillis Ronald J. Hampden street Foreman
Green Patrick Walnut street Retired
Gutermuth Henry Walnut street Clerk

 

Healy Dennis Park street Machinist
Hogan Maurice Main street Teamster
Halliday Samuel Main street Papermaker
Halfpenny John Main street Grocer
Heinritz Hermann East street Druggist
Hennick Frederick W. Race street Painter
Hyde Fred W. Bowers street Hadley Co. |
Hamel Alphonse Main street Agent
Hall Oliver G. High street Engineer
Harrop Samuel R. Maple street Farr Alpaca Co.
Hartzell Leander C. Cabot street Merchant
Hemphill Ashton E. High street Storehouse
Hennessey Thomas J. High street Plumber
Holmes Newton F. Maple street Riverside Paper Co.
House Charles H. Chestnut street Machinist
Holbrook John D. Lincoln street Retired

  JURY LIST
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

Holley Henry Fairfield avenue Ely Lumber Co.
IIorne Irving B. Howard street Machinist
Hardyman William  Syeamore street Farr Alpaca Co.
HTodge James L. Pine street Papermaker
Hubert George C. Elm street See. Y. M. C. A
Hanemann Engelbert Chapin street Stone Cutter
Haarmann Gustave James street Machinist
Hardman Samuel Brown avenue Papermaker
Hills George IH. Tawler avenue Blacksmith
Hofmeyer Georve Rock Valley Farmer

ITooker Charles S. Rock Valley Farmer
Humeston Thomas R. H[omestead avenue Bookkeeper
Hunter John Brown avenue Harnessimaker
IIyde James Il. Jr. Linden street Shipper
Haverty Wilham Sulfolk street Sereen Plates
Hand Peter Front. street Shipping Clerk
Hannifan James J. Chestnut. street Laumeh Cart Prep.
Herre Richard Oak street Barber

Thunes Tra J. Oak street Foreman

Jliffe Michael P. Linden street Clerk

|
Irvine John West street Franklin Faper Co.
J

dohnson Cornelius Chestnut street Paper Mill Op.
Johnson Robert AM. Tigh street Real Estate Agent
Jovee Thomas of. Tigh street Machimist
Jiudee Thomas uA, Maple street Real Estate Agent
Jessop Joseph Iso) Sarveant street Papermaker
Johanms Robert Bh street Merchant
Jewelt. William PH. Sargeant street Retired

Judd Philip M. Pleasant street Paper Dealer

JURY LIST  
K

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Kearns Michael J. Main street Plumber

Kennedy Thomas J. Cabot strect Teamster

Keevers Matthew Cabot street Toolmaker

Kennedy James J. Maple street Machinist

Killelea Henry Maple street Thread Glazier
Keane Patrick J. High street Machinist
Kiley James Whiting avenue Foreman

Kelliher John Whiting avenue Papermaker

Kerin Michael Lyman street Insuranee Canvasser
Kenney Edward J. Walnut street Insuranee Agent

L

Ledue Hormisdas Spring street Prentiss, Brooks Co.
Laplante Victor S.  East street Butcher

Laprise Henry Bridge street Carpenter
Lafontaine Adelard Hanilton street Spfld Blanket Co.
Langevin George Appleton street Merrick Lumber Co.
Levesque Lucien J. Main street Drueist

Lang Andrew  Worcester place Farr Alpaea Co.
Linehan Frank Maple street Plumber

Lowe John H. Franklin street Street Railway
Lawler Edward Maple street Paper Ruler

Leary Daniel J. Maple sireet Clerk

Lee Edmund J. Newton street Clerk

Lyman Charles P. Elin street Merehant

Lynch Dennis F. TSO Chestnut street Insurance Avent
Lamb James Tfampden street Papermaker

Lyinan Eugene Kk. Beacon avenue Merchant

Lassiter James S. Bh street Foreman

Long David A. Walnut street Weaver

Lamont James Lonewood avenue Conduetor
Livermore Walter C. Northampton street Bookkeeper

Lowell Harry Lf. Gilman street Painter

Lynds George I. Harrison avenne Bookkeeper

  JURY LIST
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Lauckner Gustave O. South street Clothier
Leidner Albert O. James street Painter
Lyons Michael J. Linden street Telegrapher
Labonte Francis B. High street Merchant
Lynch Thomas J. Maple street Jeweler
Lynch Patrick J. Lyman street Bricklayer
' Leahy Daniel Elm street Shoemaker
- Lynch Patrick M. Dwight street Architect
Lueey John E. Dwight street Teamster
IVI
MaeGregor Edward Elm street Nat’l Blank Book
MeConville Cornelius Sargeant street Machinist
MeCormick Michael  Commercial street Stone Cutter
McHugh Edward B. Elm street Molder
Mellugh Thomas Maple strect Molder
MeIntee John J. Chestnut street Asst. Assessor
MeTearnen James Worcester place Whitmore Mfg. Co.
Meany Patrick J. Elm street Clerk
Moore Robert D. Elm street Wire Weaver
Marshall Gilbert Chestnut street Bookkeeper
McCarthy John K.  High street Retired
MeDonald Donald High street Machinist
McGarry Thomas F. Newton street Whiting Paper Co.
McKeefe John A. Appleton street Butcher
Mills Fergus T. High street Shoemaker
Monoghan James J. Maple street Insurance Agent
Madsen Jens J. Lincoln street Journalist
Moore Philander Fairfield avenue Retired
Morton Alfred H.Fairfield avenue Superintendent
MeDonald John Elm street Shoe Clerk
MeNab William Locust street  Hampshire Paper Co.
Midgley Samuel Locust street Farr Alpaca Co.
Miles Edwin B. [elm street Clerk
Munroe Philip J. Essex street Doane Williams
Martineau Edward N. View street Teamster

JURY LIST  s

NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
McCormack Andrew Gates street Contractor |
Mennell Alfred Willow street  Machinist |
Murray James Chapin street Envelope Co. |
Marx Henry J. Bridge street Merrick Thread Co. !
McDowell Samuel Commercial street Silk Weaver )
MeInnes Alexander Avon, place Papermaker
MacDonnell John T. F. Suffolk street Paper Pad Mfr.
Moriarty Timothy J. Lyman street Laborer
MeMonegle Fred C. Dwight street Railroad
Manning James Lyman street Retired
MeComes John Dwight street Laborer
Moynahan Maurice J. Dwight street Machinist
Masse Joseph Tigh street Merchant
Marra Timothy Maple street Merchant
MeCearn John Suffolk street Papermaker
Moriarty Patrick J. O’Connor avenue’ Foreman
McNamara Patrick Clinton avenue Bookbinder
MeGuire Arthur P. Tigh street Barber
MeIntee Augustine J. Lyman street Student
Montcalm Adolphe East Dwight street Drug Clerk Miller George East street Painter .
Mays Thomas  Main street Beebe [olbrook
Mullen Cornelius Main street Boilermaker
Mahoney John West street Tinner
Mahoney Patrick West street Laborer
Mohan Henry I. East Dwight street Crocker Mfg. Co.
Muir Thomas Center street Papermaker
Mullen Edward Center street Skinner Mfg. Co.
Miles John Bridge street Spfld Blanket Co.
Moore Edward East street Fireman
Marcotte Hubert Spring street Butcher
Menard Edward Race street Millwright
Monty Louis C. Ilamilton strect Merrick Thread Co.
Moreau QOdilon Park street Butcher
Morin Damase F. Hamilton street Maehinist
Moriarty Thomas J. Dwirht street Collector

  JURY LIST
ON
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.

Nugent Thomas F. Main street Cigar Mfr.
Nickerson Ruel R. Essex street Merchant
Nye Andrew Maple street Farr Alpaca Co.

- Newsom Joseph Washington avenue Papermaker
Nye Henry L. Hillside avenue Beltmaker
Nobles Frederick Dwight street Mechanic

O ‘
O’Brien Patrick J. Maple street Barber
O’Connor James J. Canal street City Engineer’s Office
Oberlander John A. Eli street Overseer
O’Connor John F. Bond street Retired
O’Neill John S. Sargeant street Asst. Health Officer
O’Connell Charles J. Linden street Contractor
O’Neill Lawrenee A. Walnut street Insurance Agent
Oldroyd Thomas High street Farr Alpaca Co.
O’Rourke John F. Front street Foreman
Osborne IIenry Lyman street Pump Shop
Q’Connor Edward F. Pine street Merchant
O’Brien Patnek Clinton avenue Manager
O’Connor John Walnut street Teamster
O*Donnell Joseph A. Dwight street Undertaker
Osborne Harrison D. Dwight street Coachman
Pp

Pillsbury Levi Dwight street Lyman Mills
Prevost Jernest Ely street Harnessmaker
Prevost Narcisse C. Center street Insurance Agent
Perry Charles J. Race street Merrick Thread Co.
Potvin Adelard M. Cabot street Clothier
Peters Gustave Park street Machinist
Pratt Alexander Franklin street U. S. Envelope Co.
Pfanner Joseph Newton street Wm. Skinner Mfg. Co.
Pope Ernest Chestnut street Shipping Clerk

JURY LIST  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Priest Charles H. Maple street Laundryman
Parfitt William H. Hampden street Painter
Phelps Frank J. Northampton street Insurance Agent
Pinney Fred R. Pleasant street Real Estate Agent
Potter Charles Waldo street Millwright
Power Seminole M. Howard street Supt: Met. Life Ins. Co.
Prentiss Robert T. Taylor street Retired
Pryer Mercellus Hampden street Real Estate
Parker Frank Appleton street Carpenter
Phillips Francis D. Linden street Holyoke Machine Co.
Piper William J. Walnut street Truckman
Prentice George M. Laurel street Merrick Thread Co.
Parker George D. Bh street Papermaker
Peck Joseph Avon place Linden Paper Co.
Prilay John M. Jackson street Geo. R. Dickinson
Pratte Louis High street Tinner
Prendible Edward F. Bh street Clerk
Prentiss John J. Dwight street Trimmer
Prew Joseph N. Maple street Real Estate
Potter Byron L. Suffolk street Manager
Q
Quigley Francis Kly court Clerk
Quinn John Summer street Fireman
R

Ranger Joseph F. Pleasant street Contractor
Rice Albert H. Waldo street Blacksmith
Rogers Nelson W. Pleasant street Janitor
Ryan John D. Pearl street Journalist
Reid George W. Walnut street Farr Alpaca Co.
Richards Charles H. Oak street Retired
Riley Andrew Munroe street Sausagemaker
Rae Thomas Jr. Brown avenue Thread Twister
Reed John P. Clark street Machine Tender

  JURY LIST
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Richter Julius  Brown avenue Foreman ,
Rogers Justin O. Myrtle avenue Conductor
Rogers Kossuth J. Laurel street Painter
Ross William H. Hitcheock street Merchant
Ruther Moritz E. Glen street Cigarmaker
Rehm Otto C. Springdale avenue Painter
Richardson Roswell M. Jackson street Papermaker
Rittmeyer Heinrich Meadow street Instructor
Rice Patrick Front street Gateman 
Ryan Thomas Maple street Foreman
, Roy John T.  ‘' High street Merchant |
Rutt John M. Linden street Master Mechanic
Ryan Timothy F. Chestnut street Undertaker
Regan Nicholas S. Clinton avenue Gaugeman
Ryan Patriek F. Clinton avenue Cigar Mfr.
Reid David Cabot street Farr Alpaca Co.
Regan James J. Maple street Retired
Rugg Edward H. Maple street Merchant.
Ruelle Maxime  Summer street City
Robertson Williain G. Cabot street White Wyckoff
Rainault Frank Spring street Pool Room
Roberts Clovis Main street Retired
Ryan Charles  Main street Rodman
Ryan John H. West street Paper Finisher
Rowland Eugene Grover street Hamp. G. P. C. Co.
Rogers Wilham B. Dwight street Engineer.
Rief Reuben N. Pleasant street Mechanic .
S
Sutelitfe Samuel Main street Skinner Mfg. Co.
St. Martin Joseph Race street Assessor 
, Spatford Tenry  West street Casper Ranger
Shiney James P.  Ely street Barber
Sheridan John J. Center street Carpenter
Smith Albert Main street Jeweller

|
|
JURY LIST  
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Spring Louis A. Hamilton street Weaver |
Sheridan John F. Center street Carpenter
Sullivan Florence P. Grover street Am. Thread Co.
Sanderson George W. Maple street H. Plush Co.
Shea Patrick T. Maple street Bookbinder
Sheehan Vincent D.P. Maple street Paper Mill Op.
Shine George M. Maple street Clerk
Smith Theodule Maple street Butcher
Stocks Fred D. Worcester place Plumber
Sullivan Michael Chestnut street D. S. Pump Co.
Sears Frank M. Elm street Coachman
Shea Michael F. Appleton street Clerk
Stewart John Maple street Thread Finisher
Sullivan Peter J. Cabot street Cigar Mfr.
Senior Charles A. Hampden street Merchant
Shea Richard Nonotuck street Supt. of Alleys
Snow Melvin N. Allyn street Parsons Paper Co.
Street Austin D. Jr. Northampton street Farmer
Sargent George B. Suffolk street Clerk
Smith Thomas  Bh street Merrick Thread Co.
Spears Wesely D. Bh street Foreman
Sullivan Jeremiah A. Pine street Retired
Suteliffe John B. Bh street Photo Supplies
Schmaelzle John Jr. Willow street. Stamper
Slayton Simeon B. Brown avenue Millwright
Smith Enos D. Brown avenue Papermaker ,
Smith George F. Myrtle avenue Loom Fixer
Spamer George T. South street Machinist |
Seanlan Thomas M. Elm street  Laborer
Scheibel George E. Meadow street H. W. P. Co.
Skinner William Maple street Papermaker |
Suessenguth Henry fr. Main street Machinist. ]
Spencer Henry B. Front street  Telegrapher |
Shea Daniel F.  Wampden street Papermaker
Shea John B. Lyman street Undertaker
Sheenan Daniel Fountain street Mill Operative :

  JURY LIST
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Slattery Jeremiah  Maple street Plumber
Sullivan J. Ilenry Lyman street Merchant
Schott Andrew Oak street Clerk
Sears Henry P. Suffolk street Salesman
Snow Arthur D. Maple street Bookkeeper
Sulhvan Michael Walnut street Bookbinder
Sullivan Michael J. Pine street Brickmason
Sparrow William A. Pine street Merchant
Shelley Frank A. Newton place Engineer
Sullivan Edward P. Suffolk street Salesman
Sullivan James J. Walnut street Merchant
Sullivan Jeremiah F. Dwight street Real Estate
T
Tait John  Elm street Engineer
Tracy Michael D. Maple street Farr Alpaca Co.
Trainor Edward Chestnut street Whitmore Mfg. Co.
Tulloch Archibald C. Chestnut street Machinist
Tyron Willis C. Bond street Papermaker
Thorpe George L. Pearl street Builder
Tilley Trenor P. Northampton street Merchant
Thompson John D. Sargeant street Supt. Boys’ Club
Thayer Henry L. South street Ruler
Tauscher Ernest R. James street Machinist
Tauscher Gustave N. James street Beebe-Webber Co.
Taylor John J. Summer street Clerk .
Thorpe James F. Main street Holyoke Paper Co.
Tiedeman Mareus H. Bridge street Grocer
Therrien Alfred Bowers street Agent
Tetrault Philias J. Bridge street Baker
Thompson Charles Center street Papermaker
Turgeon Louis A. Summer street Building Mover
Thompson James Newton street Engineer
Thompson Robert Walnut street Master Mechanic

JURY LIST  
U
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Utley Lewis S. Maple street Art Designer
V
Van Valkenburg Levi D. Taurel street Overseer
Vincent Anatole J. Main street Artist
W
Wade Frank H. Carleton street Printer
Waite David E. Chapin street Contractor
- Wakelin James I. Northampton street Clerk
Warner Ernest S. Beacon avenue Tea Dealer
Washington Arthur G. IIampden street Plumber
Williams Daniel M. Taylor street Expressman
Whitelock Walter H. Hampden street Deane Steam PumpCo.
Whitcomb Levi S. Elim street Gatekeeper
Williams John B. Walnut street Real Estate
Wing Edwin E. Pine street Clerk
Wolfenden Robert Pine street Grocer
Waite Leonard L. Pine street Cigar Mfr.
White Edmund F. Bh street Paper Box Mfr.
Warren John E. Maple street Clerk
Warren Maurice F. Lyman street Foreman
Waters Peter Walnut street Piper
Woods John H. Oak street Real Estate
Wolohan James J. School street Silk Mill
Wood John M. Walnut street Papermaker
Welch William T. Avon place Farr Alpaca Co.
, Williams Wilham R. Jr. Temple street Weaver
| Warner Clinton M. Elm street Hol. St. Ry. Co.
Wheeler Albert K. South street Overseer
White William E. Magnolia avenue’ Engineer
Williamson Alexander S. South street Dyer
, Winchester Samuel B. oO Laurel street Retired |

  JURY LIST ,
NAME. RESIDENCE. OCCUPATION.
Walsh Michael R. Maple street Machinist
Ward John J. Newton street Dresser Tender
Wesely Joseph J. High street Plumber
Wilson J. Edward Cabot street Smith Tablet Co.
Wall John Race street Motor Works
Whitaker George E.  Race street H. W. W.
Y |
Yenlin Sebastien Park street Baker
Prepared in accordance with the requirements of Chapter of
the Revised Laws of Massachusetts.
CHARLES U. ROY,
THOMAS STANSFIELD, |
JAMES J. DUNN,
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, CLERK.
Board of Registrars of Voters.

CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
. ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Grover. o—John O’Donnell.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Aug. Stursberg.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
, President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —Curtis Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —G. W. Burditt, C. B. Harris,  S. F. Stebbins.
Ward  —Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew
Walsh.
Ward  —W. D. Higgins, H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, John O’Connell, J. A. Sullivan.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —R. M. Fairfield, H. A. Pratt, Reuben Winchester. ,
Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet. —
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

  CITY OFFICERS |
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
- ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Wilhiam Grover. o—Edw. O’Connor.
 —H{. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Matthew Walsh.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —John II. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —John Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler.
Ward  —S. J. Donahue, Peter MeKeon, E. A. Newton.
Ward  --B. F. Bigelow, D. II. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue.
Ward  ——John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —Hloraee Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
; City Clerk—K,. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—Willian Whiting,
Messenver—J. TH. Chitford.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.

) ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. .
 —William Ruddy. o—Maurice Lynch.
 —C. B. Harris.  —C. H. Heywood. .

-  —H. Springborn.  —J.F. Allyn.
 —S. J. Donoghue. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, G. H. Smith.

Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.

Ward  —Chalners Chapin, G. If. Snuth, E. Whitaker.

Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J.  Webber.

Ward  -—C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’Donnell.

Ward  -—B. F. Bigelow, Michael Downime, D. M. -Manning, )

Ward  —-A. D. Barker, J. KE. Delaney, J. TH. Newton.

Ward  —II. C. Ewing,  S. T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.

Clerk—C. W. Rider.

City Clerk—le. A. Ramsay. )

City Treasurer— William Whiting.
— Messenver—.J. TL. Clifford (d ased), J. R. Howes.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, R. P. Crarts.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —M. J. Teahan.  —§. S. Donoghue.
-  —G. H. Smith.  —D. H. Donoghue.
 H. Springborn.*  —C. H. Heywood.
A. Stursberg.  —G. P. Ellison.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. .
President, C. D. Colson.
Ward  —John Ford, Richard Patte, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaae Tirrell.
‘Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Michael Lynch, M. M. Mitivier.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sullivan.
Ward  —E. W. Chapin, E. A. Ramsay, Porter Underwood.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Resiened.


CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING. |
ALDERMEN. |
WARD. WARD.
 —T. S. Grover.  -C. D. Colson.
 —. C. B. Harris.*  —D. E. Sullivan.
G. H. Smith.  —William Skinner.
 A. Stursberg.**  —G. P. Ellison.
James Stafford. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. E. Syms. —
Ward  —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, E. F. Sullivan.
Ward  —James P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte
Marie.
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, E. O’Connor, Thomas Pendergast.

Ward  —Ilenry C. Cady, J. S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.

#Died March **Resigned.

  CITY OFFICERS |
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING.
ALDERMEN. |
WARD. WARD.
 William Ruddy.  —D. E. Sullivan.

-  -—F. R. Norton.  William Skinner.
 —Henry Winkler.  —William S. Perkins.
 +—Charles D. Colson. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
‘President, John O’Donnell.

Ward  —G. C. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D. Walsh.

Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin P.
Goodall. |

Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.

‘Ward  +—Vietor Guvott, Peter McKeon, T. J. Ryan.

. Ward  —Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O’Donnell. .

Ward  —IT. C. Cady, J.  MeElwain, Levi Perkins.

Ward  —Berijah If. Kaewin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden
W. Prentiss.

Clerk—Simon Brooks. :

City Clerk—James EK. Delaney.

City Treasurer—James R. Lowes.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
. Mayor, WILLIAM Ruppy.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —John D. Walsh.  -—John O'Donnell.
 —F.. R. Norton.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —Henry Winkler.  —William S. Perkins.
 —James P. Casey.  Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN,
Ward  —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W.
Maher.
Ward  —John J. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John
McDonald.
Ward  —Pierre Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy
J. Ryan.
Ward  —Miehael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy
Haley,
Ward  —Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A.
Whiting.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kaewin, Origen H. Merrick, John ;
B. Munn.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenver—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS.
, CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, F. P. GooDALL.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger. o—D. J. Landers.
 —Fred Morrison.  —K. A. Whiting.
 —P. J. Sheridan.  —R. Winchester.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Hervey K. Hawes.
Ward  —Michael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel S.
Chapman.
Ward  —Royal C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller, Dwight
O. Judd.
Ward  —Ilerbert Hicks, Lyman F. Thorpe, Charles R.
Hleubler.
Ward  —George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E.
Herbert.
Ward  —James  Lee, John F. Shea, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H.
Smith.
Ward  —Charles C. Hastings, Lyman B. Moore, John B.
Munn. ;
Clerk—Simon Brooks. ,
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett...

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
 Mayor, RosweEuu P. Crarts.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger. o—John O’Donnell.
 —-Isaac Tirrell.  —William A. Chase.
 —C. R. Heubler. i—W. T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
| COMMON COUNCILMEN. |
President, Amos Andrews. ,
| Ward  —William Brennan, James Spillane, William H.
Jess.
Ward  —E. R. Pierce, Joseph Beauchemin, George W.
Richards.
Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. Driscoll, W. E. O’Keefe.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward d—Maurice Lynch, Thomas Pendergast, Michael
O’Keefe. ;
Ward  —aAmos Andrews, H. H. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings. L. L. Hooker, A. N. Rieker.
Clerk—J. F. Stapleton.
| City Clerk—James E. Delaney. ,
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M.. Hackett. oe

  CITY OFFICERS
. CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ROSWELL P. CRAFTS. |
| ALDERMEN,
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.
 —Isaae Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —John T. Lynch.  —W. T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. |
President, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —William H. Jess, John M. Sheridan, M. .
, Browne.
Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, Frank S. Lynch, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sullivan.
Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, D. H. Ives, A. N. Ricker. .
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

, CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES EB. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —James Greeley. dS—E. O'Connor.
 —Isaae Tirrell. €—KEhas P. Ford.
 —Jcehn T. Lynch.  —C. C. Hastings.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. ,
President, Roger P. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey.
Ward  —George W. Richards, Didace Sainte-Marie,
, Thomas H. Sears. ;
Ward  —John Loweock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.
Ward  —Willham Sullivan,* Matthew Doherty, Thomas
O'Donnell, Amede F. Gingras.
Ward  —Roger’ P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody,
Michael Manning.
Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli L. Brockett, John J.
Reardon.
Ward  —Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M.
Gilmore. :
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Died November .

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E, DELANEY. )
ALDERMEN. |
WARD. WARD.
 —William Reardon.  —R. P. Donoghue.
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Ehi J. Brockett.
 —J. K. MeCarthy.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. .
President, Thomas J. Carmody. |
Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G.
MeCarthy.
Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F.
Doyle.
Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F. Canavan.
Ward  —Thomas O’Donnell, P. F. Carmody, Matthew
Doherty.
Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas J. Fitz
verald.
Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, C. II. Whiting, John L.
Burlingame.
Ward  —John K. Judd,  B. Allyn, S. M. Gilmore,®
Creorge W. Doane. OS
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. a
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin. City Treasurer—E. L. Munn.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
* Resigned. ST
—"

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O’CONNor.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —J. J. Sheridan. X—R. P. Donoghue.
 —Francis J. Curley.  —William E. Syms.
 —James J. Curran.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John K. Judd.

Ward  —James C. Keough, Wilham A. Casey, Jeremiah
G. MeCarthy.

Ward  —James Hl. Fitzsimmons, Edward Donohue,
James W. Toole. |

Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J.
Westphal.

Ward  —-James H. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning. Matthew Doherty.

Ward d—James F. Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F.
Greaney. .

Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, Charles HE. Whiting,
Charles L. Neweomb.

Ward  —John K. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M. Cain.

Clerk—John I. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Oscear Ely.

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. OCONNOR.
ALDERMEN. |
WARD. WARD.
;  —William II. Jess. s—James F. Cleary.
 ». James W. Toole. é—NWilhain E. Symes.
 —Henry Winkler.  J—Jehn Hildreth.
— $-—John Dillen. Clerk, M. J. Gaoiffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN,.
President, James C. Keouch.
. Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholomew J. Lynch. 
Ward  —Edward Donohue, Thomas J. Gabson, Naziilre
Beliveau. .
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bleumer.
Ward  -—Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis Ss.
Paquette.
Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.
Ward  —Charles L. Neweomb, Henry E. MeElwain, Jd.
Sanford Webber.
Ward  —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Riehard C.
Kilduff.
Clerk John EF. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin,
City Treasurer—FEdwin L. Munn,
Vessenger— William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN,
WARD. WARD.
 —lL. F. Haywood, Jr.  —John Dillon.
 —J. W. Toole.  —H. BE. McElwain.
H. Winkler.*  —C. Iu. Neweomb.
  —John Hildreth.
M. Manning. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.,
President, Michael J. Lavelle.
Ward  —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John
Blasius.
Ward  —Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Beltveau.
 Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C.
Kelly.
Ward +—John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis
Ilerbert.
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D.
Perkins.
Ward  —Charles L. Allen, Lucius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.
Ward  —Georee L. Thorpe, John Longway, Jr., George
V. Osgood.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—KEdwin L. Munn. .
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
*Resigned June  .

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD.  WARD.
 —John C. Sullivan. d—Richard Shea.
 —William Buckley.  —Dennie L. Farr.
 —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
 —Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
| COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, J. J. Callanan.

Ward  —John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen.

Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J.
Kennedy.

Ward  —James F. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J.
Taylor.

Ward  —Patrick A. Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene Shea.

Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W.
Doran.

Ward  —Lueius Ely, C. L. Allen, James L. Davis.

Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George
V. Osgood. ;

Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.

City Clerk—Aichael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.

Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.

F |

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
, Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
. ALDERMEN.
. WARD. WARD.
 —M. P. Conway. o—A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  —C. D. Colson.
 —George Spamer.  —FE. L. Squier.
 +—N. J. Baker. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas Connor.
Ward  —William Broekway, Joseph A. Peltier, Maurice
J. Sullivan. |
Ward  —Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C.
O’Leary.
Ward  —Herman Heinritz, John J. Taylor, Onesime
Viens.
Ward  —Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  —Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles MeCollister.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Mederie J.
Laporte.
Ward  —Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Fredrick
C. Steele.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Dennie lL. Farr.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —M. P. Conway. o—J. J. Callanan. |
 —T. J. Kennedy.  —J. P. Prescott.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —R. P. Donoghue. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway, John H. Ryan, Maurice J.
Sullivan.
Ward  —John Blaek, Arthur B. C. DeLaunay, Cornelius
O'Leary.
Ward  —Max C. Burkhardt. Ulne Perreault, Albert. C.
Renner.
Ward  —Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  -——John FE. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel J.
O'Connell.
; Ward  —Mederie J. Laporte, Stephen BK. Gifford, John
 Maller. |
Ward -Lawrence TH. Fortier, Charles  MeColhister,
Henry D. Willams.
Clerk—John FL Stapleton,
City Clerk—Thomas D. O'Brien.
(ity Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.

; CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Wilhiam Laney. A. Higginbottom.
 Antoine Mareotte.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael ‘Connors. I—F. C. Steele.
 —Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O'Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN,
President, Henry D. Williams.

Ward  —Joseph Hebert, Henry L. Mohan, John Hf. Ryan.

Ward  —John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.

Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perreault, Paul Sehubach.

Ward  —Frank O. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P.
Sullivan,

Ward  —William L. Bishop, Patrick TP Brennan, Wilham B. Miles.

Ward  —Fred IL. Gilpatriek, George E. Pickup, Frank
C. Webber.

Ward  —Lawrence I]. Fortier, Charles Hk. MeCollister,
Henry D. Wilhams.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk —Thomas D. O'Brien.

City Treasurer—Dennie Ll. Farr.

Messeneer— William To) Walsh. 

  CITY. OFFICERS .
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, DENNIE L. Farr.
ALDERMEN.
President, Michael Connors.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Haney. a—J. J. Callanan.
 —F red St. Martin.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Miechael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 +—T. J. Dillon. Clerk, T. D. O'Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
‘President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Patrick Gear, Joseph Iebert, David H. Toole.
Ward  —Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril T.
Labreeque. ;
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest
R. Tauscher. }
| Ward  —Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O’Connor,
Daniel P. Sullivan.
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Tainehan.
Ward  —Fred I]. Gilpatrick, John Naylor, Frank .
Webber.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edward B. Evans, Charles M.
 Tfartzell.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
(itv Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.


CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MARCIENE H. WHITCOMB.
ALDERMEN.
 President, Rufus B. Holmes.
WARD. WARD.
 —T. J. Lynch.  —R. S. Burns.
 —F. St. Martin. €—James A. Allyn.
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 —P. W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN,
President, John TL. Connor.
Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole,* John Daly,
James Wall.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H.
Prendiville.
Ward  —Max Bretsechneider, Victor  Laplante, Ernest
R. Tauscher.
Ward  —Frank Fitzverald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyme
S. Menard.
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Elbert Goss, Frederick N. Rieker, Edward N.,
White.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles MM.
Hartzell.
Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resiened.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, HENRY A. CHASE.
ALDERMEN.
WARD, WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. o—Riehard  Burns.
  Fred St. Martin. C—John Wall.
 —Richard H. Dietz.  J—Ceerge H. Lynds.
 +—Thomas J. Lynch.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John LL. Connor.

Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
QO ‘Leary.

Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patriek H.
Prendiville.

Ward  —John  Donoghue, Victor  Laplante, William
J. Mahoney.

Ward  —John J. MeIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F.
Sullivan,

Ward  —Edmund I]. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah
J. Linehan.

Ward  -— Edwin M. Chase, Elbert Goss, Caleb J. [umeston.

Ward  —Conrad V. Tem, Charles P. Randall, Wilham

) QO. White.

Clerk—Damel W. Kenney.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvonloi.

(ity Messenver—Wilham T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  s
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. CURRAN, )
ALDERMEN.
President, Timothy J. Lynch. :
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. a—Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 Adam Leining.  —Frank Feather.
 +—Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
, COMMON COUNCILMEN,.
President, Patrick HW. Prindiville.

Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary. |

Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr., Henry P. Cunningham,
Patrick Hl. Prendiville.

Ward  —John H. Connor, Williain J. Mahoney, Patrick
W. O'Rourke.

Ward  —Williain J. Dillon, John J. Melntee, John J.
Riley.

Ward  —Edmund I]. Alger, Edward J. Kenney, William
OConnell,

Ward  —Wilham D. Bunnell, Thomas HI. Kearney,
Henurv Reed.

Ward  —James Collingwood, Charles Randall, Homer J.
Stratton.

Clerk—John P. MeTicue.

City Clerk—Kdward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger— William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, GEorRGE H. SMITH.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Henry A. Collins. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
| Salime J. Benoit. Wilham J. Ryan.
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George Savoy.
 Morris) Hieks. James H. Staples.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. o—Jerennah J. Linehan.
 Fred Gervais.  —FElbert Goss.
 —Frank Feather. —Charles P. Randall.
$— Patrick J. O'Connor.
City Clerk—KEdward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City. Messenger—William T. Walsh.

t .
CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, MICHAEL CONNORS.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Hugh Mclean.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sy.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Henry A. Collins. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh MeLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. y—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Samuel Mivneault.  —Elbert Gess.
 —Frank Feather. i—James I]. Wyhe, Jr.
 —James  Lacey. .
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Williain T. Walsh. |

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN. .
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
| Patrick F. Donoghue. Jcseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Hlueh MeLean.
Adam Leining. Willian MeCorkindale.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Jeseph J. Beaudry. J. Jcseph Doran.
Williaa D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward LL. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD, WARD.
 —Timethy J. Lyneh.  Michael J. Dovle.
 —Namnel Mieneault.  —Wilham G. Beaudro.
 -—Moritz EB. Ruther.  —Frank B. Towne.
 Joseph A. Donnell.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Messenver—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN,
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur MI. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J. Jeseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. Jchn Stalker.
Jchn K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
. Marciene H. Whiteomb.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Jcseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Willian MeCorkindale.
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
Edwin LL. Squier.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Jehn P. M .  —Miehael J. Doyle.
 Arthur R. Vineent. —William G. Beaudro.
 —Herbert C. Clark.  J—Frank B. Towne.
 —Fl]orenee Donoghue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane. .
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
| City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran,

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Michael J. Doyle.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
William G. Beaudro. John J. Finn.
Edward F. Dowd. Charles S. Hemingway.
William O. Ducharme. James M. Kennedy.
: William MecCorkindale.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. Jchn Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 -——Dennis O'Leary. »—Michael J. Doyle.
 Eugene Laramay.  -—Jehn C. Carlin.
 —John R. Allan.  —Frank B. Towne.
 t—F rank B. Towne. |
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.*
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.**
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Comnuttees—John C. Doran.
*Died Apr .
**ISlected City Clerk by Board of Aldermen April .
 |

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
Ceorge B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Charles S. Hemingway. Edward F. Dowd.
William O. Ducharme. Wilham G. Beaudro.
Jcehn J. Finn. James M. Kennedy.
Wilham MeCorkindale.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. ,
WARD. WARD.
 —Dennis O'Leary. o—EFugene F. Kane.
 —FEugene Laramay. John D. Dearden.
 —Leon W. Bliss. -Themas W. Holley.
+--- Alexander O’Brien.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran,

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
John R. Allan. Wilham A. Allyn.
William G. Beaudro. Tra J. Tumes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy. —
William Lambert.
: ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
| Ceorge Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
(‘eorge B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jehn D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber.
| ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD. ,
 —Patrick J. Sullivan. s—Enugene F. Kane.
 —Mugene Laramay.  —James Devine.
 —Leon W. Bliss.  —Themas W. Holley.
 —Jehn T. Sheehan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees-—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
, ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
(Gieorge Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
Wilham G. Beaudro. Ira J. ILumes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy. :
William Lambert.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Patriek J. Sullivan. o—John J. White.
 —Vietor S. Laplante.  —Hlerbert Ainley.
 —William F. Wicks.  —Rohert P. Cunninghain.
 +d. Henry Sullivan.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan. .

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Conmittees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  }
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
John R. Allan. Ira J. Humes.
William A. Allyn. Michael J. Kearns.
William J. Cray. James M. Kennedy.
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). |
Ceorge Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
eon W. Bliss. (ecrge B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
. Frank (. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Samuel N. Bogart.  -—Richard Connor.
 —Vietor S. Laplante.  —Herbert E. Ainley.
 —Wiliam F. Wieks.  —Robert P. Cunningham.
 —.J. Henry Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. ,
' Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Herbert E. Ainley. James Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Noonan.
Frederick Childs. Henry J. Soutiere.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
William A. Allyn. Ira J. Humes.
William J. Cray. Michael J. Kearns.
Thomas H. Finn. James M. Kennedy. .
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. ,
WARD. WARD.
 —Dennis O'Leary. dS—Richard Connor.
 —Frank Rainault.  —Frank Linnehan.
 —William F. Wicks.  —Jessie BE. Sheldon.
 —J. Henry Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan. |
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Cemmittees—John C. Doran.


* ™— 

e
.
.
*
.
.
’

.

e
.

Signized by Google

- UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
es TTT
crc  
rare FF

“FS ACE
Soomaali  s

|

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
es TTT
Pn  

NN Oo oy A
“Rs. Mace Ss
sa aall iGoogle



