REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
will warrant, to continue this  -inch main from the City Farm
through to and along Northampton street, and connect it with
the  -inch main at Gilman street in Elmwood. The laying of
the present installment has also benefited the abutters along
the line, both in the way of supplying them with water for
domestic purposes and by giving them better fire protection,
with its incentive to lower rates for fire insurance; seven fire )
hydrants having been installed at different points along the
line. |

The main pipes in Cabot and Sargeant streets were ex‘tended across the second level canal and connected with the

 main on the other side; the Sargeant street pipe being laid
as far as Main street, and new mains have been laid in Spring
street and Adams street, easterly, and connected with the
main pipe in Park street. )

Two hundred and thirty-two feet of  -inch and feet
of  -inch pipe were laid in Hillside avenue, from the Westfield road, northerly, and connected with the main pipe at

 King street, and connection was made between the  -inch
and  -inch mains in South street.

The laying of these mains has greatly increased the fire
service facilities in the several sections; that in South street
being of very great benefit to the whole south part of the city.

| Five hundred and twenty feet of  -inch pipe was laid in ,
Bowers street from Appleton street north, to eonnect with
the  -inch main at Pequot street.

Fifty-nine hydrants, of them being  -inch, two-way
hydrants  with steamer connection) and one  nch, threeway, were installed during the year, and five  -inch, one-way
hydrants were replaced with  -ineh, two-way.

The new hydrants have been placed in different parts of
the city, in accordance with the recommendations of the Board

* of Fire Commissioners; nine hydrants, three of which had
steamer connections, being installed in [heh street, between
Lyman and Cabot streets, thus affording better fire fighting
facilities.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

In this connection we think it eminently fitting to call
attention to the splendid showing of this department at the
fire in the McAuslan Wakelin building on December  ,
when, with seventeen lines of hose through which water was
being supplied at the same time, seven steamers pumping, the ,
pressure at the High street engine house did not fall below  
pounds, which is only about pounds below the average
normal pressure and on opening the gate at the Whiting street
upper reservoir, letting the supply from that reservoir directly
into the pipes, the pressure rose to  and at o’clock, to
  pounds. It is estimated that about gallons of water’
per minute, for about seven hours, were drawn from the sys- —
tem, total of upwards of gallons, and the pressure
never fell more than eight pounds below normal. record of
the pressure, taken at the High street engine house every five
minutes from a. m. to p. m., will be found on another
page of the report.

Provision was made for taking care of the surplus water
from Tannery reservoir, by connecting it with the small
pond on the westerly side of the road between Wright and 
Bray reservoirs; about feet of  -inch Akron pipe being
required for the work. From this small pond the water runs
along till it finds its way through the culvert into Wright pond.

A coping, one foot in height, was added to the walls of
the rock cut canal, raising them somewhat more above high
water line, and giving the walls more finished appearance.
The banking at the south of the canal has been graded and a
roadway put through. Owing to an accident to the canai wall,
entailing considerable expense, the work was retarded some,
but was finally carried forward to completion.

The land to the south of high service reservoir has been
improved, the stumps having been burned and blind ditches
built to take care of any surplus water in that neighborhood.

The weirs at the several reservoirs have been given attention and the engineer has been asked to keep record of the
overflow for future guidance.

| REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Mechanical measurement float gauges and rain and snow
gauges have been installed at each of the reservoirs, and a
daily record is being kept of the rainfall and the height of the
water in the reservoirs. This data will be of considerable
value later on.

Pressure gauges were furnished the Fire Department for
use in the High street, South Holyoke, Elmwood and Highlands engine houses. The placing of these gauges enables the
department to keep better informed as to the pressure in the
localities named.

Beginning February  the cent and cent rates
for metered water were abolished and new flat rate of  
cents per eubie feet, or cents per gallons, was
established, with discount of per cent for payment on or
before the fifteenth day of the month.

Test meters are to be placed in number of houses,
apartment blocks and business blocks this coming year for the
purpose of ascertaining the quantity of water used by the
various consumers, the chairman having been authorized to
have them installed. The results are to be used as basis in
determining what best to do in the matter of meters for the
users of water for domestic and store purposes.

A table has been prepared showing the comparative cost
of water for the year under fixed and metered rates in few 
tenement and business blocks, the data for metered cost being
obtained from test meters. This table may be seen on another
page of the report and will be found of considerable interest.

The high service reservoir was filled in April, and overflowed on April  but was not put into commission until
June  The section south of Sargeant street and west of
Maple street, namely Elmwood, and part of the Oakdale seetion, were at first supplied, and later the Highlands and the
rest of the Oakdale section were added to the territory supplied by this new reservoir. The pressure rose from about  
pounds to pounds at Elmwood, and corresponding increase in pressure was noted in the Highlands section.

, REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

The main pipe through the rock eut, which was laid when
the works were first established, was, however, not equal to
the increased pressure; several leaks, one of them due to a
broken pipe, appearing. After replacing the broken length
of pipe and recalking some of the joints which needed attention the water was again turned on, but new leaks were discovered and it was finally decided to cut off the supply from
this reservoir until new main pipe could be laid outside of
the canal. In repairing the leaks in the rock eut pipe it was
necessary, in order to keep the city supplied, to carry the water
im sluiceway, from bulkhead located about eight hundred
feet east of the Wright pond gatehouse, over the place needing
to be repaired, and then discharging it into the canal at a
point above the rock eut gatehouse. The water between these
two points had then to be pumped out, so that the pipe could
be gotten at, and to do this proved to be quite difficult task,
besides making the repairs on the pipe very expensive. Plans
were adopted and the pipe contracted for, for the laying of a
new  -inch main along the south bank of the canal, to be used
for the high service system. We expect to have this new
main laid and in operation this coming summer.

, Some trouble was experienced in midsummer with the
water from the Whiting street upper reservoir, the taste and :
odor from it for time being quite unpleasant, if not offensive.
This was noticed more particularly the middle or last of

| Jtne, when, in order to help the pressure at some of the higher
points, the water from the upper reservoir was fed directly
into the main leading to the city.

From tests made by the City Engineer, Mr. Tighe, the

- main eause of this disagreeable odor and taste was tound to
be from vegetable growth known as anabaena. After consulting with the engineer about it, the Board decided to encage Mr. Allen T[azen, an expert in such matters, to make an
exainination of this reservoir and reeommend such measures
as he considered best. After receiving his report, in which
he recommended the construction of intermittent sand filters,

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
and considering it for time, it was decided to build an
aerating fountain below the dam of Whiting street upper reservoir, and conduct the water to the intake reservoir after passing through this fountain, plan suggested by Mr. Allen
Hazen for improving the condition of the water, should there
be delay in the construction of the filters. It was also decided
to lav new  -inch main from Madison avenue at Nonotuck
street to connect with the  -inch main in School street, and
use the Whiting street reservoir water in the low service

- system; the high service reservoir to be used for supplying the
Elmwood and Highland sections. Accordingly, bids for supplying the pipe were asked and the contract awarded.

Two important measures adopted by the Board this year
were those requiring the disconnecting of all outlets from the
fire service pipes at the mills which were used for other than
fire purposes, and the sealing of all outlets from the sprinkler
svstems. The reason for this action was that it had been
found the water from the fire system was used at times through —
carelessness of some of the employees, without proper return
being made for it. copy of the vote passed, which also
required that this department be notified when any of the
seals were broken, was mailed to each of the mills.  .

In order to better protect the watershed of the Ashley
pond sysem, the Board has made arrangements for purchasing the property owned by the Schuetzen Bund and occupied
by them for picnic and shooting club purposes. It is pleasing
to note that the overtures of the Board looking to the purchase of this property were met on the part of the Schuezen
Bund people in public-spirited manner, making it much
easier to complete the arrangements regarding its transfer.
The Board also entered into an agreement with William Murray for the purchase from him of parcel of land on this same
watershed.

} In compliance with the order adopted by your Honorable
Board on August of the current year, authorizing and requesting this Board to petition the General Court for per  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
mission to harvest and sell ice eut from the ponds controlled
by the city, the Board voted to petition the Legislature for
the enactment of legislation giving them this right.
To establish more equitable basis upon which to depreciate the construction account, which is used as basis for levying the tax which this department pays to the city each year,
it has been decided, after giving the matter much thought and
after consulting with the engineer and superintendent, to depreciate this account two per cent.
It is believed that under this new arrangement the city
will be benefited by the increased value of its water works
plant without working undue hardship in the way of burdensome tax, and that two per cent is only fair depreciation
when allowance is made for the fact that small mains have ,
from time to time to be replaced by larger ones in addition to
the natural depreciation from incrustation and other causes.
We are pleased to note decrease in the total consumption
for the year, as compared with the year before, of over
  gallons. There has been an abundance of water, 
and for the most part it has been of excellent quality.
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
Cost reported December d.: 
Increase during the year:
Main pipe extensions............ 
Hydrants .............. -----  
Reservoirs  ...       |
Rock eut eanal ...............-.  |
Meters ........     :
William J. Murray, land.........  
Ifolyoke Sechuetzen Bund, land...  
—-—-— —— 
$ 
Depreciation, two per cent........  
$ 

N
REPORT OF WATER BOARD. The cast  ron mains were extended feet. For location, size and length of extensions see Table A.

The length of cast iron mains is miles; and of
temporary wrought iron, miles. For location, size and
length of mains see Tables and C.

Sixty-two gates were set in new locations. The total number to date is  For location and size see Tables and E.

Fifty-nine hydrants were set in new locations, and six
were replaced. The total number of public fire hydrants is
 For location, ete., see Tables and G. Following Table
G is summary of fire service in the various mills in the
eity, which is additional to the above. |

Twenty-two meters were set in new locations, and dis- —
eontinued, making the total now in use  For make, size
and location see Table H.

Eighty-one service pipe connections were added during
the year and seventeen discontinued, making the total number
in use to date  |

Ten leaks in service pipes and in main pipes have been
repaired.

The average depth of water in the gatehouse at Wright
pond for the year was feet, inches.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND DECEMBER .
(Bonds due in  and  .) |
Amount reported December ,
(  ...         
Amount reported December .
( Lo.   ees  
Amount reported December ,
( .....      ees  
| ——— 
Increase during the year:
| Interest on bank deposits............. 
Interest on bonds....................  
Interest on loans on real estate........  
, ———— 
Transfers from Water Rents account.  
oe 
INVESTMENT.
Loans on real estate................. 
Thirty-four City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds........  
Cash in Home National Bank......... 
Cash in City National Bank..........  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank.......  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank...  
——  
| 
, Examined and approved '
WALTER W. EATON,
Public Accountant. 
January .

| REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE SEVERAL BOND ISSUES.

Bonds due in  .
Loans on real estate..............     
Cash in Holyoke National Bank.................  
$ 
, Bonds due in  ,
Loans on real estate..........-  
Twenty-three City of Holyoke Gas and Electrie .
Light Bonds .......... ee   ees  
Cash in Home National Bank......... 
Cash in ITadley Falls National Bank...  
———.  
, 
Bonds due in  :
Loans on real estate..............-. .-+ 
Eleven City of Holyoke Gas and Eleetric Light
Bonds .......            
Cash in City National Bank....................  
$  ,
All of which is respectfully submitted,
HUGH McLEAN,
: A. M. FRENCH,
M. J. DOYLE,
Water Commissioners.
HoLyoxke, December .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR  AS REGISTERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.

Gallons Oper capi

January,  
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
December,  
Total consumption

for year  

Largest week, August to  gallons per capita.

Smallest week, November to December  gallons
per capita.

Largest day, July  gallons per capita.

Smallest day, April  gallons per capita.
Daily average for year, gallons per capita.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Record of pressure at the High street engine house from
  a. m. to p. m. on dav of fire at the McAuslan Wakelin
building, December :
Average normal pressure lbs. |
oo OE as STS  an  Tm
Time Pressure Time Pressure Time Pressure
|
 a.m.| Ibs.  a.m.; Ibs. p.m.| lbs.
 “e  ‘*  ‘
  “*  
,   “
  ‘§ *s ‘§  ‘
   “
 |]    ‘
  ey  ‘§ “
  “
   ‘*  ‘
*  “*  ‘* **
Time Pressure Time Pressure
  p.m.| Ibs. p.m.} Ibs. .
   *
. TO &
  ‘§  “*   ‘
  *§ TS TO  *§   ‘§  “s
  TO  TO ‘§  s“   sc wel)  s
*Gate at Whiting street upper reservoir opened.
During the progress of the fire there were lines of hose
drawing water from hydrants; seven steamers pumping.
Estimated draught gallons per minute for seven
hours, or about gallons altogether.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Table showing comparative cost of water for twelve
months at fixed and metered rates. :
Cost at metered rate being based on actual consumption
as registered by test meters.
Cost at metered rate,
Occupancy Cost at including rental
Fixed Rates of meter
  family block (no baths) ** ‘*  *“*  
ce  baths)  bath) ‘* modern apartment block ‘* block, bakery market  
Monitor block, public baths,  
stores  
Business block, families, stores ;
Totals 

| REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY POND.
January  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.;  th, ft. in.;  th,

  ft. in.

February  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in. |

March  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;

 th, ft. in.;  st, ft. in.

April  th, ft.;  th, ft.;  st, ft. in.  th, ft. in.

May Sth, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;

:  th, ft. in. ,

June  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in;
 d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.

July Tth, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  st, ft.

TY, in.;  th, ft. in.

August  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. m.;  th, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.

September Ist, ft. in.;  th, ft.;  th, ft. in.;
 d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.

October  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.
  in.;  th, ft. in.

November  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.
 in.;  th, ft. mm.

December Ist, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.
  in.;  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in. |
Average height for the year, ft. in.

Height of overflow, ft. im.
STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE
WATER WORKS, DECEMBER .

Population  estimated,  .

Date of construction,  .

Works owned by the city.

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

Source of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage
reservoir, three and one-half miles from the city, two
mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the southwest branch of the Manhan river—intake reservoir at
Southampton.

Mode of supply—gravity.

FINANCIAL.
RECEIPTS. ,
A. Water rates, fixed, toe   
, B. Water rates, metered,  ...  

C. Total receipts from water, 

D. Service pipe, .).  

E. All other sourees, .).  

F. Gross receipts,. $ 

G. Cash balance January  ,.  

$ 
EXPENDITURES.

AA. Management and repairs, 

BB. Services and repairs,  

CC. Running expenses for  

DD. Interest on bonds, ...  

EE. Total maintenance, , 

FF. Commissioners of Sinking Fund, City of

Holyoke, taxes, re  

GG. Transfers to Sinking Funds, 

HH. Materials, labor, ete.  ?. 

II. Cash on hand and banks,  ...  

JJ. Balanee to construction,  ...  

$ 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
CONSTRUCTION.
Balance re 
KK. Extension main pipe,. 
LL. Hydrants, woe 
MM. Reservoirs, woe ele  
NN. Rock ecuteanal,  
OO. Meters,   }
PP. Land purchases, 
————  
QQ. Depreciation, two per cent, 
W. Net cost of works to date, .. 
X. Bonded debt,. ..  
Y. Value of sinking funds, December  ..  
CONSUMPTION.
 Population,  estimated, toe  Estimated population on line of pipe,  Estimated population supphed,.  Total gallons consumed, 
). Passed through meters cea 
  Passed through meters ST  Average daily consumption, gallons,. Gallons per day toeach inhabitant ..  Gallons per day to each consumer ),  Gallons per day toservicetap  ..  
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and east iron
and lead lined. |
 From one-half inch to thirty )
inches.
 Extended, feet large.
 Discontinued Ce none

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
o. Main,  -inch and upwards  miles
 Temporary mains, lessthan ineches .. miles
 Total length of distribution miles
 Number of leaks in city,  in Fomer
line, Bee  Cost of repairs per mile  Hydrants added Be Hydrants now in use (public) ..  
and private hydrants, (see table G.)
 Stopgatesadded  ...  Stop gates now im use (see foot of table E.)  Stop gates less than  -imch  ...  Number of blow-off gates )
 Range of pressure on main office, per day
and night, to pounds.
Main street, per dav and night, to
  pounds.
|  Stand pipesadded  wl, none
 Stand pipesnowinuse ... Gates repaired  ... ee.  ?
.  Gates replaced  
SERVICE.
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, east iron,
, lead lined, tin lined and galvanized.
 From one-half to  -inch size of service.
,  Leaks Ce  Cleaned Bo  Frozen service thawed out  ...  Replaced services  ...  Extended (estimated) Be feet
 Discontinued re  Total now in use (estimated).  feet
 Services added  ees  Numbernowimuse ..  ...  Average leneth of service oo...) feet

, REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  Average cost of service ... Meters added we  Meters discontinued  Metersrepaired ...  Meters now in use re  Meters now inuse,test ...  Motors and elevators discontinued...  Motors and elevators added Motors and elevators now inuse Gates repaired .)  Hydrants replaced ...  Hvydrants discontinued .) none
 Hydrants repaired )..  Sidewalk boxes repaired 
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER .BOARD.
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO
DECEMBER .
WATER COMMISSIONERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE WORK— |
ELECTED BY THE TOWN OF HCLYOKE.
WILLIAM B. C. PEarsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
Mareh term expired February .
, JOUN DELANEY, elected March term expired
February .
JOHN E. CrfAseE, elected March resigned March,
 .
DENNIs Hucarns, elected March term expired :
February |
JOEL RUSSELL, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February J. P. BuckLanp, Clerk of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
L. P. Boswortu, successor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February .
C. W. RANLET, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.
ENGINEERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS.
Messrs. SHEDD Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting
engineers.
E. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.
Davis ELLSworRTH, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis,
May,  .
MOSES STEVENS, pipe Inspector.
WATER COMMISSIONERS ELECTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
J. P. BUCKLAND, elected February term expired
February .
DENNIS Hiacins, elected February term expired
January .
JAMES G. SMITH, elected February deceased July
  .
J. A. SULLIVAN, elected February term expired
January .
| JAMES F. ALLYN, elected February term expired
— January .
C. H. Heywoonp, elected July term expired January .
Timotiry Merrick, elected January term expired January .
Maurice Lyncu, elected January term expired
January  .
James E, DELANEY, elected January resignation
accepted January .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  

Moses NEwTON, elected January term expired
January .

JAMES J. CURRAN, elected January resignation
accepted February .

Martin P. Conway, elected January term expired January ,

CHARLES D. CoLson, elected January term expired February :

JoHN J. SULLIVAN, elected January term expired February .

THomAs F. Greaney, elected January term expired February .

JOSEPH A. SKINNER, elected January term expired February .

Maurice Lyncu, elected January déceased January .

ARTHUR M. FRENCH, elected February .

Huey McLean, elected January .

| MicHAEL J. Dove, elected January .
OFFICERS OF THE HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.

Moses STEVENS, Superintendent, appointed February  ,
 term expired April resigned.

DANIEL HEywoop, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October sucded by E. M. Bolton.

E. M. Bouton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned.

E. P. Cuark, Registrar, appointed July resigned
January .

J. C. SuLLIVAN, Registrar, appointed January  resigned January .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD. 
. A. E. Pickup, appointed February .

JOHN D. Harpy, Superintendent, appointed May .
E. M. Bouton, Inspector, appointed July Service

terminated March .
J. F. CLEary, Inspector, appointed March .
T. E. SuLuivan, Inspector, appointed March .
EUGENE F. Kang, Inspector, appointed October .
JOSEPH B. WausuH, Inspector, appointed October .
DANIEL F. Cray, Inspector, appointed October .

ANNUAL REPORT |
| OF THE ,
School Department
OF THE |
City OF HOLYOKE, Mass. |
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOV.  ,
|  .
KEIRIAETAN }
Sica
Os OY
SIM INE DS
| Ho.tyoxeE, Mass.
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING Co.
.  .

: Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
 OFFICE IN ELM STREET BUILDING. |
Hon. NATHAN P. AVERY, Mayor. 
. EDWARD J. GORMAN,
’ CHAIRMAN.
JAMES J. O’DONNELL,
SECRETARY AND SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS.
; TERM EXPIRES JAN.
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,  
At Large) DR. GEORGE Il. CLARK,  
Ward  —DANIEL M. FOLEY, ..  
, Ward  —ODILON Z. E. CHAREST, 
Ward  —ABRAHAM DAVIS, .. .. ..  
Ward  —JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN. .. ..  
Ward  —JAMES T. McTIGUE,  
Ward  —-EDWARD J. GORMAN, ...—.—s 
Ward  —FREDERICK §. WEBBER, 

Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  OFFICE IN ELM STREET BUILDING.
Regular Meeting, First Monday in the Month.
(January, First Tuesday.)
Hon. NATITAN P. AVERY, Ayor.
ODILON Z. E. CHAREST, .
CHAIRMAN,
JAMES J. O'DONNELL,
SECRETARY AND SUPERINTENDENT OF SCILOOLS.
| TERM EXPIRES JAN.
At Laree (JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK, 
ee" EDR. GEORGE TL CLARK, 
Ward  —DANIEL M. FOLEY, oo.)  
Ward  —ODILON Z. E. CITAREST,  .)  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH.  |
Ward  +—JOSEPH EF. SULLIVAN,  
Ward d—JAMES T. McTIGUE,  ...) 
Ward  —EDWARD J. GORMAN, 
Ward  —FREDERICK S. WEBBER,  

Standing Committees for  

Hicu ScuHoou—Messrs. MeTigue, Clark, Kirkpatrick.

First District—Messrs. Sullivan, Webber, Clark.

Seconp District—Messrs. Gorman, MeTigue, Baush.

Tuirp District—Messrs Foley, Charest, Kirkpatrick.

RuLes—Messrs. Webber, Charles, Foley.
 FINANCE AND AccountTs—Messrs. Sullivan, Webbef,

; Clark. oo

SALARIES—Messrs. Webber, Sullivan, Baush.

Text Books AND CouRsES OF Stupy—Messrs. Clark, eTigue, Baush.

PRINTING AND SUppLies—Messrs. Gorman, MeTigue,
Kirkpatrick.

Mustc—Messrs. Baush, Webber, MeTigue.

Drawing AND Waritinc—Messrs. Sullivan, Charesé,
Baush.

MANUAL TRAINING AND KINDERGARTENS—Messrs. Foley 
McTigue, Kirkpatrick.

HeaLtia AND PrrysicaL CULTURE—Messrs. Clark, Foley»
Gorman.

EVENING Scuoots—Messrs. Sullivan, Charest, Foley.

ATTENDANCE, CENSUS AND TrUANCY—Messrs. Foley, Sul livan, Gorman.

Calendar

| SCHOOL YEAR  .
Winter Term, begins January .
Winter Term,  ends March .
Summer Term,  .. begins April ,
Summer Term, ends June .
Fall Term, begins September .
Fall Term,  ends December .
Winter Term, begins January .

, VACATIONS.

March  to April inelusive.

June  to September inelusive.

December  to January inclusive.

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, Fourth of July, Washineton’s Birth- |
day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day with the
day following, New Year’s Day, Patriot’s Day, and Labor’s
Holiday. |

Regular Meetings of the School Committee—The first
Monday evening in each month at eight o’clock; except in January, when the monthly meeting will be the first Tuesday.

Accounting Committee’s Meetings—Upon notification.

Stormy Day Signals—For omission of forenoon session,
signal at o'clock; for omission of afternoon session, at
  o’clock.

Signal—Two strokes repeated onee after the lapse of a
minute and half.

|

REPORT OF
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

The School Board takes pleasure in offering this its annual report for the year  In school affairs this has been
a vear of much achievement; on all sides we see :nprovements
have sprung up.

ACHIEVEMENTS.

In the office there has been established complete card
record of all the supplies of every description and character
used in any of our schools, and any desired data or informa. tion relative to those supplies can be aequired at moment’s
notice.

Another notable sign of improvement exists in the arrangement that has been established for handling the requisitions from each school and keeping them in such manner
that they are easily available for all parties.

The inereased census of this year, when the number of  children between the ages of five and fifteen years ,
marks healthy sign for our growing city; but the mereased
and more efficient method of handling this truaney question
eould easily take care of even larger numbers, and with the
same precision, for the truant officers in this way make detailed report to specifie questions, which report is then open
to be examined by the principal, superintendent or any member of the committee, the reduction by fifty per eent of the
number of truants in the truaney school being the most telling argument to show the increased efficiency in handling the
truancy question.

|
|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

A department of manual training and domestic science
for the High School pupils and the pupils of the ninth grade
of all the grammar schools of our city has been established,
and its popularity and usefulness is attested by the constantly increasing attendance. To such an extent has the attendance in this department grown that an additional teacher
became necessity.

A physical instructor has been placed in our High School.

The erowning achievement that marks the permanent
improvements of the fiseal school year just ending has been
the grouping together of all the essential school topics into
one compact course of study, adaptable to every school room
throughout the city, and so devised that all our schools will
operate in uniformity. Nothing but an examination of this
work itself (and the School Board will furnish printed copy
to any citizen on request) will convey sufficient idea of the
far-reaching effects of this work and its value in bringing our)
grammar schools up to the complete modern standard.

PHYSICAL CONDITIONS.
The physieal condition also of our schools has been bet tered, and the hygienic drinking fountain is now reality. In
an examination of the various buildings throughout the city,
your committee finds some things still needed, and we would
therefore recommend :

That site for grammar school either in the South
Chestnut Street district or in Oakdale be immediately purchased to accommodate the overflow now existing in the South
Chestnut street district. site in Oakdale would seem more
preferable both on account of the location and the probabilities of future growth, but school in one or the other of these
places is imperatively needed.

The main part of the flat tin roof of the Highland School
is worn away, and your committee would recommend that
quick action be taken to remedy this defect so that great damage will not be done to the interior of the building. The walls,

; REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. ,
too, have lost their color and so fine building should not be
marred by the need of little paint and color. One bell, loud
sounding enough to be audible on all sides of the building,
would be distinct help in the school work of this building.

We again repeat what has now grown to be an old story,
that new school is needed to replace the present excuse for

} one at North Chestnut street. This building, which is the
oldest one in actual school service in our city, has long ago
outlived its usefulness. It is impossible to make it reasonably
sanitary, it is sadly lacking in ventilation and light, it is the
most expensive machine in our city used to educate our
ehildren, and one and only one proper suggestion ean be offered to improve the school work in this vieinity, and that is
that the building itself be razed and modern structure of
twelve or sixteen rooms be erected on the present site.

However, while this present building does stand, fence

in the rear to prevent the school grounds from being used as
a common passageway would be distinet betterment.

The Nonotuek street building, for an old structure, is in

very good condition, some very helpful improvements having

, been made this vear by the Board of Public Works. furnace to replace one of the present worn’ out ones seems to be
its only need at the present time.

Simple automatie ventilators are needed at the Elm street
Duilding, and the increasing desire of children to attend this
building, in addition to the present cramped quarters for the
superintendent and clerks and truant officers, would empha: size the benefits to be derived from having school committee
quarters in distinct building.

The walls of both rooms in the Ewineville school need
scraping and painting before that building will be fairly
adapted to school life.

At the Appleton street sehool the need of increased sanitaries is most emphatic. The present ones are scarcely
enough to accommodate themselves to the conditions on each
floor, yet the children from the rooms of another floor are also

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
eompelled to use them. The expense of obtaining sufficient
sanitaries for this building would be very limited, in view of
the fact that the original building and plumbing seem to have
been done in such manner as to anticipate an addition. The
present walls ean be extended and much of the present plumbing used for the new sanitaries.

The prospect of new school alone causes us to refrain
from expressing at the present time the urgent needs of the
Sargeant street school, which at the present time should be
fitted up as best it ean temporarily, but before it is used as a
school building again, if it is ever used, it will need new floors,
new heating system, new sanitaries, and the roof repaired.

In addition to the relief suggested elsewhere for the
South Chestnut street school, some of the floors in the present
building need repairing, the desks in three of the rooms should
be painted and varnished, fence should be placed around the
school grounds, and an electric gong of sufficient force would
greatly help in the proper conduct of this school. |

- At the Elmwood school the furniture in nine of the rooms
should be varnished, there is need for eurtain fixtures in eight
rooms, and once more attention is called to the laek of sufficient assembly room where the general exercises could be
eonducted and the parents assemble. Some means ought to be
devised to secure such an assembly hall.

In the Springdale school there should be toilet room on
the upper floor, and some way found to properly heat the
teachers’ room and the office. The hollow place near the back
door on the north side should be filled in to prevent the water
from gathering there, and the walls throughout the entire
building should be burnished. ;

At Ingleside leak in the roof requires present attention.

At the West strect school the walls should be retinted and
brightened, and the present poor sanitaries should be either
improved or removed. fence should be placed about the
western part of the grounds of this building.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

At Bridge street the question arises, whether or not it
would be advisable to change all the rooms to the east side of
the building.

| At the Hamilton street school the need of paint for four
rooms and the upper hall is very apparent, and if the walls
were brightened it would greatly add to the school’s attractiveness.

At Park street conditions are overcrowded. permanent wall should be placed on the north side of this building,
which would be distinctive betterment for both schools in
this neighborhood. partition should be plaeed between the
rooms on the west side of the upper floor of this building instead of the present sounding board. Furniture is needed for
the two lower grades, and the blackboards require retouching.

So that the school year of brings to our city many
permanent improvements in the conduct of school affiairs.
While other minor improvements have been made, great im, provements are manifest in the business methods pursued at
the office, both in the handling of requisition and supplies, and
in the increased efficieney of the truancy force. Great improvement also comes from the establishment of the department of
domestic science for all the pupils of the ninth grade of the
grammar schools and all the pupils of the High School.
Physical training has been developed at our High School, and
the most notable of all improvements of the year is in the
eompact course of study for our grammar schools.

TEACHING.

The teaching foree has been enlarged and strengthened,
the most conspicuous change being in the High School, of
Which Mr. Howard Conant has been appointed principal.
The many changes in the teaching corps of our eity will be
found elsewhere in the schoo] department printed reports, and
to anvone investigating these appointments it will be seen that
every teacher who has been appointed during the year to work —

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
in our grammar schools has been duly qualified normal
school graduate, and that every teacher appointed during the
vear to our High School had the equivalence of, or was duly
eraduated from reputable college.

FINANCE. |

While the finances of the schools have grown, this has
been healthy growth caused by the increasing numbers of the
children attending school, by the growth in the number of
school departments, by the growth in the school equipment,
and the growth in the teaching corps, and value has been received for every dollar.

The growth characteristic of Holyoke in other respects
has been fully maintained in her schools during the past year.
This is foreed upon even casual observer of school affairs,
and we are confident that the members of the School Board
will continue in the future as they have in the past to act as
able and honest trustees of school affairs of the city of Holyoke.

Respectfully submitted, |
JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN,
ODILON Z. E. CHAREST,
ABRAHAM DAVIS, .
Committee on Annual Report. }

REPORT OF THE
Super! nd Secretar
uperintendent and tary
To the School Committee of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN: take great pleasure in offering for your
consideration the forty-third annual report of the superintendent of schools. .

The work of the present vear will, am sure, appeal to |
vou as work of fulfillment more than promise, of things
done both for the physical and for the intellectual benefit of
the schools.

COURSE OF STUDIES.

A compact course of study for all the essentials, ranging
} from the first to the ninth grades inelusive, is in present operation in our schools. The effect of such grouping of these
studies ought to be deep, both for the teachers and pupils. To
the teacher it gives clear view of where her duties begin and
end and some suggestions of how these duties ean be lightened.
She is made acquainted with the amount of preparation which
a pupil is expected to have before being intrusted to her, thus
avoiding useless search for abilities that never eould be reasonably expected. Then too, the outlines of the training which

should be received under her care are clearly marked.

To the pupil whose parents change to different quarter
of the eity it gives clear means of adapting himself to the
same class without any loss of energy, as well as pointing out
What are the essential facts in given study, and clearly distinguishing those from what are non-essential.

This course also would enable the school authorities or
any citizen to better locate given weakness in the teaching

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
corps of the city’s system, for by this any faulty work of a
teacher can be clearly discerned. There are many other obvious advantages obtained from the grouping of all the essential work into one distinct system.
MANUAL TRAINING AND DOMESTIC SCIENCE.

The manual training and domestic science departments
have been extended to include all of the ninth grade grammar
school pupils of our city.

Manual training has many reasons to commend it to our
school eurriculum, for it teaches the pupils many valuable
ideas, among them respect for honest labor even if clad in
old clothes and dirt. Again, it enables the hand, eye and
brain to work simultaneously, and often those motor activi- ,
ties awaken new fields of thought and are an essential condition of the best brain development.

Domestic science, including sewing and cookery, is extended to the girls of the ninth grade of our grammar schools
in fitting and proper manner believe, for many girls of
this grade attend school no longer and to them the knowledge

' of how to sew, how to cook, what foods contain the most nourishment, how to get the most out of food, as well as how to
avoid eareless buying and bad cooking, is knowledge to domestie life well nigh invaluable. ;

MEDICAL INSPECTION.

Our commonwealth in its wisdom made it possible to have
medical inspection for the schools supplied by the eity. Our
School Board, while believing strongly in its wisdom, has
been unable to obtain any fitting action for its introduction
up to the present time, but feel confident that when our local
authorities and the other citizens realize the great benefits
that would come to the children through this agency, they will
at once adopt proper measures for the immediate introduction of medical inspection in our'schools.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

What time in life ean health be better safeguarded than
in the period of youth? Is there any time when diseases of
the eyes, ears, nose, throat, teeth, ete., can be better inspected
and more securely remedied than the early vears of the school
children? Is it not one of the highest duties owed to society
and the state to see to it that contagious diseases are restricted,
and that these little bodies be relieved of as many defects as
possible, while there is yet time for such relief, so that the
state will have healthy, intelligent citizens?’ Is it not even
economy for the city to give every reasonable help for making
its citizens of sound body and intelligence at an age when the
remedies are most effective? Is it not better to do this than to

later be compelled to provide for these same people as infirm
citizens ,

The medical inspection, if undertaken in proper scale,
will reveal its own pressing need. From whatever department
or through whatever guidance the medical inspection is
brought about, nothing should delay its advent to our schools.

PLAYGROUNDS.

It seems to me like truism to state that public schools
should have proper playgrounds. Playgrounds should be a
compulsory part of our school hfe. Too much attention eannot be called to this great fact, and yet many of the public
schools of our city, including the High, Appleton, Highland,
West, and the new South Holvoke school, have either no plavyerounds or have inadequate ones, where the children could
romp and exercise themselves during recesses, the holidays

and vacations, where they could have their simple amusements
that would develop their bodies, where they would be removed
from the associations of the ‘‘gang’’ and from the dangers
of crowded streets, where child life could disport itself in all
its healthfulness. Set apart if you will within those playgrounds some little spots of beauty and landscape to eultivate
the aesthetic, but do not negleet the school playgrounds.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

It requires no prophetic vision to declare that the time of
all times for the purchase of such grounds is the present.
While the land values are low, and while the land is still without buildings, and while the increased population will not
make it still more valuable, proper seeing ceonomy would
eall at onee for the purchase of such land for playgrounds. .

CONGESTED CONDITIONS.

The growth in school population in certain districts  very
marked. In the South Holyoke district it seems to have eulminated; here the school authorities are compelled to use
stores, tenements and even an attic, but the congested condition of that district will be shortly relieved by sixteen room
school building, modern in all its appointments. It promises
to be eredit to the district and the city.

The South Chestnut street district  another one where
school accommodations are utterly inadequate. We are at the
present time compelled to use one out-room, one attie room
and room at the Hligh Sehool. If the site which the School
Committee has selected will be used at once, and sehool, for
which there is urgent need, construeted, the. Oakdale and
South Chestnut street districts will be receiving attention
highly needed.

And while realize that much is being done by our city,
IT eannot help ealling the attention of your honorable Board
to the deplorable conditions in the North Chestnut street
school. Here poor ventilation, bad sanitaries, bad light, no
central hallways, and general unhealthy atmosphere, mark
the building as not only unfit for school use, but as constant
menace to the health of evervone in attendance. trust that
another vear will see this building razed and modern strueture on this site.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
SCHOOL DISTRICTS.

I would respectfully recommend the complete revision of
the school district lines. In many quarters the new buildings
and changed conditions render some of the present dividing
lines useless, and not in touch with the reasonable accommodation of many of the pupils of our city.

USE OF SCIIOOL HALL.

In our High School we have splendid auditorium, the
use of which should be increased, and wherever high intellectual purpose is proven, consistent allowance of the use
of that building should foster and encourage that high purpose. |

EVENING SCHOOLS.

The use and benefit of the evening school is evidenced
by the great number in attendance, and considering the present laws of Massachusetts compelling children between the
ages of sixteen and twenty-one who work in manufacturing

- and mercantile establishments to have the power to actually
read and write or to attend an evening school, the necessity
of these schools becomes obvious. The high standard of the
teaching corps of the previous year and the character of work
accomplished has not only been continued but improved.

In our city the evening high school is no longer an experiment. The attendance is large, the interest is keen, and certificate is given each of the pupils showing the actual work accomplished by that pupil in the given study. These studies
consist of chemistry, physies, bookkeeping, typewriting, shorthand, mechanical drawing and the languages, with the understanding always that, where sufficient number of pupils warrant, the course will be increased for any useful high school
work.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
TEACHERS.

The problem of the best way in which to select teachers
is still full of difficulties. On our substitute list we still have
an unusually large number of highly competent normal school
graduates. How to select from this list with fairness to the
teachers involved and proper consideration for the city is a
task of no small magnitude. In my report of last year have
offered three solutions of this question, to which would now
respectfully call attention as means of relieving your committee from this embarrassing question.

The teachers of our city, with few exceptions, are men
and women with high sense of duty, of excellent character,
whose efforts are devoted to real school progress. If any parent will consider the difficulties that the parents themselves
have in studying the children of their own family, he will
realize to some extent the difficulties of the teachers in study| ing classes of an average number of forty children of so many

different families, the difficulties in keeping order and in

teaching them useful information; surely the work of the true

teacher in developing the most valuable product of our country, American citizenship, is full of labor, and not paid in pro portion to the pay of those who are handling very inferior
products.

Much is expected of the genuine teacher, her normal
school training, good personality, knowledge of her
pupils, knowledge of her subject, knowledge of real diseipline, knowledge of methods; and while all of these requirements are reasonably expected from the teacher, on the other
hand the teacher has right to expect adequate compensation.

FINANCES.

School expenses, like all other expenses of life, are growing, but when we consider that our School Board asks for an
Increase of nine thousand dollars for the ensuing year where

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

| Springfield asks for an inerease of twenty thousand dollars,
and other cities ask proportionately high, especially when we
consider the fact that more than seventy per cent of the inerease  for salaries of our enlarged teaching corps, the request of our school department will not appear so excessive.

While believe that every reasonable economy consistent
with progress should be exercised in the expending of our
school funds, believe that the responsibility of expending
school money ought not to be divided between two boards.
For instance, the Board of Pubhe Works has expended which expenditure is In no manner controlled by the
school authorities, and yet it is directly charged to the schools’
finances, with many material improvements still to be made.
Should not this responsibility be vested in one or the other
board without any shifting of responsibilities?

Our per capita tax, when we take into consideration loeal conditions and the quality of work exacted,  not unreasonable and is subject to many causes, among them the fact
that such large number of pupils from the publie and parochial schools, and even private schools, attend our High School.
The eost per eapita in our Hieh School is sixty-five dollars,
where the eost per capita of education in the grammar schools
is less than twenty-six dollars.

The truaney question of the entire city is charged to our
department. Again, the great number of outside rooms, more
expensive than the regular school, continue in present usage.

Do the loeal authorities and taxpayers realize that thev
are compelled to pay for less than sixty per cent of the school
children of the city of Holyoke, more than forty per cent being in attendance at the parochial schools? Thus the citizens are relieved of more than forty per cent of their legal
responsibility.

If we desire fully equipped, modern schools in touch with
progressive methods and ideals, if we desire to encourage the
stability of the positions of good teachers, we must pay propREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
erly for them. The question should be, are we getting value
for the money spent? If we are, there are but few citizens
who will take any exception to the expenses devoted to the
great cause of education.

Respectfully submitted,
JAMES J. O'DONNELL,
Superintendent.

REPORT OF THE
S  
upervisor of Drawing
Mr. James J. O'Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

DEAR Sir: special effort has been made during the
past year to systematize the work in drawing so that the work
shall be as logically and definitely carried on as in any other
branch of study. Certam topics have been assigned to certain grades with the expectation that they will be as thoroughly
taught as would be demanded in other subjects, so that each
year’s work can be based directly upon that of the previous
vear. .

There are some phases of the subject depending upon artistie ability and appreciation where we cannot hope that the
pupil’s work will be of uniform excellence, but in other lines
when it is merely question of intelligent and well directed

observation and thought, there  no adequate reason why good
results should not be expected from every pupil, results that
will at least indicate that the pupil has good understanding
of the principles involved in the drawing. With continued
effort along this line, it is to be hoped that our standard of
work ean be somewhat improved.

The construction side of art education, also, has been em phasized during the past year by the introduction of manual
training into the ninth grade, but the problem in other grades
is more difficult one, because without some special equipment

, we are much hampered in our choice of objects to be constructed. However, we have found that book covers, portfolios, boxes of various kinds, and quite variety of objects can
be suecessfully constructed in the ordinary school room. This
construction work is part of almost every course in manual

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
training. Would it not be wise to allow certain amount of
time to be devoted to this subject? This would be preparation
for the wood work that is taken up later. If this allowance

 eould be made, it would relieve somewhat the pressure upon

the one hour week given to the subject of drawing, and into
which we are trying to crowd some of the constructive work ;

that seems so essential. An allowance of even half an hour a

week would be of great value. .

Art study in the High School is earried on under very

' favorable conditions, and it is souree of much satisfaction

that such good results are obtained there. The art department has had the reputation of doing good work for many

: years, and it is not too much to say now that it was never better than at present. great deal of talent in the way of de, sign has been developed along practical lines, and in several
instarices pupils have been doing professional work while still
connected with the school. Some very successful designs for
stained glass have been made recently that would be revelation to many people concerning the capability of High School |
pupils.

There is one very pleasant feature connected with the
teaching of drawing in the Holyoke schools, and that is the
fact that so large proportion of the pupils so thoroughly
enjoy the work, and am well aware that the attitude of the
teachers and principals has much to do with producing this
pleasant state of affairs. No one is in position to realize

| more fully than myself how little my own efforts will accom plish without theirs, and wish to express my appreciation of
the cordial support have always received from my associate
teachers, as well as for the consideration that has been shown
me by the Superintendent and members of the School Board.
Respectfully yours, .
ISABELLE H. FERRY.

REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of Music
Mr. James J. O'Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.
Dear Sir: The report of the musical department is as
 follows:

Music in the publie schools of the United States has taken
a forward step in almost every city, because the people of the
eountry are giving more study to this science. The leading
eolleges of the country have musical departments, and pupils
entering are allowed credits for their musieal ability, the same
as for the other sciences. This to me is good reason why
more time should be given to this study. In my report of  
I referred to this at some length.

The department has shown decided advancement the
last vear.

The Grammar Schoo] graduation was held the Holyoke
Opera House, and from musical standpoint, gave great pleasure to the parents and scholars.

At the High School there have been some changes to the
betterment of the school singing. We have two choruses,
which allow all pupils to take advantage of the music period.

Let me in closing thank the principals and teachers for
their co-operation, the Superintendent for helpful advice,
and the members of the School Committee for their eonsiderations.

Respectfully submitted,
, HUGH CRAIA,

|
REPORT OF THE
Principal of the High School
Mr. J. J. O'Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

DEAR Sir: herewith submit to you my first report as
principal of the High School. The report covers only that
time that have been connected with the school, beginning
September,  .

On the opening of school, we registered pupils. Of
this number, there were boys and girls. The proportion of boys is large as compared with many city high schools,
and shows that there is great desire on the part of the young
men of Holyoke for the advantages of High School education. There should be one thousand pupils enrolled in this
High School, but it is necessary In many eases that the boys
and girls should go to work when they have reached the High
School age. In other cases, there are many youths who desire
to become wage earners more from choice than necessity. IL
trust that in the future the parents, and all of those interested
in the greater prosperity of our city, will encourage more girls
and boys entering the high school, and completing High
School course. Dr. Butler, president of Columbia University,
In an address at the opening of the De Witt Clinton High
School in New York City, made the statement that the efficiency of boy or girl was increased twenty-two per cent by a
High School course.

Not only should more of our boys and girls enter the
school, but larger proportion of students who enter should
become graduates. Many leave at the end of the first or second year, some through discouragement, others to accept business positions, while others seem to become tired of study. A

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

closer watch on the part of parents of the work of their children and regular hours for home study would be the means
of keeping many students in school longer period of time.
It is practically impossible for student to accomplish the
work outlined in any of the courses unless there is given at
least two and one-half to three hours daily of real study outside the regular school periods. believe that different arrangement in our school hours would materially benefit the
work of the school, and my suggestion would be that the hours
of school be changed so that the session begin at in the
morning, and close at one o’clock, allowing time for the five
class periods of forty-five minutes each with sufficient time
for the passing of classes, opening exercises and recess. I
would then advise an afternoon session from till  ,
all students who are doing satisfactory work to be excused
from attending the afternoon session; but those students who
do not do much studying outside of school be compelled to return in the afternoon for study and special drill. This could
be arranged by having the teachers return two afternoons of
each week, having certain number of teachers at the building
every afternoon. The single and double sessions in the High
School are both objectionable, but this arrangement have
suggested is combination of both, and has given satisfactory
results where it has been thoroughly tried.

The equipment of the school is, in the main, satisfactory
and complete. The laboratories, domestic science rooms,
drawing rooms and manual training rooms are well and liberally furnished with material and apparatus. The room set
aside for school library has never been used for that purpose.
The reference books are now placed in one of the study rooms,
and are not accessible to all students during school hours, and

at any time outside of school hours. believe it is quite as
valuable for person to know how and where to obtain
knowledge as it is to possess that knowledge itself. would
therefore recommend that room be furnished as hbrary
and used for no other purpose, and that it be kept open durREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

, ing the school hours in the morning, and certain hours every

afternoon, that the students may do the necessary reference

| work demanded, specially in English and History, more or less

under the supervision of High School teachers. We have quite

a nucleus for library and small addition from year to year

would soon give us excellent opportunities for thorough reference work.

At the opening of school in the fall, number of changes
were made in the personnel of the faculty. They are as follows: In the English Department, Miss Margaret Delaney
was appointed as an assistant. Miss Delaney is also teacher :
of mathematics. In the Modern Language Department, Miss
Amelia Stapleton was appointed assistant; she also has some
work in English history. Mr. Murtach M.  Moriarty was
appointed at the head of the Mathematic Department, and
Mr. George B. Downing, assistant in the same department.

} Mr. Henry Kennedy was appointed as an assistant in the
Science Department. Soon after the opening of school, Miss
Gunderson, of the Commercial Department, and Mr. Leary,
of the Manual Training Department, resigned to take posi- 
tions elsewhere. The commercial work was re-arranged and in
place of securing teacher for this department, Mr. Joseph
Colter was secured as athletic director and teacher of physieal training. Mr. Colter has been given full charge of the
athletics of the school, and the gymnasium work of the boys.
Mr. William J. O’Brien was appointed in Mr. Leary’s place,
but through illness was obliged to leave,and Mr. Stewart Coward was appointed as substitute; later Mr. Charles F. Johnson was also employed in the Manual Training Department.
The faculty now numbers thirty-one, including Mrs. Isabelle
Ferry, the supervisor of drawing throughout the schools, who
comes three days in the week for High School work.

More time of the teachers has been taken this year than
ever for supervision of study. Previously the hours in which
students had no classes, they were studying in rooms where

recitations were being conducted. This was much to the disad  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

vantage of all concerned. It is now arranged so that certain
rooms during the day are set aside for study purposes only,
and teachers are assigned to supervision in these rooms. No
interruptions from recitations disturb those studying, and the
class room teacher has no work except that of instruction.

A new course of study is being prepared, and with it an
outline of the work required in each subject. It is my opinion
that nineteen hours of work week is too much for the minimum requirements, and that better work could be done by requiring more intensive and less extensive study. Colleges are
demanding so much of the High Schools, particularly the
women’s colleges, that it is In many cases advisable for student planning to both graduate from the school and meet the
college entrance requirements, to spend five years in preparation. Better work can be done in advanced schools where the
time in preparation adequate to properly master subject has
been given rather than by taking the many and varied subjects four years’ course demands. Colleges are asking too
much of the preparatory schools, and it is the almost universal opinion of High School principals that the nature of many

requirements is much beyond the average student’s ability to

satisfactorily meet. From my observation of High School

work, the quality of the work done in this school will compare

favorably with other High Schools. am not asking for any

lowering of standards, but it is my opinion that the amount

 of the work required should not be more than can be done well

by the average student, and then we should insist cn the right
quality being accomplished.

In grading large school, it is difficult to treat each individual student entirely on his or her merits, and to place the
student where he or she may do the best work. At the close
of the first half of the year, written examination was given
in all of the prepared subjects, and as result of this examination, averaged with their class standings, the students were assigned to sections where they could best continue their studies.
If student’s work showed failure for the first half, he was

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
obliged to commence the subject over again so as to understand
the foundations thoroughly. He may, then, have chance to
enter review class in the fall, completing the subject next
January. Formerly many  students have been carried
throughout the year in subjects of which they had little understanding, and were hindrance to good work on the part of
others in the class. Now these same students are placed in
small sections and given more or less individual assistance. If
they so desire, they are given every chance to make up the
work this year, or at least to comprehend certain fundamentals of the subject.

Inasmuch as my report covers but part of the school
year, it will necessarily be brief. desire to thank you and
the school committee for the support and encouragement I
have received since coming to Holyoke. am sure that the
committee is working for the best interest of the High School,
and they desire to do all that is possible to maintain high
standard, and to have the Holyoke High School hold high
rank among the schools of the state.

Very respectfully yours,
HOWARD CONANT,
Prineipal.

REPORT OF THE
P rincipal of the Evening High
, and Grammar School
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

The Evening High and Grammar School has continued
its good work during the past year. Grammar classes in Sixth,
Seventh, Eighth and Ninth grade work have been conducted in

. the Appleton street building, and the majority of the High
School work has been done in the High School building.

The Grammar classes have been well attended, averaging
eighty-five per cent of the total number belonging, which is
very high for this school where the attendance is wholly voluntary. There is noticeable throughout the entire school an
atmosphere of sincere, honest, determined effort, and feeling
that here is provided an opportunity for advancement, and to 
obtain that education of which, through necessity, they have
been previously deprived.

That these evening schools have been great blessing to
working people and have amply justified the comparatively
small expense necessary for their maintenance is shown by the
sentiment throughout the city.

Our Commercial Department this year has been record
breaker, the enrollment in this class alone being  about
equally divided as to sex. The record of this department during the year has been particularly gratifying, and that the
work done therein is of practical value is evidenced by the fact
that recently, in competition with graduates of High School

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
and Business Colleges, pupil of our Evening High School
carried off first honors in the nature of responsible position
as bookkeeper in one of our local paper mills.

The courses offered in the Evening High School this year

were bookkeeping, stenography, typewriting, chemistry, English literature, French (elementary and advanced), mechanieal drawing and class in Civil Service. All the classes have
been well attended, an average of seventy-five per cent having
been maintained, and the same excellent standard of character |
and habits prevails.

I believe term of seventy-five nights should be fixed
upon for this school, for in most of the classes the attendance
warrants, and the pupils are in favor of it, and it would give
teachers chance to more thoroughly review the work.

It would seem that the time has come when all High
School classes should be conducted in the High School building. During the past three years it was deemed best to hold
certain classes in the Appleton street building merely for the
purpose of convenience, but find that the classes which are
now conducted in the High School building are not affected
in attendance by the inconvenient location of the latter.

Respectfully submitted,
P. J. GARVEY.

Finances and Statistics
GENERAL STATISTICS.
Population of Holyoke, September, 
Total valuation of property, .. 
Total number of children of school age  to  ), |
Total number from to years of age,  
Total number of pupils in all schools, year ending
June,  ..  
Number under yearsofage, ...  
Number over years of age, ..  
Number between and yearsofage, ..  
Average membership in all schools, 
Average attendance, rr  
Per cent of attendance, Se 
Total income of school department, 
Total expenditure  
Deficit, Be 
Expended by Board of Public Works (repairs,
fuel, power and light),  
Total expenditure for support of schools, 
Cost per pupil based on average membership, 
Cost per pupil based on average membership,
 Ck ek 
Average for the state, report of  ,. .. 
Tax on one dollar of valuation,  $. 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
RECEIPTS.
Dog taxes,ele) 
Tuition, re  
Sales, re ;
——-—— 
Balance from last year,   :
Appropriation, tee 
$ 
Total expenditures, 
, Deficit, re 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
ESTIMATES. |
| Eysetsos Expenditures  
Day school teachers 
Evening school teachers,  . 
Supervisors,  . 
Superintendent,  . 
Clerks,  . 
Truant officers,  . 
Janitors and help,  . 
Building supphes,  . 
Edueational supplies,  . 
Furniture,  . 
Text books,  . 
County truant school,  
Freight,expressandeartage,  
‘ Laundry,  
Livery,  
Office expense,  
Printing and advertising,  
Rentals,  . 
Transportation,  
| Telephones,  
Special help,  
Census,  
Unclassified,  . 
$ 
CLASSIFIED EXPENDITURES.
SALARIES OF SUPERINTENDENT, CLERKS AND TRUANT OFFICERS.
Superintendent—James J. O’Donnell,  
Clerks—Agnes M. Cadieux, oo. 
Mary J. Callahan, Soe 
Ida A. St. Martin, re  
Total, Feeeg 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Truant Officers—Thomas W. Doyle, 
Edouard Cadieux, Ck  
| Thomas E. Gallagher,  
Thomas Ashe (census),  ...  
John Ryan (census), 
Total, Cee 
| JANITOR’S PAY ROLL. ,
Repuer Qutside Brening ota
B. F. Griffin, High, 
P. J. Hines, High,  
Patrick Hartnett, High, d
Mary Moynahan, High,  
George Hifle, High,  
Highland,  
John Hanley, Appleton st.,  
J. M. Sullivan, Bridge st.,  
James Gilhooley, Elm st.,  
James France, Elmwood,  
F. J. Schirch, Hamilton st., . 
John Ahern, Highland,  
Ingleside,  
T. O’Connor, Nonotuck st.,  
P. F. Lynch, N. Chestnut st.,  
Ewingville, 
Fred P. Brown, Park st.,  
B. J. Downie,S. Chestnut st.,  
C. R. Moreau, Sargeant st.,  
Wm. A. Moore, Springdale,  
J. J. Moriarty, West st.,  
West Holyoke,  
J. Donoghue,  
| 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
BUILDING SUPPLIES.
Brooms,   we 
Counter brushes, oeee  
Cheesecloth, Be  
Disinfectant, Soeee  
Dusters—feather, Soeee  
Floor brushes, Doeee  
Gongs, batteries, etc., Boe 
Inkwells, Boeee  
Mats, Bee ek  
Mops, moppings, etc., SY  A")
Pails, Bee ek  
Pencil sharpeners, . 
Soaps, ete.,  ee 
Sponges, Co  
Unelassified, ...  
$ 
EDUCATIONAL SUPPLIES.
Bookkeeping,  ss) 
Busy work, Ceeee 
| Crayon, Ck  
Domestic seience, toe   
Drawing, Ce  
Enelish, Ck  
Erasers—blackboard, Boe  
Erasers—rubhber, Ce  
Geography, Be  
History, re  
Kindergarten,  ... .).heeCi OL  .
Manual training, . 
Musie, Ce  
Paints, brushes, ete, -. 
Paper, Ceeee 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Pencils,oe   
Pens and penholders,  oe ele lee 
Science, weeee 
Stenography, wee )  
Writing,  ...) )) 
Unclassified, .  
$ 
TEXT BOOKS. a
Bookkeeping, . 
Drawing,   .
English, weeee    
French and German, . .
Geography, Coeee  
History, Seeee  
Kindergarten, .  
Latinand Greek, . 
Library, Bee  
Manual training, Se ek kk  
Mathematies, .  
Musie, rs  )
Science, Seeee 
Stenography, .  ),  
Unclassified, See  
$ 

DNDMOMHHAMOSOHODMOOSOD MAD BWMAHAOONKHA [AR
SSHGSHEBAGCHAARRKSH SRanonoa |o
SHOHHAOMEANSSHHTOSHDeY SGHOHHradco |”
DMNIGQNQNMOarPAHNOEEARGSCHDHDeE SHnSSHSORKSH/E
IWOL MAKWAMBWARAUCHOAAAGOA® SSSSGKAS |S
SOMDHHMNOAHOODHDHAOW Ne Yon )
a es rir rm rm rt 
|
Sid Ss oS Sis  ale Eo
[ar Db we  :
Yen +o OD  Im xs
snosuelAS cd RR  |x
-[ Al sal  om a;
  ar
| &
SQM MDOVM DDODDDDAHD ore
SHH NH DN BHD DHMDH  s
HRH HFLRNRH RNNQANAGR RQ WI!
sou qdolaL BRA ARRAN RRKAARAA sa}  ||
| B
| SER RSE SS Dau DRS |
BWOMONAGHH BDSHDHHOCHMN 
Aipuney is ome aos wD
os —
E
|
| +HHoDS Ot DOD on TOOT NS Dee Ser —
| qaqa MWirMOND DDH Pros  S
t IO OHH DBO mo of
‘|; pue IaMOJ ID  rm rt OO rm re —
‘ ard
| fy fe
| ADMronowonoe nooeso coal
I Te OS INE SONOS DOODGWOS 
| NDIOWDI-OHMMINGSDDDMSONS |
ang MmMENEMERSDDSIH DH EDA in
oO TAN Hl WRwowo ete ||
oO
 fe  ||
jo cal
oe) DONAAHOANANSRMARNRSORN OVW RO |
NM DASNABGHSHDOSONNE-NRD HIS MW |
g  SHHOONDONADSMNNOMNMNAMD OWS S&S it '
yoor LSRMDORMSBAMASHHSSDA HR is
jan qxaL SR AS KAR AR“ MOA  |!
H  |!
a ee
:  mil  SOWSS SSSSoer “LS al
, ND OErADB SCHAR WS SH
Mix ASHONSH owaHvoset co |S)!
TN eINWUINT  mo  NO ND Ar Bell
.  aan)fae) rm
i a
a ke x
 MIDASOHOTSODHAHDOSEHNS TBROWOSe 
O DSARBERDSADSOALCARGOD MMA ErRAVWD vA)
‘ sauddn Ne AOOOSOHDArDArANOD OWOxnAAMNHMA™ 
QO MdaNS HonttnDnSSnasSoessr eS o
 [VuoTwoupA MRA NH OD HR HD |,
  )
NIWMWIANDAHODArODDHoH  ||
Oo Ee rt OD IOS DD OO SHH CD PD cal
suiding SSS SRP REM REARS ES |
suipling oY  aa ;
 i
coco ensooc secoo wmoe  ce
ee   ecseses anaS ss S&S |
ssescoscornssoscenm eo un   +/
diay pue IDIADASDUARMSNS OSORNO HeaAAtrw  |] D
HrSDAnDS KEK DHD-S NN ww oS
; OIUL a},
pA al
a
(Oa MRormHtotot—-DS OmMmonnvnse a!
SRLSHSRVSRALASFGS ZERSLESS S|
MMrDSHGrASH HAGE TSO RNMOMNNMDr-Ss  
. |gesgeerd rtegexs IDIOM OHMHD wD
Sul yoeal, SHARNGARNROBASerHHMArHMDH MOwrD OARS |
ISDN AA DWDODDHOMoF
oO? re Son oe re 
; yaa 
wR
a
 |
 —
we) 
N  o& &.
- ae) aa  n
— os. a
ed oP O'S  ied a
  ae Gee BR :
 as BSHsvosn Ses omy FES hA  |
sa,  -SP SST SSH POP yet sae sO av as |
  SosSst eg saves eeteck gages) |
eS WP See DOOD ayy geMS aco kV SO \
“  assert kts TMP og Bo Aeoal
Sa ES ers oR ES HPS SMOMAnr  |
Hae emamcnsazcsrneea aol |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
December,  
January,   
February,   
March, woeee |
April,   
May,   
| June, woeee  
, July, Coe  
August,  
September, Coe 
October,   
November, woe ele Od,  
Total for year, Cooke 
Total receipts, Coe  
Deficit, See  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP. !
, Cost based on Cost based on
totalexpenses teaching only
High School,  
OTerimary ss garten
Appleton Street, 
Bridge Street,  
Elm Street, 
Elmwood,  
Ewingville,  
Hamilton Street,  
Highland,  
Ingleside,  
Nonotuck Street,  
North Chestnut Street,  
Park Street,  
Sargeant Street,  
South Chestnut Street,  
Springdale,  
West Street,  
West Holyoke,  
Evening Schools:
High,  
Appleton Street, 
Hamilton Street,  
North Chestnut Street,  
Springdale,  
West Street,  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
EXPENDITURES FOR SEVERAL YEARS COMPARED.
  .
| Salaries of day teachers .
and superintendent  
Kindergarten teachers.  . 
Evening elementary
schools’  . 
Evening grammar schools 
Evening high school ..  
Truant officers  . 
Janitors  . 
Clerks oo. wel)  -:  —: 
County truant school.  
Text books  . 
Educational supplies  . 
Printing and advertising  
Furniture toe el  . 
Building supplies Look    
Telephones ...  
Livery re  
Transportation  
' Freight, express and cartage Coke  
Rentals .)  . 
Laundry ..  
Miscellaneous and contingent ow ee)  —-: 
$  

 REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
STATISTICS OF ATTENDANCE.
| B| By  ES
Seisp|/s ae| Be)  Ap
eeles| be] Fe ae Fales|  ool oe  QSBl| eB
Bo/ s| fa} wes} pa| sg a
sé/s /sn| so &! BS es ce
zsia‘|ae|  s
D ol  
al  a
High School  
Appleton Street  
Bridge Street  
Elm Street  
Elmwood  
Ewingville  
Hamilton Street  
' Highland  
Ingleside   
Nonotuck Street |  
North Chestnut Street   
Park Street   
Sargeant Street |  
South Chestnut Street   
Springdale |  
West Street  
West Holyoke  
. ley @
oss
Evening Schools: ogs
Ane
High |}  
Grammar  
Hamilton Street UT   
North Chestnut Street}  ]  
Springdale ]; 
West Street  !'  

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
There are now on the pay roll (December) the following
number of persons:
Superintendent of schools, es |
Clerks, a
Attendance officers, .  
—  
Prineipal of day schools (large buildings),.  
High school teachers (not including principal), |
| Ninth grade teachers, toeee  B
Eighth grade teachers, Soe   B
Seventh grade teachers,  
Sixth grade teachers, .  
Fifth grade teachers, ...  
Fourth grade teachers, . |
Third grade teachers,   
Second grade teachers, .  
First grade teachers, toe  BB
Ungraded school teachers,   .
Kindergarten teachers, rs fo)
Assistants, .  
Supervisors, -. .  
Total number of day school teachers,  
Principals of evenings schools, 
Evening high school teachers, |
Evening grammar school teachers, re 
Evening elementary school teachers,  
| Total number of evening school teachers, 
Janitors, Bee  
Total number of persons on pay roll Decem- .
ber,  Se  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. APPOINTMENTS AND CHANGES—DAY SCHOOL

| TEACHERS.
RESIGNED.
Alice C. Brockway, Grace M. Miner,
James F. Leary, Lily E. Gunderson,
M. Davitt Carroll, Mrs. M. B. Metcalf,
Mary E. Martin, Mrs. Minnie E. Webster,
Kate A. Welch, Anna G. Flaherty, .
Mary E. Keith, Mabel C. Perkins,
Katherine T. Heafey, Margaret M. O’Keefe.
APPOINTED.

Howard Conant, Josephine E. Canavan,
Margaret T. Delaney, George B. Downing,
John H. Kennedy, Margaret F. McCarthy,
Josephine MeDonnell, Mary E. O’Connell,
Anna B. Fitzgerald, Ellen C. Pratt,
Bertha J. Moody, Katherine G. Gilligan,
Helen Geraghty, Lilian W. Murphy, :
Johanna V. Leahy, Elizabeth A. Chapin,
Mary A. Lynn.

| TRANSFERRED. |
Amelia M. Stapleton, Annie L. Stansfield,
Teresa L. Dowd, Mary T. Canavan.
Mary C. Shine,

Graduating Class
HIGH SCHOOL.

Ellen Maria Ahern, Louise Celina Laporte,
Anderson Allyn, Alfred George Lavoie,
John Leonard Bagg, James Joseph Lee,
Lillian Mary Beaudreau, Katherine Frances Levenson,
Harold Snell Birchard, Louis Levine,
Mildred Gertrude Bohmer, Helen Teresa Linnehan,
Lionel Bonvouloir, Carrie Frances Lippmann,
George Henry Bridges, Ruth Winifred Loring,
Eleanor Augusta Brooks, Francis Joseph Lynch, ,
Helene Martha Brunn, Clifford Stanley Lyon,
Ed. Augustus Buckland, Jr., Arthur Dwight Maxfield,
Arthur James Burnham, Eileen Maria McCormick, |
Clara Elizabeth Callahan, Anna Mae McGurgan,
Lillian May Chapman, Gertrude Anna Merrick,
Jennie Eliza Collingwood, Martin Francis Mitchell, |
Eva Cecilia Connors, Helen Cecilia Moriarty,
Edna May Curley, Marion Ruth Newell,
Angie Celia Dickinson, Charles Thomas O’Connor,
Mabel Hattie Dickinson, Lillian Pearl Osgood,
Mary Veronica Donoghue, George James Prew, Jr.,
James Joseph Dowd, Jr., Ella Grace Prouty,
Joseph Francis Duggan, Colin Campbell Rae,
Marie Helene Eckart, Henry Alphonsus Rigali,
Karl Raymond Ely, Mary Frances Riley,
Carolyn Susan Evans, Newton Harold Russell,
Rose Helene Finn, James William Sanderson,
Greta Ives Frink, Gregory John Scanlon,
Lena Kentzel Gates, Thomas King Senior,
Alice Elizabeth Geran, Marion Chase Severance,

* REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Genevieve Marguerite Gibson, Michael Nathaniel Slotnick,
Delia Agatha Gorman, Doris Lapham Smith,

Gladys Howland Gridley, Edith Louise Southwell,
Josie May Griffin, Ola Flavilla Stanley,
Frank William Hafey, Edward Joseph Stapleton,
Harriet Mabel Hendrick, Mabel Gertrude Stone,
Francis Cady Heywood, Elizabeth Louise Sullivan,
Mary Madeline Hoar, Albert Tardy,
Anson Jones Hopkins, Edward James Tierney,
Amy Helen House, Nelson Nortcn Van Brunt,
Neilie May Ironside, Ola De Ette Vining,
Mary Agnes Keating, Mary Catherine Wall,
Edward Kennedy, Clara Leone Walsh,
Peter John Kennedy, Edmund Brown Whitcomb,
Katherine Sylvia Keough, Mabelle Louise Wing.
APPLETON STREET SCHOOL. ,;
Eveline Barrett, William Henry Humes, |
Alice Geraldine Baker, Eva Jessop,
Edna Louise Battersby, Grace Darling Johnson, ,
Lilhan Marie Bheh, Ruth Annie Knapp,

Percival Floyd Bliss, Aenes Salome Kidnay,

Dorothy Murray Brooks, Muriel Kennedy,
Annie Mildred Brooks, Daphne Eudell Kellogg,
Ethel Franees Buchanan, Rollin Dwight Keeney,
Anna May Buckley, Julia Mildred Lacey,
Thomas Russell Burns, Deha Elizabeth Lacey,
William Thomas Burns, Val Stanislas Laliberte,
Vera Marcella Rosemond Ethel Frances Linthurst,
Cahill, Irene Estella Mary McDonald, ,
Marv Cassie, Sidney Wilson Marks,
Aurelia Blanche Estelle Can- Ralph Sylvester Miles,
tin, Agnes Ruby Miles,
Leon Wilham Chalmers, Julia Marie Mongin,
Helen May Chapman, Ellen Elizabeth Muleahy,
David Dunean Crawford, James Joseph Nelson Murphy,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Robert Wilson Clark, Janet MacIntyre McKinnon, ,
Eva Anna Eleanor Cook, Margaret Urghart McCorkinLeah Mary Winefred Coun- dale,
ter, Ruby Harriette Newcomb,
Ernest Raymond Collins,  Edward Vincent O’Brien,
James Wilson Crowe, John Thomas O'Neill,
Lula Barnard Crosby, Charles Renwick Outterson,
William Allen Cunningham, Gustavus Parker,
Lulu Beatrice Curley, Delia Bridget Pauze,
May Gertrude Louise Curran, Edwina Harriet Pope,
' Maggie Thompson Cuth- Philip Woodard Prouty,
bertson, Murray Joseph Quinn,
Morgan Arthur Darby, Robert Henry Russell,
Mary Dorothy Elizabeth Irene Veronica Sanderson,
Dunn, Annie Teresa Shea,
Louis Herbert Eaton, James Cheyne Scott,
Levi Edmund Fay, Charles Wolcott Spafford,
Francis Thomas Feeney, Burdette Richards Sheldon,
Jemima Muir Forbes, John Heaton Smith,
Fred Henry Franz, Blanche Virginia Smith,  —|
Herbert Lineoln Frink, Gertrude Ellen Sturtevant,
Emmett Cornelius French, Emily Amanda Constant St.
 Armand Frechette, John,
Geneva Alma Fredette, Una Henrietta Therrien,
Edale Binns Garside, Edith Eleanor Tierney,
Dolphis Louis Gendron, Myrtle Wata Thompson,
William Joseph Gendron, Raymond Thomas Joseph
Anna Gertrude Griffin,  Tueker,
Arthur Alfred Hart, Lucia Ellen Wall, |
Sidney Arthur Harrington, Elizabeth May Wagner,
Richard Anthony Dennis Edith Katherine Cecelia WalHealy lenstrom,
William James Hickey, Ruth Edna Webb,
Katherine Webster Hamilton, Richard Mather Weiser,
Ethel Janet Houghtaling, Joseph Leonard White,
Frederick William Hunt, Inez Hazel Jeanette White.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
| ELMWOOD SCHOOL.
Carleton Howard Bemis, Alice Newell,
Andrew Harry Birnie, Arthur Clark Neville,
Marion Margaret Bradshaw, Louis Henry Nye,
Ruth Frances Canavan, Clara Louise O’Connor,
Pearl Beatrice Caney, ‘Edwin Christy Paul,
Frank MacFarland Col- May Phetteplace,
lingwood, Mildred Sherwood Rae,
Eva May Elliott, Emma Maude Richter, |
Leona Elliot, Francis Henry Shea,
Frank Russell Feather, Gertrude Margaret Sheldon,
Emma Louise Fredricks, Viola Margaret Stewart,
Matilda Augusta Hanemann, Ida Amelia Stimpson, |
Mary Elizabeth Hogan, ‘Ray Bernard Tatro,
Lillian Frances Keating, Helen Isabel Taylor,
Louise Kuenzel, Frederick Eugene Waite,
Carrie Marie Kjoller, Frank Hartley Wells,
Florence Helen Lackner, Louis John Wassel,
Arthur Edmond Laporte, Everett John Wiesing,
Robert Ely Livermore, Frederick Edward ‘Wilhelm,
Jessie Chase Mackintosh, Ruth Marion Wheeler.
Stephen Francis MeCormick,
HAMILTON STREET SCHOOL.
Bertha Wilhelmina Abelein, Donalda Mongeau,
Elmer James Ashe, James Joseph Moriarty,
Irene Veronica Beaudry, John Joseph Myers,
Yvonne Louise Benard, Mary Myers,
Romeo Windfred Brunelle, Catherine Estella O’ConnelJ;
George Edgar Chapin, Terrence Charles O’Donnell;
Earl William Coderre, Annie Cecelia Payne,
Rose Crump, Henry Charles Perry,
Joseph Marcel Duhaime, Albert Peterson,
Herman Bruno Eckart, Lena Elodie Potvin,
, William Tulloch Fletcher, Lillian Alma Potvin,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Isabella Buchanan Fyfe, Frieda Clara Riemer,
Elizabeth Olga Gander, Frank Blaise Schirch,
Jennie Veronica Gallagher, Annie Mildred Schoenfeld, |
Fritz Giehler, Frieda Schubach, |
Louis Anthony Holl, Minnie Fitcham Simard,
William Keller, Mary Theresa Veronica
Abraham Levenson, Spring,
Mary Levinson, Edith Howard Stratton,
Wilbur Herman Lubold, Anna Augusta Wells,
Frieda Mengel, Victor Wisly.
Fred Thomas Leo Miller,

HIGHLAND SCHOOL.

Ralph John Ahern, Florence Ginevera Kinney,
Gertrude Stuart Alderman, William Gladstone Lawrence,
Carl Murdough Allen, Mildred Blanche Leland,
John Edwards Allen, Edith Marion Little,
Evelyn Estella Allyn, Julia Grace Losty,
Mary Frances Anderson, Maurice Hollowood Lynch,
Norman Daniel Anson, Bernice Eulalie Mahoney,
Hazel Mae Barlow, Andrew Anthony Mangum,
Ernestine Mae Bergman, Elsie May Morton,
Lena Elizabeth Bradley, Roy Edwin McCorkindale,
Ruth Marie Brainard, Mary Jeannette MeCuddy,
Charles Allen Bridges, Raymond Edward Nugent,
Fred William Bridges, James Joseph O’Connor,
George William Bears, Edward O’Shea,
May Genevieve Browne, Harry William Partridge,
Francis Joseph Burke, Mabelle Louise Root, —
Marguerite Irene Carroll, Joseph McCarthy Ryan,
Jessie Harriet Cary, John Adolph Rylander,
Edward Anthony Cavanaugh,Dorothy Julia Senior,
Forester Clark, Alfred Waite Sill,
Jennie Clark, Edith Mae Sheaffer,
Sarah Agnes Crean, Arthur Eugene Sheldon,
William Edward Dalton, Katherine Grace Suliivan,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Harolde Ferris Dean, Earle Pratt Taber,
Eileen Louise Delaney, Annie Justine Taber,
Clarence Roy Dickinson, Harry Louis Towvin,
Clarence Larkin Farr, Ethel Mae Treworgy,
Amy Viola Gould,  Rachel Elizabeth Thorpe,
Florence Rebecca Hainsey, Gertrude Agnes Voss,
Frances Marie Haley, Cora Estella Wallington,
Anna Mae Haley, Dora Blanche Washington,
George Warren Hallett,  Maurice Michael Walsh,
Lois Annette Horne, John Patrick Whalen,
Paul Sampson Howes, Hazel Madeline Wheeler,
Anna Gertrude Kane, Mary Louise Welch,
James Henry Kane, Lewis Clark Wileoxen. |
INGLESIDE SCHOOL.
Robert Ernest Sattler.
NORTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.
Edward Joseph Dowling, Michael Sisitizky,
Timothy -Franeis Kennedy, Clyde Herbert Treworgy,
John Joseph Lenihan, Charles Thomas Wilmot,
Omri Burgess Parsons, Frederick Wilmot.
WEST STREET SCHOOL.
Florence Margaret Barnett, Cecelia McCarthy,
John Oliver Boldway, Florence Marie McGough,
Bridget Agnes Clayton, Joseph MeKinstrie,
Elmer Eckert Cornwell, Margaret Elizabeth Basil
Rose Ellen Anne Dean, MeNerney,
Theresa Margaret Donoghue, Daniel Sidney O’Connell,
William Dooley, Aliee O'Leary,
: Lilhan Frances Egan, Ruth Katherine O’Meara,
Isabelle Mary Fife, Lauria Mary Peltier,
Wilham Fergus Foley, Claire Isabelle Mary Seully,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Gladys Hall, Pearl May Veronica Seully,
| Elena Cecelia Joyce, Gladys Lillian Stevens,
*Grace Johnson, Anna May Sullivan, :
Julia Veronica Kelley, Joseph Strain,
Katherine Kleinberg, Joseph Sebastian Snyder,
James Kirkpatrick, Ubald George St. Jacques,
Doria Agnes Langlois, Edward Joseph Teahan,
Raymond Joseph Lynch, George Henry Edward TemRichard James Herbert Mays, ple.
Edwin Aloysius Moore,
WEST HOLYOKE SCHOOL.
Fred Austin Wright.
*Deceased. ,
EVENING SCHOOL. 
| MECHANICAL DRAWING.
Frederick J. Gleason, John Shannon, \
James Walsh, James Lentz.
BOOKKEEPING. )
John MecR. Henderson. ,
| NINTH GRADE.
Albert Archambault, John Hanretty,
Bertha C. Baker, Thorndike King,
James Barron, Mary H. Lyneh,
Rose A. Boissy, Edward Masterson,
Arthur J. Burgess, Wilham B. MeGarry, |
Fred J. Burgess, Anna M. Mougin,
Mary V. Cadigan, Louise Mougin,
Deha A. Clayton, Nora M. O’Connell,
John P. Coapland, Margaret O’Donnell,
Ernest J. Craven, William H. Partridge,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Frederick I. Craven, Lillian E. Rhodes,

Anna J. Crocker, Ernest T. Simmons,
Elizabeth F. Donoghue, Josephine C. Sweeney,
Helen V. Ducey, Eugenia M. A. St. Germain,
Julia M. Ducey, Thomas E. Stewart,

May F. Fitzgerald, Ellen C. Taft,

John L. Goodwill, William Traquair,

Edward M. Greaney. Alice M. Walsh,

William O. Gleason, Peter F. Woods.

REPORT OF
To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN: We herewith offer to your honorable
Board the report of your Truant Officers for the school year
ending June together with the report of the school
census, taken during the months of September and October.
Messrs. Thomas Ashe and John Ryan were appointed to take
the school census, for it is believed that the truant officers are
hired and paid for attention to the truancy question more
than any other.

The number of children between five and fifteen years of
age found were  gain of two hundred and one over
 .

The following table shows the school census by districts,
September September and May the
gain in each district in each of these years, also the number
attending the public, private and parochial schools; the number at work and the number neither at work nor at school,
ete. ,

SCHOOL CENSUS PER DISTRICT.
District “ne  /Totals
       
Gain over is eae eal .

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
——— 
SCHOOLS Thos’ Thus "| Gain Loss
No. attending Public Schools,  ,
“ St. Jerome’s School,  
“ Precious Blood School, 
“ Sacred Heart School,  .
“ Perpetual Help School,  
“ Rosary Parish School,  :
“ Immaculate Conception School,  
“ Mt. St. Vincent School, 
“ Holy Family Institute, 
i Private Kindergarten, i
“ Other Private Schools,  
‘ at work in mills, shops and stores, etc., 
‘* not at work nor at school,  s):
‘* sick or otherwise effected, 
‘minding house, 
Totals, rr 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

The following table shows the number of children in
each district neither at work nor at school between the ages of
five and fifteen to be two hundred and eight, twenty-five more
than in  One hundred and sixty-nine are under the
school age (seven years), and are not required by law to attend school; twelve over fourteen who are not obliged to attend school on aceount of being over the compulsory age,
leaving but twenty-seven children between the ages of seven

and fourteen years not attending school.

a ie ls 

a qa ms ;,s

Q 'e VN Ser} Ow! os] S

. Ss) On Ln gies oT OU Sn lot on]  

sricts  EE BU ET BT eR ley  |
pismiets gc ge  g

| “| §
oooT I'S

| |

 !  

 

  ow  

  !)   

d )

  

  

  |. 

 

  
a  ee
Total,   S|  

  |:

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

The following table shows the number in the mills, shops
and stores, also the number minding house, September,
 and September,  loss of twenty-seven over  
employed in the mills, shops and stores, and twenty-one less
minding house.

Districts  ;]  

Mills, shops and stores}  

Minding house  Cd: 
Total   
Total  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
ABSENTEES REPORTED.
 isjs/sigeis|s|/sigig
o oO ao aS Ol nl Ss 
SCHOOLS “jeje lyase |e pal tps a! B
: fo)
€ ieielsildj slg lH) el) aia
Sidizlalsjflaeliglsis
Chestnut Street,    
Appleton Street,   
Elm Street,  
South Chestnut St.; ):  
Nonotuck Street, ,  
Park Street,  Hamilton Street,   
Sargeant Street, CUdT|:C ThCUBCSCsCédLDCCSSH ss  
Sacred Heart,  }) 
Precious Blood,  
Springdale, 
South Street,  
St. Jerome,  , 
West Street,  
Rosary,  
Perpetual Help,    
Bridge Street,  ao
. i
, :

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
  Ver) New Yen Ve) Te) To)  Ce)
SBISISISISISISIS/S  @
SCHOOLS rm re  re rm re re rm ei leieieigldle/E/e/eié
ZidizialsSif&lisial|sié
Chestnut street,   
Appleton street,   
Elm street,   
South Chestnut St.}  
Nonotuck street, ol 
Park Street,  
Hami'ton street,  TI 
Sargeant street, FF FF  
Sacred Heart,    
Precious Blood,   
Springdale, 
South street,  
St. Jerome,  
West street,  
Rosary,  
Perpetual Help,  
Bridge street, “| 
|  ms 
x

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
. t
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
Pile iteie|s Siolse

SEISISISISI/SISISl/SIS] a

Schools ednee   nee ane elolit{| ts

 a}  )

a,  fon iy S| H

  S|z i/alSjaels/ajs/ 

Chestnut street,   
Appleton street, ce ce  
Elm street, 
So. Chestnut street, 
Park street, 
Hamilton street,  
Sargeant street,  
Sacred Heart, 
Precious Blood, )  
South street,  
St. Jerome,  OO} 
West street,  
Rosary, 
Perpetual Help, 
Bridge street,  
.   

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
RETURNED FROM THE STREETS.
S Si/SiS/ /E  :

. ror) ror) f)  ro")mn

SCHOOL re re ro re re re re re  

 a.  »

Pe be om ay fad) 

a is  ro] bet So  

,  lzi /alsl/eisl|slsis |

Park street,  

Hamilton street,  

Precious Blood,  

Springdale,  

Sargeant street,  

. Chestnut street,  

South ChestnutSt.|  

West street, 

Rosary,  

Perpetual Help,  

St. Jerome,  /.   

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.

From Chestnut Street school, there were truants and  
truancies.

From Elm Street school, there were truants and truancies. |

From Appleton Street school, there were truants and truancies.

From South Chestnut Street schéol, there were truants and
  truancies. '

From St. Jerome’s school, there were truants and truancies.

From West Street school, there were truants and truancies. |

From Rosary school, there were truants and truancies.

From Perpetual Help school, there were truants and  
truancies.

From Bridge Street school, there were truants and truancies.

From Park Street school, there were truants and truancies. :

From Hamilton Street school, there were truants and  
truancies.  

From Precious Blood school, there were truants and  
truancies.

From Sargeant Street school, there was truant and tru) ancy. .
From South Street school, there was truant and truancy.
From Sacred Heart school, there were truants and tru. ancies.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
|
|

TABLE OF AGGREGATES.
‘ ‘
i Nn |
Dey Bley |o Séyiee Sls sia  !
SE Hes eloS Bib. sS' of]  
Months  SES|ZS  .a\  g
  esice bl a) Ba ée ,
aM OM) Fe  fy |
| ,
| |

September, 

October, 

November,   

December, af  

January,  |

February, 

March,   

April,  

May,  se  

June, s|  

|
acelin ad ies Ts Pam SE Oe TE ce
| |
| rae  
|
i
Digitized by Google

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

The one feature that has developed during the present ,
school year is the greatly reduced number of truants and
truancies. On comparative scale anyone may see this for

' himself. In the report of last year the number of truants
was  and the number of truancies,  This year the
number of truants is and truancies,  showing —
as diminished number of truants, and diminished
number of truancies. We have now only four boys at the
truant school compared with eleven that were there this
time last year.

We have issued to minors between fourteen and sixteen
years of age certificates from December  to December One hundred and forty-one more than were issued
from December  to December We have issued
between three and four hundred certificates to minors between
the ages of sixteen and twenty-one, certifying that they could
read and write simple sentences in the English language.

Thanking you, gentlemen of the School Board, superintendent and teachers for your kind assistance in the dlischarge of our duties, :

Yours respectfully,
| T. W. DOYLE,
| EDOUARD CADIEUX,
THOMAS E. GALLAGHER.

REPORT OF
Sealer of Weights and
| Measures
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: have the honor to present to you my first
annual report as Sealer of Weights and Measures, for the
fiscal year  .

While this is not new department, it is practically the
first year that the Board of Aldermen have made the necessary appropriations to establish and conduct this department
in businesslike and effective way. had the honor of being
appointed Sealer of Weights and Measures under the ordinance passed this year, and began my duties as such February
  suitable place for an office was secured and furnished; thoroughly modern equipment was provided, and I
have given my whole time to the best interest of the public.

The Treasurer and Receiver General of the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts, in his annual report this year, recommends
new legislation for the betterment of this department, and
presents good reasons why every city and town should take
the necessary means to protect the public from unscrupulous
dealers.

It is gratifving to us that the recommendations of His.
Honor, the Treasurer and Receiver General, have been anticipated by the City of Holyoke, and that in thorough equipment of the office the efficiency of the Department of Sealer of

REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.  
Weights and Measures of Holyoke was made possible to compare favorably with any in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
In closing this brief report wish to thank the Deputy
Sealer of Weights and Measures, the manufacturers, the merchants and the city officials for the courtesies have received
from all in the discharge of my duties. detailed report of
the work performed, and inventory of the office equipment is |
herewith presented.
Respectfully submitted,
PHILIAS J. TETRAULT,
Sealer of Weights and Measures. 
No. Articles Tested Found  Adjust- Con. total
  Platform, over Ibs. Platform, under Ibs. Butcher’s seale......... Counter scale...........  Spring balance......... Balance ............... Weights .............. Dry measures.......... Liquid measures........ —
  Yard sticks............ Glass jars.............. Baskets ............... Berry baskets........... seized Loads of coal...........  
Amount received and given to City Treasurer...... 
Amount due the department, Nov. .........  
Total earned by the department............... 

  REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
EQUIPMENT.
» One bullion balance.
One Massachusetts standard balance in good condition.
Two sealer trying balances in good condition.
Nickel plated weights (avoirdupois),  -lb.,  -lb.,  -lb.,  -lb.,  -]b.,  b.
Two sets brass weights,  -lb. to  z., in good condition.
Square east iron weights (avoirdupois),  b., in good
condition.
Brass weights (avoirdupois),  -Ib.,  -lb.,  -lb.,  -lb.,  -lb., in good condition. .
One kilogram in cherry box.
One steel meter in box.
One brass yard standard in box in good condition.
One brass vard measure in good condition.
One set Massachusetts standard iron dry measures.
Two sets wooden dry measures, quart to quart.
One set nickel plated liquid measure, gallon to one gill, 
in good condition.
One set brass liquid measures, gallon to ql.
One mahogany box for liquid measures, in good condition.
One upright drill in fair condition.
One kit of tools in good condition.
 One-water-power emery wheel.
  pounds rod lead.
One reading glass. |
One hand bag.
One counter seale in good condition.
One bushel basket.
One eabinet for card system.
Fourteen rubber stamps.
Fourteen steel dies.
One basket seal in good condition.
One desk.
Five office chairs in good condition.
: One clock.

REPORT OF THE
HouLyoKe, MAss.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and Members of Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: It is with some degree of satisfaction that
we submit herewith our annual report of this department for
the past year, because we have been able to accomplish much
more than in former vears, due to the liberal appropriations
given to this department. Not only have we made considerable progress in the development of our new acquisition but
have extended our operations towards increasing our park
area, and we expect with the opening of the new vear to be able
to report that negotiations have been coneluded for the purchase of larger additions. That the city as whole is not only becoming interested in this department, but enthusiasm  shown
by the deep interest taken by our citizens as well as our city
fathers, and all have agreed that the good work should be inereased, and that more attention should be paid to making the
city more beautiful, and continue to keep pace with the
progress made by other cities in this same line. That the tendeney in all cities is to inerease their park area and to afford
better facilities for the outdoor enjoyment of the younger element such as athletic fields, gymmasiums, swimming pools and
greneral recreation grounds is demonstrated by the large sums
now being expended for such purposes. One has only to look
at the reports from the various cities to see what is being done.
Chicago has appropriated vast sums for new parks and athletic grounds. Brooklyn alone has contracted for 
worth of new shelter buildings for her city, while Cleveland
will spend millions in beautifving her city, and our neighbor,
Springfield, has under consideration project eosting them
over  to make their river front more attractive, and

| REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
to open up recreation grounds for the general public. We
have splendid opportunity to do similar work here if we
can only have the co-operation of our citizens and the help of
, our city government.

Herewith we present our financial statement for the past
year, together with detailed report of all expenditures, as
well as brief resume of work done on each and all of the sev. eral parks.
| ot RECEIPTS.
Balance, December  ..  
Reserve for purchase of land only,  
Appropriation for  to  
Additional appropriation, park polee, re  
Receipts,   ,
—— 
EXPENDITURES.
Hampden Park, took
Prospect Park, re  
Canonchet Park, 
Elmwood Park, toe  
Hamilton Park, tee  
Germania Park, Looe 
Riverside Park, oe 
General expense account, to.  
Prospect Park improvement account, re  
Hampden Park improvement account, soe 
Germania Park improvement account, wee  
Riverside Park improvement account, re |

—  
Oe
$ 

- REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
TRANSFERS. |
Prospect Park Wall fund, ... 
Appropriation, park police, ..  
———  
Balance, reserved for purchase of 
land only, Bee 
MONTHLY EXPENDITURES.
Labor Supplies Total Amts.
January 
February  
March  
April  
May  
June  
July  
August  
/ September  . 
October  November  
December  
$ 
LABOR AND SALARY PAY ROLL BY MONTHS.

- Labor Salary Total Amts.
January  
February
March
April  
May  
June  
July  
August  
September  
October  
November  

$ 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS. ,
ACCOUNTS AND EXPENDITURES OF EACH OF THE
SEVERAL PARKS |
HAMPDEN PARK.
: PAY ROLL. |
. Park keeper, regular,  Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILLS.
Maintenance account,  
$   .
PROSPECT PARK. ;
PAY ROLL. |
Park keeper, regular,  Net Expenditures, 
Matron, sanitary,  
Extra labor,  
BILLS. |
Maintenance account,  
a  
a ELMWOOD PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keeper, regular,  Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILLS.
Maintenance account,  
$  
CANONCHET PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keeper, regular,  Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILLS.
Maintenance account,  
$  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS. |
- HAMILTON PARK.
PAY ROLL. |
Park keeper, regular,  Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor, |
BILLS.
Maintenance account, ,
,  
: GERMANIA PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keeper, regular,  Net Expenditures, 
Extra. labor, ,
BILLS. ,
Maintenance account, }
$  
RIVERSIDE PARK. ;
PAY ROLL.
Park keeper, regular,  Net Expenditures, 
BILLS. :
Maintenance account,  
$  
OFFICE AND MISCELLANEOUS ACCOUNT.
A. P. Capen, salary, Lok 
Salary of secretary, Sook,  
Telephone, ne  
Carfare, re Team hire, wee  
Typewriting, See,  
Inspection of parks, ae §. 
Roller, re  
Mower, ete., Bee  
Sundries, re  
| ——— 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
PROSPECT PARK IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNT.
Fred T. Ley Co., Wall, 
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
Samuel Snell, Pipe,  
G. E. Russell, Seed,  
——— 
GERMANIA PARK IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNT.
Sullivan Carmody Fountain, 
D. O’Connell Sons, Labor,  
M. J. Kearns Co., Labor, material, |
D. J. Landers Co., Labor, material,  
J. L. Mott Iron Works, Cooler, .
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Wilham H. Morehouse, Cartage, 
———— RIVERSIDE PARK IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNT.
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  '
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams, men,  
. P. J. Kennedy, Teams, men,  
Olmsted Brothers, Plans, ete.,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
Louis Lamberton, Ashes,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
E. D. Wells Co., Hardware,  
——— 
Labor,  
$ 

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
TO WHOM AND FOR WHAT MONEY WAS PAID
OUT DURING THE YEAR
: FEBRUARY.
TO WHOM FOR WHAT AMOUNT
Fred T. Ley Co., Inc., Wall, 
Edmond Gauthier, Loam,  
L. Buibeau, Oil,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Sand, labor,  
—-— 
MARCH.
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Telegram Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Transcript Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Alfred Paquette, Repairs,  
—-- 
APRIL. |
C. W. Johnson Co., Insurance,  ;
G. E. Russell Co., Lock,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
A. P. Capen, Services,  
———— 
MAY.
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co. Telephone, 
U. St. Heat. Plumb. Co., Repairs,  
- George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men, .
Crosby Hardware Co., Supplies,  
G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  
Holyoke St. Ry. Co., Fare books,  
Jolly Brothers, Cap,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Holyoke Water Works, Service box,  
R. T. Oakes, Labor, 
William Bialkowski, Teams,  
Sullivan Carmody, Cups,  
| ———. 
JUNE.
E. H. Freiderich, Supplies, 
R. T. Oakes, Light, 
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
D. J. Landers, Sand,  
G. P. Ellison, Cartage,  
G. P. Ellison, Cartage,  
George A. Murphy, Repairs, :
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Hardware,  
John H. Delaney, Asphaltum,  
Sullivan Carmody, Hose, etce.,  
Daniel O’Connell Sons, Teams, labor,  
Daniel O’Connell Sons, Teams, labor,  
Holyoke Broom Works, Brooms,  
' Chase Cooledge, Oil,  |
G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  
W. H. Abbott, Fertilizer,  
Peter Henderson Co., Roller,  
———. 
JULY.
Joseph Bh, Flowers, 
W. L. Bishop, Cartage, oO |
Prentiss Brooks Co.,  
M. J. Bowler, Spindles, 
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  
. Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  
Field Sinclair, Flowers,  
D. M. Allison, Sundries,  .
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone, |
John Napey, Cartage, Wis)
E. F. Dreicorn, Paint,  
Leon Laporte, Cartage,  
Doane Williams, Lumber,  
M. J. Laporte, Hacks,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes, |
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
J. W. Adams, Shrubs,  
—- 
AUGUST.
Fred T. Ley Co., Wall, 
J. Russell Co., Mowers,  
D. J. Hartnett, Services,  
Fitzgerald Co., Frames, ete.,  
Kennedy Tucker, Pipe,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Lewis Lamberton, Ashes,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
G. Russell Co., Supplhes,  
J. Russell Co., Casting,  
E. F.. Dreicorn, Paint, ete.,  
Doane Williams, Stakes,  
George Murphy, Repairs,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Sundries,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Marcotte Piquette, Cans, ete.,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Alfred Payette, Repairs,  
M. J. Kearns, Plumbing,  

, New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
‘G. E. Russell Co., Supplies, —
Nellie G. Curran, Typewriting,  
E. D. Wells, Cups, ete.,  
E. H. Freidrich, Top,  
E. H. Freidrich, Labor,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Plants,  
N. Y. N. H. H. R. R., Freight,  
W. T. Dean, Paint, ete.,  
Rehn Wagner, Signs,  
Sullivan Carmody, Cups, 
Sullivan Carmody, Fountain pipe,  

Samuel Snell, Pipe,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
—— 
SEPTEMBER.

Louis Lamberton, Ashes, 
P. J. Kennedy, Teams, men,  
Harman Derichs, Settees,  
George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men, |
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
John H. Delaney, Turpentine,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Sundries,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
E. D. Wells Co., Sundries,  
Alfred Paquette, Repairs,  
M. J. Kearns, Plumbing,  
D. J. Landers Co., Labor, material,  
William H. Morehouse, Cartage, .
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
J. L. Mott Iron Works, Coolers,  
Novelty Machine Co., Repairs,  
A. F. Gingras, Team, |
——— 
OCTOBER.
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams, men 
Lewis Lamberton, Ashes,  
Michael Cleary, Repairs,  
G. E. Russell, Seed,  
D. M. Allison, Oil, can, Rt)
: W. L. Bishop, Cartage,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Holyoke St. Ry. Co., Fare books,  
Transcript Pub. Co., Printing,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
E. D. Wells, Seed,  
Holyoke Broom Works, Broom,  ,
Holyoke Valve Hyd. Co.,Piping,  
E. F. Dreicorn, Turpentine,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Kennedy Sullivan, Supplies,  
P. J. Kennedy, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  
D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.

Thomas J. Gibson, Repairs,  

Olmsted Brothers, Plans, ete.,  

A. F. Gingras, Team,  

——— 

| NOVEMBER.

Alfred Payette, Repairs, 

Crosby Hardware Store, Hardware,  

E. F. Dreicorn, Paint,  

E. D. Wells, Sundries,  

M. J. Kearns, Waste cocks,  

G. E. Russell, Seed, ete.,  

Watson Ely Co., Lumber,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

Sullivan Tucker, Pipe,  

Holyoke Valve Hy. Co., Pipe,  

John Napey, Cartage,  

Pulverized Manure Co., Sheep manure,  
, P. J. Kennedy, Teams, men, |

' D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men, 
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  )
| sn 

DECEMBER.  |

D. O’Connell Sons, Teams, men, 

D. O’Connell Sons, Teanis, men,  

City of Hol. Water Dept., Ser. boxes, ete.,  

City of Hol. Water Dept., Ser. boxes, ete.,  

Olmsted Brothers, Plans, ete.,  

Hol. Valve Hyd. Co., Caps,  

Holyoke Ice Co., Tee,  

Holyoke Ice Co., Iee,  

Holyoke Ice Co., Tee,  

Holyoke Ice Co., Tee,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Lock,  
E. H. Freidrich, Caps,  d
Lewis Lamberton,  Ashes, —
G. P. Ellison Co., Cartage,  
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams, men,  
G. E. Russell Co., Files,  
D. J. Hartnett, Services,  
—— 
ELMWOOD PARK.

During the past year an extension to the culvert on the
west side has been built under the supervision of the Board
of Public Works, which will enable us to fill and grade, and

we expect to complete the front portion of this park on Maple street during the coming season. On the east side an addition of one hundred feet has been built to the culvert, and
plans are being prepared to complete this front so it will correspond with the west side front. Negotiations are about
completed for the acquiring of all the land lying between
the present park boundary and Northampton street. This will
enable us to now earry out our plans for the development of
this entire tract which we have had prepared for some time.
This will make very valuable addition to this section. .

HAMPDEN PARK.

No important changes have been made here as the park
has about reached its hmits, and nothing more can be done
except to keep it up to high state of condition. new water
cooler and fountain is to be erected this year, and the erection
of sanitary for men and women has been considered by the
Board, but nothing definite has been decided upon.

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
PROSPECT PARK.

It was expected to have had completed this year the remaining portions of the parapet wall and outlooks, but complications arose as to the boundary lines of the city property,
and nothing could be done until .this point was determined.
Negotiations were opened with the railroad company with
this object in view, and we hope to have same settled before
opening of next season’s work and finish up this work.
In the meantime we have put in some new catch basins; have renovated and re-seeded the entire south portion of
the park, and it is intended the coming season to increase the
children’s playground and make further improvements at this

| end.
CANOCHET PARK.

Owing to the limited area of this park, we can only continue to maintain it in its present condition. The placing of
eurbing and concrete walks around the square would add
greatly to the general appearance of same, and we hope to
have this put in the coming season.

HAMILTON AND GERMANIA PARKS.

These two small areas, while pretty spots and well kept
are inadequate for the wants of the citizens of this locality, and
it is to be regretted that they could not be extended. They
are largely patronized and appreciated by the public. New
curbing is needed on Hamilton Park and also on Germania

Park. An electric light is badly needed at Hamilton Park.
During the past season water cooler was established on Germania Park which is much appreciated.

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
RIVERSIDE PARK.
| The acquisition of this tract to the city’s parks has been

a most valuable one, and it is destined to be the most important of all the parks and in time will certainly furnish the
most attraction. Bordering as it does on the river, it offers a
great possibility as an outing place for the people. It is here
that the greatest amount of work has been done. Most all of
the Main street side has been graded and seeded, walks laid —
out, and all ready for planting the trees and shrubs which will
be done early in the spring. The cricket grounds and junior
ball fields have been completed, and the children’s wadding ,
pool is ready for the clay bottom, and we shall have tennis
courts ready early in the spring, as well as the men’s ball field.
It is our wish to continue development work here, and if possible to finish up the river bank next year. There is much work to
do yet, but when all is finished we believe it will meet with the
approval of our citizens.

 IN CONCLUSION.

It is our desire to look ahead as far as possible and provide for the future extension of our park system, which is
bound to come, by acquiring land which may be available for
such purpose, and it would seem good wisdom on the part of
our city fathers to provide the board with sufficient funds for
such purposes. We are desirous of continuing development
work at Riverside Park, as well as at Elmwood Park, and complete our work at Prospect Park, for all of which liberal appropriation should be made. The cost of maintenance for labor of all the parks will be double this year, as according to the
city ordinances we shail be obliged to employ two shifts of men
instead of one. We should therefore require:

. For maintenance, all the parks,  
Completion of Prospect Park, oo.
Development of Elmwood Park,  
Development of Riverside Park,  
For purchase of lands, bond issue,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.

We respectfully submit the foregoing which we trust will
have your approval, and we hope for your generous consideration and support to our requests for the coming year.

CHAS. E. MACKINTOSH,
WM. J. HOWES,
JAMES F. BURNS,
A. D. DUROCHER,
M. O. DREIKORN,
Board of Park Commissioners.
Holyoke, Mass., December .

ANNUAL REPORT OF
To the Honorable the Mayor and Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: present herewith the annual statement
of the receipts and expenditures for the fiscal year  ;
and such other matters pertinent to the financial side of the
city’s business as may prove of interest.

The report is made in the manner and form suggested
by the National Municipal League; likewise along the line
now required by the State of Massachusetts under the law
passed last year compelling uniform system of reporting
the financial results of all cities and towns.

Respectfully submitted,
' D. W. KENNEY, City Auditor.
SCHEDULE A—TI.
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS OF THE FIscaL YEAR.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT.
Cash Balance. Dec. ............ ... 
Receipts during the vear .................  
Expended during the year ...... ........  
Excess of disbursements ................  
Cash balance in treasury at end of the year 
WATER DEPARTMENT.*
Cash Balance, Dec. ....  .
Receipts during the year..... 
Expended during the year ...  
Excess of disbursements......  
Cash balance of Water Department at end of the year..  
Total cash balance of Citv .

Treasury and Water De -partment...... ......... 

*This department, operating under special act of the

Legislature, is carried on independent of the city treasury.

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
SCHEDULE A—II.
GENERAL EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES OF THE :
FIscAL YEAR.
Receipts Expenditures
| |

Ordinary, (Operation and maintenance)...   
(For details see Schedule A-III.)

Extraordinary, (Construction, etc.) ......../ 
(For details see Schedule A-III.) .

Trust Funds,........... ..  c. cc      ees  )
(For details see Schedule A-V.)

Total Actual Cash Transactions of the Year(Omitting duplications) ................   
(Per Schedule A-I.) |

Temporary Accounts, (Duplications) .......;  
(Per Schedule A-VI.) |

Tax abatements, Receipts and Payments duplicated by City, Water and Gas and Elec- 
tric departments..... ............ -]  
Total transactionS............    or

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  

Ordinary has relation only to the current revenues and
‘‘running expenses’’ (operation and maintenance), and does
not include receipts or payments on account of loans, nor on
account of permanent construction or other capital accounts.

Extraordimary has no relation to current revenue or run- .
ming expenses, but does include receipts and payments on
account of loans, and for permanent construction and other :
capital accounts.

Trust funds include all receipts and payments of the city
when acting as trustee or as agent for funds, trusts, special
deposits, ete., which cannot be used except for particular and
specified purposes.

Temporary accounts include, in addition to receipts and
payments which are simply items paid in, temporarily held,
and paid out again, also payments duplicated on the funded
debt, sinking funds and interest accounts, owing to the separate and distinet systems. which prevail between the city, Water
and Gas and Electric Departments.

ACTUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS OF THE OPERATION AND

MAINTENANCE OF THE CITY FOR THE YEAR. |
Ordinary receipts, as above, from taxation and
other sources, not including money borrowed se Ordinary expenditures, as above, for operation

and maintenance (running expenses)  
Excess of ordinary receipts for the year... 

(Exeess of extraordinary expenditures, .)

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
SCHEDULE A—III.
Exuisit oF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR THE YEAR, ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY, GROUPED ACCORDING .
. TO FUNCTIONS. ;
ORDINARY.* —
—olee"$-e IEEE    
Expend, Receipts itures
General Administration. .........  ... ce cence  
Public Safety (Protection Life, Health and Property) 
Public Charity ........   cence  sete ecn  
Public Highways and Sanitation .............. 
Municipal Enterprises..............  eens 
Public Education, Libraries, etc............ .    
Public Recreation.............    sees   
: Public Indebtedness (‘Transactions during year)...... 
Public Interest ........      weno   ene caees 
WAXAtiOn  ... cc            nner neces 
Special ASSESSMENtS .........           
Trust FUNUS...........    ec t enon s  Temporary ACCOUNUS ..........      cence neces Totals, ......... ecc    cce ees sesee . 
Less Duplications, Receipts, Payments, Abatements
ani Transfers ....-)....ee.seete 
[ 
EXTRAORDINARY.*
Receipts Expenditures
General Administration... ............  ...      a
Public Safety (Protection Life, Health and Property) es fe
Public Charity ....  ...           ees es fern
Public Highways and Sanitation.............     
Municipal Enterprises .............. cc   ens wee  cence  
‘Public Education, Libraries etc..............   wee     
Public Recreation ........  ...        Lace aces  
Public Indebtedness (Transactions during year)......  ..............
Public Interest ........            ........  
TAXATION... cc   ce           a
Special ASSESSMENTS...  ...        eer ees  ]   eens
Trust FUN  ...        ene   tees ee
Temporary ACCOUNES......... cc     eenes Sees Coe
Totals, ...... ce       center  tees  
*For details see Schedule A—IV.

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SCHEDULE A—IV.
EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS, APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES,
DIVIDED INTO ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY, ARRANGED
BY DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS AND GROUPED ACCORDING TO THEIR FUNCTIONS AS IN
THE PRECEDING SCHEDULE.
 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
| Receipts. Expenditures.
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Mayor’s Department.........  ). sec  teen   en eens |...........
  Aldermen, Clerk, Messenger
City Messenger’s Department ....|............]... +) ...........
Clerk of Committees............ cele      s ...........
Aldermen’s EXpemSeS........... )sece  sete] es  eens ...........
- City Clerk’s Department.......... $.LO)............) IBZLG E.
Recording Births, Marriages and
Deaths .........   eo    O]....... .---| ...........
  Law Department
City Solicitor....   fee teed   cess } L, )......... 
Legal services, other attorneys ...|............[e seen wee ...  s
Litigation EXPeNsS€B.........  leew     ace ence   ... ..    
  Finance .
Auditing Department ............|.c ce    ]  cence  )...  
ASBESSOTS  ... ...ec sevsccesc|[oscrsstescrsteserc |  
TYr@ASUPeL .....  cc ect   teretelen   .......  
Tax Conllector.  ...  ...     pc     !  oo... cc.
Sinking Fund Officials............)      [    eens TD.OO) ce  
  Elections
Election Expenses, City Clerk....)............[.. ...  .... ..
, Repristrars of Voters ....|........ ] coeewes G. Ql 
“ Polling places, rent, €t.)....  ... cp        oo... 
‘  OfliCerS.  ... ck  leew     cele vee s|  )...........
  Miscellaneous
License CommMis ion ..........   ween eet   cence   ...........
Printing, advertising sundries:............])...... -|  ...........
we art   City Hall .
Rentals .. .........  |  ]............  .......  
Care and Maintenance ...........-)   elecsec c| L,BSO.T  ...   
. REPairs  ... Lecce           seew sees  B,UTT.B  ...  
BOL) Spa  ...........
Lighting ........  ...    el tee cect   le sees sees! ODORS)   cc s
  
a |
Total General Administration .........| )...  ... ... ..

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. )
SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC SAFETY. (PROTECTION OF LIFE, HEALTH AND
PROPERTY. )
Receipts. Ex penditures.
Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary

  Police Department |
Maintenance .............s   tees    cess  ). ...  ...
Fines-Police Court.............. )... aetees seen nees

‘* Hampden County......... TOS .OO!l   len cc  seen  
Sundry others ............... AODDO)  lec  ]  e 
. —
. 

  Fire Department
Salaries  ...  scc  [ecco ceseesse es|  . e
General Expenses...............  [econ cce| BOATS QL] ......... Materials tS Of a
Repairs, Buildings Board ..|............[e- |  ]..... 
Fuel........ ... .{ Of io]   f cecv |  ]............
Light .....-...  ... {) Public..|.c...... fecssc  |)  .cc cce sce.
Water, Buildings... Works ..|............/ece ees    

‘*  Hydrants ... seeee  r s|  ]......  
$ 

  Health Department
Salarie ............  ec  tees weet   
General Expenses...............)  “ap gal Seat:  nee
Inspector Milk and Vinegar .... B. b|........... 
Inspector Provisions Animals Tper  BU eres
Hillside Hospital-care.... li aececsfeccuncrenen.  BB terre
Contagious diseases......... ...  |............  

  Bye .

  Inspectors 
Superintendent of Buildings ...  
Inspector of Plumbing... Ba npblcoee
Sealer of Weights and Measures  |............ sce  eeuee

eae .

  Armory, Sundry Buildings 
AYMOTY ............    ee.

Rifle Range ............ )"
Sundry Buildings: ns ae .
Repairs............) Board ..|. 

: Buel ice of Popp MgB gf 
Light ..............$ Public b.uR|
Water..............] Works ye  
Moving property..  ]...   fees  !

 GS 

Total Public Safety........ ..........]  sonst bevec  cues

ewe

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC CHARITY.
Receipts. Expenditures.
; Extra- Extra- ,
Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Almshouse
Almshouse..............Oo
City Farm................     |............/$ )............
Repairs Board vec  le eccesfecseccses|  )....  
Fuel of ce tect ce eens loses erecesee| BOt )... ...... .
Light Public Works ......|--  |svn es  ....  ... Out Door Relief |
SalarieS  ... ..       ence esc lecs    ). ......... 
General Expenses...............  )............)  .......... 
City Physician..........    lee   eccesecec |  U]...........|   Miscellaneous |
State Aid .............ee.ec   ..... .)  .......  s
Military Aid.................  )............) )...........Soldiers’ Relief..................|. locce cess  )......-. +++
ae |.... 
Total Public Charity ................. /{$ )............! ].......... 
eeee
i
U

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
| SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC HIGHWAYS AND SANITATION.
Receipts. Expenditures.
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Administration
Engineering Department....... B. ]....... )......... 
MapS...cce.scc secs    sc AD.O !....   fec cce secs le s
Board of Public Works-Salarics |........- -[ec |  ]......... ..
Supt. of Streets-Salaries........ |...   lec  cs|  !.....-.  
Office Force-SalarieS....... . [ecce  coceleces| ........  )
General Expenses ......... .. [ewes eccent lece re  
$ -  Highways
Opening, Grading and Widenre StreetSs.c.  vese eccerlec ces | eran
Maintenance .............. ]........... ,
| CTOSSWAIK,...    ene [ere   rene cen   +***- BS
FOreStry ....        eens [etter eet   ns .
  Street Paving, Macadamizing
Streets  . co e [ev  esleccesc see| 
All€Y ..         ), ...........{ L,O B.B /-+-eerer s
  Bridges
Maintenance ..........    feet  [    see ec s
Lighting............ cc cc  ccna [  tee   lanees nes  fee coe
  Street Cleaning ,
Paved Streets .........   pretest retest [ |  ).  ...  
Gravel Streets............     [ ee    eens cease  ....... Snow Removal
Street Railway Tracks .......... |eces cect cere le re s B. BT   
Streets... III DEES)   "a  )DUTITEEEE
  Sidewalks  )/$ 
Curbing and Sidewalks (New
WOTK)... sce  seen[eesees[ see| 
Repairs and Maintenance ......|...... ceseccec s|  )...  cc 
Snow Removal .................. Os  )...   
ae 
  Street Lighting .
Lighting Streets ........  eens [ec ce sete cecclecceccever es |GOS, ]...   cc 
Carried Forward........... )............; 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
( .
SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
Receipts. Expenditures.
; Extra- an Extra, Ordinary ordinary ea ordinary
Brought Forward.......... )............/  ...........  Street Sprinkling  ,
Street Fountains, Water........ : secceclecssecnecses| )..... cc eens
Maintenance .......ci es  ]..........--)  ]|............
Water. .cr ess @eo reres stoesoeresnevevere  oereneove
   Refuse, Collection and Disposal
Collection ASHES ........         levee veces|  ce  ecsees
Collection House Offal.......... TD)  eees|  L,TAT.B    
$.  ‘$  Sewers .
Maintenance ......... s lcsecstloeve  :  ......... CONStructiON .....cesc .  
$  $  Miscellaneous
Miscellaneous .......cc   cca ccle es elecvasecs 
Damages to persons and personAl PPOPELty... cscs   eens lec se  )............
Water Rents.........s seresees LGB. B)     lec  ce t  es
  
Total, Public Highways Sanitation   
. |

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. :
SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
 MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISES.
; Receipts. Expenditures.
| Ordinary Extra- Ordinary Extraordinary ordinary
  Water Works |
|
, COMStFUCTION ......   [  t sees see  cces| cose eeses 
Maintenance .......  (sete cctt eceleve es es DOLATZ.  |... cc cne
Water Rents..........,      BLLT  occ    ne  lett  s
Sundries... .... ce cc   B,D oc    ............
Interest Meters...........ccecues L,TOD LOB)     cel  erence el enns
Interest Bank Deposits.........'  SO ea
Sinking Fund Appropriation ... .........ee  fes |  ............
a D|  ...wees
|  
  Gas Plant |
C  CSU
Coke and Tar  VEBS TBO) s|   ct | s
Sundries. ........     ee od RET 
Extensions ...........c      ene /$ 
Operation and Maintenance .... ‘**'*"rr tte tesft   Pte Sane
Interest eoer  esrowe ec een sve sense   eo enon
Bonds.  les !  )... 
  .
  Electric Light Power Plant
Electric Light and Power...... ).......... re rae
Sundries........... ecc   LOTTO coc cc     weet eer  
EXtensions  ...          slecescec | 
Operation and Maintenance ,,,. '-seesec ceclececsesees| BOGE BH oo. .
INCCTESE.    ec    eens (tet   este ecselesesees! VB, QATIB)      
BOndS....      cc   c cog Peet en ooesereeoe
$  
]
  Holyoke Westfield Railroad
Dividend ............       P  eens s Pree
: Landon  al |. Lona Total Municipal Enterprises ....,.,,  .......... TE SOD TEED
ee dt

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
Receipts. Expenditures.
Ordinary *"T®- Ordinar Extray ordinary ordinary
. eS —— -$ ——
  Schovls .
i
County of Hampden, Dog Tax..  ..........) coccec  et eens
TUICION ..........    teens B.OU  ...    teen    noes
Salaries, Teachers, Day .........  eccs elecce  ++  ............
“ Evening. ....    eclec | ...  
Salaries, Supt., Clerks Oitice |
EXPeCNSeS oo...    ne cence   ees|sc !  ...........Salaries, Janitors and special |
NEIP. occ      evens  sces[eseess  )............
Salaries, Truant Officers and
CEMSUS  ecss scces cecvet seen st  ...  
Text books and supplieS ........     ler    ............
Rentals...  esc cne e ltt  aee, ............
TYAMBPOTtation.........         tee ,  
Care Of Truant .........     lee   en ......... Building Supplies............... cec   les ! )............
SUNCTICS.......     eens  ).......... ...  
Repairs ens Conn    ........ ..
Fuel Board . ees see    )............
Lighting of Bad LOO 
Power Public ....      .......e 
Water Works SUITED]  )............
Ward Two New School  ecco ref  tesey ses   
$ 
e
  Library
Appropriation ........... ...... setae )......... ..
Total Public Education .............  ....  le ae
‘ j
  eeomoeem’r’[“rvr  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
: SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
]  PUBLIC RECREATION.
Receipts. Expenditures.
i Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Parks ,
Lighting. ........  ...      [      foreseen sees! ........ .
Maintenance ........ cc      [t  cfecseces s|  ...........Construction and Improvements |........-...| secec | ceoeesesees| 
General ExpenseS..........cc  fesecseser fes s| )......... 
Materials ............   cces BIGO. O).. ce ewe lec  loccen es
$  
  Baths
Maintenance .........   Lecce   s lenses ev|  ...  ee
Water...       cree   Lecce  sees ls     )............
"$  Celebrations
. \
Memorial Day ...............  [  sees [scene   ]............
.  ad
Total Public Recreation............. }............ 
a

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SCHEDULE A.—IV.—Contiinued.
 PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS. (TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR.)
Receipts. Expenditures.
. Extra.
Ordinary Extra- Ordinary ordiordinary nary
  Receipts from Loans, Exclud- |
ing Temporary Tax Loans .
| |
Highways, Sewer Sidewalk Bonds ..........    ec ee| cescesees, SBE OO Loc      
Fire Department Bonds.........]  ... ..     SP  
School Bonds....................  sees) LT L,OUO.  oc.  ce le 
$  Premium Account
Municipal Bonds.............. .[ seer eens eens ESBOV. oerreer elon ee
  Payment to Sinking Fund-City
Debt |
From Appropriation ............ seccest a[ snesse een |.......
‘“ Water Deportment ...  ...) oc cen      ).......
‘“* Holyoke Westfield Rail- |
TOM  ...     ]   nega! fete   sees  )|.......
“Earnings, Sinking Fund ..| oo.       tence s
“ Water Dept. Appropriation! ....  ...  ...       '....--.
‘Earnings Water Department Sinking Fund... eeresenecaee) seree sree snes ens Ce
  Direct Payment of Matured |
Debt .
From Tax levy direct, City debt. oj)    |  .......
‘Sinking Fund, City debt.'  .............] .......
Gas and Electric Plant Debt..... an 
Total Public Indebtedness. .........-/  ... L 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
,  PUBLIC INTEREST.
| Receipts. Expenditures.
: Extra- ExtraF Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
| .
  Interest, Sundries: |
Interest on Bank deposits ...... e.  oswee  recs lose s
“ from Water Dept.......; ....  ... -| cone      eenees
ss accrued on Bond issues reet | GG.OY coc   levee cence  s
, |
| |
  Interest on Taxes    se  nsee [  eens eens
|
| |
  Payment of Interest on Debt :
| |
a
Upon City Debt..  ...     tice   ...
Temporary Loans... Sn?
“ Gas and Electric Plant |
 |. See wee
“ water bonda Iecren  ) eRe coc
“ Armory Loan (State  Ue)) sess.     )  
a Total Public Interest............ s+   ...
—v

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
 TAXATION.
Le
Receipts. Expenditures.
Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Taxes, Real, Personal; Poll
Taxes  ... .. cc   ecc(  ]   eens Lecce  eens
  Other Years ..............|$ }.......... es eras
Abatements ......... ea{eretecsesctecel |  ...  .
Refund of Excess Taxes ........  ]........  ............
Refund of Poll Taxes, not asBOSSE ...     ce    )..........  ............
’ 
  Other Taxes (except franchise
taxes)
Corporation Tax ................] ]..... .... H. ...  
Bank Tax ........        )..........  ............
  Franchise Taxes ,
Street Railway Tax, City........  ]. ...  ]       cere eens
  sé State ....... FN Miscellaneous 
State Tax.....     ee] coee   [ewe | )............
County Tax......     ] cect   sees feces)  O, T.TT) oo. 
AFMOSY Tax.....c       ]   sees [e  ......... 
)  Liquor Licenses  ]..........| ............
  Other Licenses |
Auctioneers ..........cceccecucce Z.  ... cel   cw we  lec ce ne 
Peddlers ............c   eens  .....  ... )............
EXPreSS........     ences Lc. ce    rene [  ence 
Pool, Billiards Bowling Alleys  ... )   nee luce ec  cues
Exhibitions .............-.....-.  ]. ..... e!    [even  cas
Junk DealerS........ ees ...   rs fn
Second Hand Dealers ........... )
Hack. ... e  .......... ir
Milk and Oleo.............c  LOT .OO)    e)   eens fe cn ec cce 
Intelligence Officers ............ Fa  pa
Pawn Brokers .............c : BOLOO) cw ]      leew  
Itinerant Vendors ...............  SOL  cs ;
.  
Total Taxation ......... +s e+e+++--] ... ...++-  ).. s,

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
| SCHEDULE A—IV.—Continued.
 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
: Receipts. Expenditures.
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Assessments for Sewers  ... cele    le   
  Assessments for Sidewalks  oc.    lec   lence ec neces
Total ... ...   ec  GOjT Z.  ...   lec    ce|e  

.
ee i. .
er
 
@.
. 
err
e

.
——
———
Ye
——ee
SD

 
|
|
 |
Digitized by Google
—

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
SCHEDULE A—V.
. TRUST FUNDS.
a
FUNDS Receipts. Expenditures.
Whiting Street Funds...............  
Cemetery Pads.  
ee ||RO
Total vece eesl  
/ ,
SCHEDULE A—VI.
TEMPORARY ACCOUNTS.
Receipts. Expenditures.
 Temporary Tax Loans...........   Payments from Sinking Fund in- |
\ to Treasury to redeem matured |
BET  (-  
Total ........     ees  
DE ———————————————————————————————

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNT.
EXPENDITURES ITEMIZED.

Storey, Thorndike, Palmer Thayer, legal services, 
T. B. O’Donnell, legal services, 
P. H. Sheehan, legal services, 
T. B. O’Donnell, attorney, claim, (Moynihan), 
P. H. Sheehan, Atty., claim, (Van Tassel),  
William P. Buckley, Atty., claim, (O’Leary),  
O. A. Lamontagne, Atty., claim, (Brunelle),  
O. A. Lamontagne, claim, (Poulin),  
Green Bennett, Attys., claim, (Salvation Army),  
Mary Prentiss, claim, Coeee  
P. J. O’Connor, claim,   
Napoleon Meunier, claim,   
"Leon W. Bliss, claim,   
Michael Coffey, claim,   
Joseph Palmieri, claim,  )
James W. Toole, claim,  )
M. J. Griffin, City Solicitor, litigation expenses, 
Robert O. Morris, litigation expenses,  
Thomas B. Warren, examining titles,  
Sons of Zion, rent, polling places,  
St. Jerome T. A. B. Society, rent, polling places,  
William Smith, rent; polling plaee,  
William Provost, rent, polling places,  
Parfitt Art Decorating Co., rent, polling place,  
. James P. Hobert, rent, polling places,  
Holyoke Boys Club Association, rent, polling plaees,.  
Field Sinelair, rent, polling places,  
R. P. Crafts’ Estate, rent, polling place,  
Abraham Barowsky, rent, polling place,  

George P. B. and Charles E. Alderman, rent, polling
place, See  
Ameriean Brazing Mfg. Co., rent, polling plaee,  
Sparrow MeTigue, use of stoves, polling places,  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Sullivan Carmody, use of stoves and plumbing,
polling places,  ee  
O’Leary Plumbing Co., plumbing, polling places,  
John T. Brady, plumbing, polling places, ..  
Casper Ranger, setting up booths, polling places,  
Gas and Electric Department, gas, polling places,  
William B. Whiting Coal Co., fuel, polling places,  
Janitors, polling places, .  :
Henry M. Meek Pub. Co., nomination papers, ..  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, counting boards,  
K. K. Tolman, ballot boxes for polling places,  
M. J. Moynihan, repairs, ballot boxes and vaults,  
Collins Murray, furniture, polling places, ..  
. A. E. Martell Co., blank books,.  
Hobbs Warren Co., books,  
National Blank Book Co., blank books,  
Eureka Ruling Binding Co., ledgers and blank
books, weeee  
George H. Hill, rubber stamps,  
Morgan, Crossman Co., dating stamps, ...  
H. B. Gaines, dating stamps,  
James Barry, labor for sealer of weights and measures,  ke 
John Bateson, labor for sealer of weights and measures, weee 
Thomas Davies, labor for sealer of weights and measures, eS YM OO)
George M. Shine, labor for sealer of weights and measures, weeee  
Die Biene, advertising,   
La Justice Publishing Co., advertising,  
. Free Press Publishing Co., advertising,  
La Revue, advertising, .  
New England Rundschau, advertising,  
Telegram Publishing Co., advertising,  
Transcript Publishing Co., advertising,  

— REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.

Transcript Publishing Co., printing,  
M. J. Doyle Printing Co., printing,  
H. C. Cady Printing Co., printing,  
Anker Printing Co, ... 
John Ahern, hack hire, ..).  
C. Blais Co., hack hire, .).  
| A. L. Codaire, hack hire,.  ...  
Joseph Dupont, hack hire,  
Dillon Bros., hack hire, . 
Joseph O’Donnell Co., hack hire, 
T. F. Ryan Son, hack hire, .)  

Frank P. Bennett Co., subscription “‘U.  S. Investor,  ... 
Boston News Bureau, subsemption,  
William A. Allyn, traveling expenses,  
Pierre Bonvouloir, traveling expenses,  
L. F. Dowd, traveling expenses, ..  
T. J. Finn, traveling expenses, ...  
: D. W. Kenney, traveling and sundry expenses,  
N. P. Avery, traveling and sundry expenses,.  
P. J. Tetrault, traveling expenses, express, ete,  
R. R. Nickerson, stationery, ete,  
Kee Lox Mfg. Co., carbon paper, ..  
M. J. Judge, stationery,.  
Johnson, Butler Co., stationery, ete,  
Fitzgerald Co., stationery, ete, 
F.S. Webster Co., carbon paper, ..  Highland Mfg. Co., pads,   
Charles R. Crosier, soap,  
Millane Bros., soap, re  d
A. E. Sunter, soap, Bee  
J. H. Caswell, photographs,   
Demers Son, photographs, 
John H. Woods, photographs, .)  
Holyoke Business Institute, typewriting, 
F. G. Morris, stenography, 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
Mary M. Rooney, typewriting,  
Cosette Bonvouloir, typewriting,. 
Frederick Kilian, postage, 
Charles Chase, postmaster, postage,  
Boston Springfield Despatch, express.  ..  
John F. Sheehan, express, ..).  
John F. Sheehan, recording births, marriages and
deaths,  
William T. Walsh, express,  
Holvoke Auto Garage, automobile hire, ...  
R. W. Magna, automobile hire, ..)  
E. C. Clarke Co., premium, Treasurer’s bond,  
J. H. O’Connell, premiums, Treasurer’s and Tax Colleetor’s bonds, . 
John Tilley Co., repairs, furniture,,. ...)  
M. J. Bowler, repairs, seales,  .)  
A. N. Lapointe, constable fees,  
V. J. O’Donnell, deputy sheriffs’ fees, ...  
Hotel Hamilton, dinners’ Legislative Committee, .. 
Holyoke Iee Co., ice,. we  
Holyoke Lead Pipe Co., lead rod, re )
Holvoke St. Railway Co., tickets,  ... eS  
Kaffir Cigar Co., clgars,  ... eestiatstiaYsti‘ié‘z
Library Bureau, guide ecards, .)  
George N. Merrill Co., blue prints,. ..  
New England Towel Supply, Laundry,  
New England Telephone Telegraph Co., telephone
, amdtolls, ... 
, Price Lee Co., directories, .)).)  
Dr. E. D. Warren, expenses in eases of rabies, 
Dr. J. J. Moynahan, quarantine of dogs, rabies cases,  
Connor Bros., pens, eestatsts—(st*CSSY‘ TTD
C. E. Ball Drug Co., postals, alcohol, medicine, ete.,  
Carters’ Ink Co., ink, OU,  
H. W. Carter Co., perolin,  ... ee,  
Vietor Langelier, polish chamois, ..Ssi..  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
W. L. E. Gurley, supplies for sealer of weights and
measures,  
J. C. Lutz Lithograph Co., lithographing,  
Thomas F.. McCabe, tax collector, refunding poll taxes
and typewriting, Ceeee  
! Molden Specialty Co., acid,  
J. Russell Co., sealesand wire,.  G. E. Russell Co., hardware, 
A. Steiger Co., scissors, broom, towels,  
J. R. Smith, matches, ete, .)  
White Paper Box Co., boxes,.  
Western Union Telegraph Co., telegrams,.  
Art Metal Construction Co., document file case and
cabinet, . ws). 
W. F. Phillips, roll top cabinet, 
Remington Typewriter Co., brush, cleaner and typewriter,    
M. J. Laporte, cartage and team hire, 
George H. England, badge,   
F.S. Fuller, expert accounting,  
Pay roll, election officers,   
Harry Crosby, burial agent, burial of veterans,  
Kilpatrick Post, G. A. R. Memorial Day, ete,  
Nelson A. Miles Camp  Spanish War Veterans, refund City Hall rental,  
Refund, peddlers’ license fees, 
$ 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
BIRTHS REPORTED.

C.A. Allan.  ... 

JesseeL. Bliss  

Joseph E. Brindamour woe 

Thomas E. Cavanaugh  

Frank F. Celee Ol,  

Jean H.Celee  ... CY  

H. E. Chaput.  

F.J. Cloutier OO,  

O.J. Comtois   

Gardner Cox  

C.H. Curran.  

Ella M. Davis  

Wilfred G. Derom ..)  

Richard E. Dickson re  

Joseph H. Dixon .)  

J. A. Donner  

D. F. Donoghue Be 

R. G. Eaton re  

Adolph Franz oeee  

George L. Gabler  ... ,

George J. Hebert   |

George D. Henderson ..  

Frank Holyoke Bee  

J. C. Hubbard Cee  

Alice E. Hunt ww    

George E. Hunt ..  

P.E. Hurley .)  

George L. Kinne 

E. J. Mahoney Cee  

S. A. Mahoney woeee  

Joseph A. Marm  d. 

John J. McCabe Ce D. d

M. J. MeIntee re  

E.J. MeNamara  d

Fred A. Mead.  d

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.

R.  S. Morrison Boe 
J. J. O’Connor Bee  
George C. Robert ...  
Harry R. Sackett  
John P. Shine re  
George H. Smith ..).  
Wilfred M. St. George 
G.L. Taylor... a,  d
Willham J. Teahan Cee  
E.H. Tierney .)  
Edward D. Warren wee  
Arthur B. Witherell, .)  
Frank A. Woods ...  
Mrs. William Kelley .)  
Anna Drozdowka ...  
Mrs. R. Wruck Bee  
Josephine Dela Neuville ..  
Mrs. M. Ducey Bee  
Benjamin Tagnant re  d
Hubert T. Dean ..)  
Charles P. Flynn ..)  d
J.Q. Beauchamp .) 
George G. Hitecheoek  d
George C. Gates Ce  d
J.J. Carroll ...  
Waleryka Kazalska er  
Domithile Payette ..  
Lillian West (Superintendent of Nurses)  

——— 
OC a———

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
DEATHS REPORTED. |
C. R. Alger ee, SL 
D. F. Barry Ce  
C. Blais Co. Ce  
A. L. Codaire Co. re  
Joseph Dupont re  
Dillon Brothers  
A. F.Gingras Oh  
J. P. Hebert re  
Wells Lathrop oe   
Joseph A.O’Donnell ...  
John B.Shea  
T. F. Ryan Ck  
W.C. Naughton .).  
A. Gordon Be |
M.T.O’Brien Oe,  
C. N. Fitts re  d
John J. Gleason 
Samson Sweeney re  
James F’. Hafey Bee  
Frank N. Bhgh re  
P. M. Shea Bee  
Joseph Belanger  
Louis J. Steitz re  
T. F. Broughall Bk oO
V. E. Mitchell Ce ris)
R. M. Watts  
" ——— 
Transferred to other departments ..  
Total  ... 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. .
SALARIES.
SALARY ACCOUNT ITEMIZED.

N. P. Avery, Mayor ..). 
, John F. Sheehan, City Clerk  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer  ..  
Daniel W. Kenney, City Auditor  
Thomas F. McCabe, Tax Collector 
William T. Walsh, City Messenger  ..  
Michael J. Griffin, City Soheitor ..  
H. J. Mondor, Sealer of Weight and Measures  
P. J. Tetrault, Sealer of Weights and Measures  
A. Judson Rand, Caretaker of City Hall Clock  
John F. Sheehan, Registrar of Voters 
James J. Dunn, Registrar of Voters 
Thomas Stansfield, Registrar of Voters ..  
Charles U. Roy, Registrar of Voters...  
Casper Ranger, Chairman of License Commission  
Michael J. Bowler, License Commissioner...  
Dwight H. Ives, License Commissioner  
Frederick Kilian, Clerk of License Commission  
Jeremiah Seannell, City Hall Janitor  ...  
Mary M. Rooney, Clerk Auditor ..  
John C. Doran, Clerk of Committees  ..  
Care of Citv Hall, additional .)  
Election Officers  
$ 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
. CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
City DEBT NoT EXEMPTED.

Bonds, years per cent, Municipal, Due June 
“  “* ‘“ Dec.  
“ *“  “s ‘* Sept.  
“ “* (Fire Dep’t) “May  
“ BR (Litigation) July  

Total Unexempted Debt, 
EXEMPTED DEBT.**

Bonds, years per cent. H.and W. R. R. Stock, Due Oct. 
“s HH. andS.H. Falls Bridge, ‘* Sept.  
“e  Sewer,  May  
“  FH and W. R. R. Stock, “July  
“ ‘“ Sewer, Oct.  
“e ‘“ HH. and W. Bridge, June  

: S§chool, June  
“ July  
“ “*  Mech.  
“ ‘* Water, Jan.  
“ July  
“  Bye June  

Exempted Debt, , 
Total debt met by Sinking Fund,  
**Exempted by special Acts of the Legislature.
SINKING FUNDS.
Sinking Fund, Water Bonds,  
“ City Debt,  

Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Stock, par value, .

— 
Net Debt, 

| REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
, SERIAL LOANS, UNEXEMPTED.
Bonds, yrs.  School ($  annually), Due May 
“  ** ‘* Municipal ($  annually), June  
‘ Highways ($  annually), May  
‘“ ‘* Sewers ($  annually), ‘* May  
“  Highways ($  annually), Aug.  
‘“* ‘*  ‘* Highways, Sewers and Sidewalks
($  annually), ‘* Mch.  
“  ** School ($  annually), ‘* Sept.  
‘  ** Municipal ($  annually), Aug.  
‘  Sewer ($  annually),  Aug.  
“ ‘* ‘* School ($  annually), Sept.  
$ 
SERIAL LOANS, EXEMPTED.
Bonds, yrs.  Gas and Electric Light ($ 
annually), Due Dec. 
“  Gas E. Light ($  annually), ‘* Oct.  
“ Gas E. Light ($  annually), Nov.  
“ ** Gas E. Light($  annually), ‘* April  
“  Gas E. Light($  annually), ‘* Sept.  
,  
Grand Total Net Debt,  
, ASSETS.
Water Works,  
All other City Buildings, assessed valuation, —
Land and Parks, real estate only,  
Gas and Electric Light Plants, —————  
| si
Excess of assets over liabilities,  
eo .

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR. 
CASH ACCOUNT. )
  .
Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Disbursements to date, .
Nov.  .—Receipts to date, Balance,   
LOANS—-TEMPORARY.
  .
Dec.  .—To Balance,  Nov. .—Loans Paid to date, .
Nov.  .—Loans to date, Outstanding,  
$  
LOANS—SERIAL BONDS.
 
Aug. Transfer to Highways Per Con. age Aug. Municipal Bonds 
v  Sewer  BY  “Sewer  
“ Fire Dept.  Premium  
“ ‘* Sidewalks  Interest Accrued  
“ Ward Two School  Nov.  School Bonds  
“ Interest Interest Accrued  
“  ‘* General Receipts  
Nov.  Ward Two School  
“ Interest  
$ 
|

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.
TAXES.
THomas F. McCaBeE, Tax Collector, in Account with City of Holyoke.
  .
Dec.  .—Balance Due, Taxes,  Nov. .—Receipts, Taxes, 
“  ve  rt 
“  ss “s  ss 
“  ss Addit’nal Ass’t,‘  ss ‘s 
Dec.  .—Bal. Sidewalk Ass’t,  Sidewalks, 
‘*  .—Sewer Assessment,  ss ‘“ Sewers,  oe Abated Swr.  
Jan.—Sidewalk Assessment,  ‘“ Sidewalk, 
July  .—Sewer ‘“ Sewers, 
Nov. .—Interest Collected to date, ‘Int, Taxes, 
Aug. .—Taxes  w“ “s 
Oct.  .—Street Railway Tax,   
“  
‘ 
‘ ‘“ St. Ry. Tax 
“  Tax Abatements  
. oe Taxes and assessments
outstanding  
$  
SUMMARY UNCOLLECTED TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS.
 Taxes,    Sidewalks, Assessment,  Sewer  Sidewalk ““  Sewers  
Total uncollected, ——--————  
PIERRE BONVOULOIR, City Treasurer, Sidewalk and Sewer Assessments.
  .
Dec.  .—Bal., Sidewalk Ass’t,  §$ Nov. ,—Receipts, Sidewalks, 
“ ‘“ we  
“os  ‘“ “ce  Abated Sewers, 
“ Receipts Sewers, 
“ Sewer  “+ Receipts‘ 
“  Outstanding Assessments,  
$  
SUMMARY UNCOLLECTED SIDEWALK AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS.
Sidewalk Assessment, 
“ 
“  
“ Sewer, 
“ “s 
——— 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR.  
, ANNUAL NET DEBT STATEMENT.
The following table shows the net debt at the close of each
municipal year, beginning with  |
Year Net Debt Increase Decrease |
  . , woe   YE, 
.  oo. heme)  woe ele) - oo. e)hm)))  oe hele) toe eT    woe 
Additions to the Sinking Funds durmg the year were:
For water debt, city debt (exclusive of loan payments), total, To retire serial loans: City
debt, Gas and Electric Plant debt, retiring
  year bonds (matured), grand total payments
to Sinking Funds and retiring of matured bonds, .
There was borrowed during the year  for the following named purposes: Highways Construction, ;
Sewer Construction, New Fire Engine, Sidewalks Construction, Ward Two New School, .
Total payments on entire city debt including Sinking
Funds, total borrowed, excess of payments
over loans, ,
Respectfully submitted,
D. W. KENNEY,
. City Auditor.

  CITY ORDINANCES. 
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six.
: AN ORDINANCE.
To establish the salary of the Chairman of the Board of
Public Works.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows:
SECTION  The salary of the chairman of the board of
publie works is hereby established at the rate of twelve hundred dollars per year, from the first day of January,  .
SECTION  All ordinances or parts of ordinances, ineconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
SEcTION  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage. .
| Approved June .

CITY ORDINANCES.  
City of Holyoke..
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six.
AN ORDINANCE.
Relating to the Sealer of Weights and Measures.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows: |

SecTion  The mayor shall appoint annually, in the |
month of January, sealer of weights and measures, who

. Shall serve for one year from the first day of February of the
year in which he  appointed, or until another shall be
appointed and qualified in his place.

SECTION  The sealer of weights and measures shall
devote his time solely to the duties of such office, and shall
receive in full compensation for his services the suum of one
thousand dollars ($ per year.

SEcTION  He shall account for and pay into the city
treasury at least every three months all fees received by him
by virtue of his office. At each time of such payment into
the city treasury he shall furnish to the city treasurer an
itemized statement of the said fees. The sealer of weights and
measures shall keep book in which he shall enter the fees
so received by him, with the date of the receipt thereof, and .

  CITY ORDINANCES.
the names of the persons from whom he has received said fees.
Said book shall be open to the inspection of the mayor, the
city treasurer, city auditor or committee on finance.

SecTIon  All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

SECTION  This ordinance shall take effect from the first
day of February, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six.

Approved June |

CITY ORDINANCES.  
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six. |
AN ORDINANCE.
Establishing the Salary of the City Marshal.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
. Holyoke, as follows:

SEcTION  The salary of the city marshal is hereby
established at the rate of eighteen hundred dollars per year.

SECTION  All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed. |

SECTION  This ordinance shall take effect from the first
day of January,  .

Approved July  .

  CITY ORDINANCES.
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six.
AN ORDINANCE. —
Amending Chapter Seventeen of the Ordinances of  
Entitled Police.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of |
Holyoke, as follows:

SECTION  The city treasurer shall pay over to the city
marshal, annually, as soon after his appointment and qualification as the city marshal shall request, the sum of two hundred
dollars, the same to be paid on the written request of the city
marshal and the written order of the mayor and charged
to the appropriation for the: police department for the then
current fiscal year. Said money shall be kept by the city
marshal apart from his own funds and as money belonging
to the city, and shall be used by him only for the payment
of such travehng and other necessary expenses as any emergency may call for and which must be met at once and without
the delay incident to the approval and payment of bills as
provided by ordinance.

Whenever any bill or expense shall have been paid out of
said fund, such bill or expense shall be approved and paid by

. the city treasurer in conformity with existing ordinances, the

' CITY ORDINANCES.  
same as if it had not been paid as aforesaid; and the amount |
thereof paid by the city treasurer shall be paid to the city :
marshal and placed by him to the credit of, and shall become
a part of, said fund, to make good the deficiency caused by
said use thereof. The city marshal shall annually, before the
expiration of his term of office, account for and pay over to
the city treasurer said sum of two hundred dollars, the same
to be placed to the credit of the police department.
SECTION  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
SECTION  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage. :
, Approved July .

 CITY ORDINANCES.
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six.
AN ORDINANCE.
In Relation to Hawkers and Peddlers. ]

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows: ,

SECTION  No person shall sell or expose for sale as |
hawker or .peddler in this city any fruits and vegetables,
unless he is duly licensed therefor by the Board of Aldermen,
and shall exhibit his license when requested to do so by any
police officer. SECTION  The board of aldermen may grant licenses to
such hawkers or peddlers upon such conditions as they may
deem expedient, and may revoke the same at their discretion,
and record of the licenses as granted shall be kept by the
City Marshal.

SECTION  All licenses granted shall expire on the first
day of May next after the date thereof, unless sooner revoked,
and no license shall be transferable. For every license so

- granted there shall be paid to the City Clerk the sum of
Fifteen Dollars for the use of the city.

CITY ORDINANCES.  
SECTION  Every person licensed to peddle as aforesaid,
shall be assigned number by the City Marshal, and shall —
have his name and such number painted in letters and figures
not less than two inches high on each side of his wagon or
vehicle. When his license is demanded of: him by any police
officer he shall forthwith exhibit it, and if he neglects or
refuses so to do he shall be subject to the same penalty as if
he had no license. |
SECTION  Whoever shall offend against or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this ordinance, shall for
every offense, forfeit and pay penalty of not more than
Twenty-five Dollars. 
SECTION  All the provisions of this ordinance shall be —
 incorporated into every license which shall be granted under it.
SEecTION  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent with the above are hereby repealed.
Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.
Allowed to go into effect without the signature of the
| mayor.

  CITY ORDINANCES.
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six. 
AN ORDINANCE.
To amend an Ordinance establishing Rates of Rental for the
City Hall,

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holvoke, as follows:

SECTION  Section One, of Chapter Twenty-five, of the
Revised Ordinances,  hereby amended so as to read as follows, Z:—

SECTION  The rates of rental for the main hall im the
City Ilall building are hereby established as follows, viz :—

From seven o’eclock in the evening to thirty minutes after
ten o'clock in the evening, twenty dollars, with three dollars
in addition for the fees of the jJamtor; from seven o’clock in
the evening to twelve o’eclock midnight, twenty-eight dollars,
with four dollars in addition for the fees of the janitor; from
seven o’clock in the evening to two o’clock in the morning,
thirty-five dollars, with five dollars in addition for the fees of
the janitor; from seven o’cloek in the evening until after two
o’elock in the morning or to six o’clock in the morning,
forty-four dollars, with six dollars in addition for the fees of the

CITY ORDINANCES.  
janitor; from seven o’clock in the morning to seven o’clock in
the evening, twenty dollars, with five dollars in addition for
the fees of the janitor; for more than one day at time, fifteen
dollars per day, with five dollars per day in addition for the
fees of the janitor; for less than day, three dollars per
hour, and one dollar per hour in addition for the fees of
the janitor.

SEcTION  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.
Approved December 

  CITY ORDINANCES.
City of Holyoke. |
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six. :
: AN ORDINANCE.
To Amend an Ordinance entitled, ‘An Ordinance in Relation
to the Keeping of Pool, Billiard and Sippio Tables, and .
Bowling Alleys.’’ |
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows:
| SECTION  Section of the ordinance entitled ‘‘ An Ordinance in Relation to the Keeping of Pool, Billiard and Sippio
| Tables, and Bowling Alleys,’’ passed to be ordained July  ,
 is hereby repealed.
SEcTION  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage, .
Approved December .

CITY ORDINANCES.  
City of Holyoke.
——— |

In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six.

AN ORDINANCE.
To Establish the Salary of the Inspector of Milk and Vinegar.
 Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke, as follows:

SECTION  The salary of the Inspector of Milk and Vinegar is hereby established at the rate of Eight Hundred Dollars
per year, beginning with January .

SEcTION  AH ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.

| Allowed to go into effect without the signature of the
mayor. ;

  CITY ORDINANCES.
City of Holyoke.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Six.
AN ORDINANCE ,
Entitled Fire Limits and Construction of Buildings.
Be it Ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,
as follows:
SECTION  For the prevention of fire and the preservation
* of hfe within the City of Holyoke certain fire limits are hereby

established, the boundaries of which are as follows, viz. :

Beginning at the intersection of the center line of Maple
street with the center line of South street; thence easterly along
the center line of South street produced to the Connecticut river ;
thence northerly along the said river to the center line of Linden
street produced; thence southerly along the center line of Linden
street to the center line of Hampden street; thence westerly
along the center line of Hampden street to the center line of
School street; thence southerly alone the center line of School :
street to the center line of Suffolk street; thence easterly along
the center line of Suffolk street to the center line of Walnut
street; thence southerly along the center line of Walnut street to
the center line of Jackson street; thence easterly along the center
line of Jackson street to the center line of Maple street; thence
southerly along the center line of Maple street to the center line
of South street, the place of beginning, and including both sides
of the streets aforesaid that are designated as boundary lines.

CITY ORDINANCES.  

SECTION  Except as is provided in Section  of this chap ter, no structure of any kind or description, or building or addition to any building shall be erected, constructed, set up or placed
within the fire limits, as described in Section  of this chapter,
with walls of other material than brick, stone, iron, concrete, |
Portland cement block, or some other material equally fireproof —
and of equal strength, firmly laid in mortar or cement; and no
roofs other than such as are securely covered with slate, tin,
gravel or like incombustible material shall be so erected, constructed, set up or placed. |

No lumber kept for sale, or for building or other purposes,
or cut wood kept for sale, or for household fire or other purposes,

shall be set up, put or placed within said fire limits in pile or
piles of greater height than ten feet, within one hundred feet of .
building.

SECTION  It is, however, expressly provided that within
said fire limits, except upon the lots of land situated on that
part of Maple street which lies between Prospect and Hampshire streets, except upon the lots of land situated on that part of
High street which lies between Prospect and Hampshire streets,
except upon the lots of land situated on that part of Dwight |
street which hes between Maple and Main streets, except upon
the lots of land situated on that part of Main street which lies
between Race and South streets, and except upon the lots of
land situated on that part of Park street which lies between
Crescent and Canal streets, permission may be granted by the
Board of Aldermen to erect, set up, or place wooden or. frame
building or buildings, upon petition for that purpose first
being made and presented by the owner of the land upou which
it is proposed to erect, set up, or place such wooden or frame.
building or buildings, and after hearing all parties interested

} thereon; provided, however, that such wooden or frame building
or buildings shall not exd in any part thereof the height of
thirty-five feet from the level of the street, and shall not be erected, ,
set up, or placed at less distance from the party lines than five
feet; and provided, also, that before granting such permission a

  CITY ORDINANCES.

notice of the presentation of such petition, and of the time and
place for hearing all parties interested therein, shall be given by
publishing such notice once week for two successive weeks in
a newspaper printed in the City of Holyoke, the last publication
to be at least seven days before the time fixed for said hearing.

And provided, also, that permission may be granted by the

Board of Aldermen to set up, put, or place within said fire limits,
except the portions thereof above excepted in this section, lumber
kept for sale, or for building or other purposes, or cut wood kept
for sale, or for household fire, or other purposes, in pile or piles
of greater height than ten feet, within one hundred feet of any
building, upon the same terms for petition, notice, and hearing
as are prescribed in this section in relation to the erection of
wooden or frame buildings.

  SECTION  Except as herein otherwise set forth piazzas,
fire escapes and outside stairways may be constructed of wood.

When constructed of wood, piazzas and fire escapes shall, in

the first story, have posts or supports not less than  in
section, floor beams not less than  ’’x in section and floor joists
not less than  ’’x im section, the floor joists to be spaced not

 more than  on centers. In all stories other than the first the
posts or supports shall be not less than  ’x ’”. All outside stairways shall have stringers not less than  ’’x in section and not
less than three stringers in each stairway.

 Piazzas, fire escapes and outside stairways overhanging
alleys, rights of way or public places, shall have supports, floor
beams, floor joists and stringers of metal or some other fireproof

material.
The foregoing provisions, however, shall not apply to buildings not greater than two stories in height and containing not
more than two tenements, provided that said piazzas, fire escapes,
or outside stairways, if constructed of wood, of such buildings,
shall not be located within five feet of adjoining property
lines. No piazzas, fire escapes or outside stairways shall be enclosed with wood or other combustible material.

CITY ORDINANCES.  
SECTION  All brick tenement buildings hereafter erected
] or constructed within said fire limits, except as provided in Section of this chapter, shall have external and party walls of not
less dimensions than those shown in the following table:
(TABLE  .)
‘Basement.  
- Story  Stories  
dC”?      ”’  
li    
All brick buildings having the first story designed for business purposes and the upper stories for dwellings, and which shall
hereafter be erected or constructed within said fire limits, except
as provided in Section of this chapter, shall have external and
party walls of not less dimension than those shown in the following table:
(TABLE  .)
Basement. Story Stories  CO”?  ”?   .
:  ”’   ”’ ”’    
Buildings used for business or mercantile purposes in any
story shall have the walls of such story and all walls below of ,

  CITY ORDINANCES.
the thickness required for mercantile buildings as provided in
Table No.  of this Section.

All brick buildings designed for business or manufacturing
and all public buildings which shall hereafter be erected or constructed within said fire limits as provided in Section  of this
chapter, shall have external and party walls of not less dimensions than those shown in the following table: .

| (TABLE  .) |
Basement.  

  Story Stories .
 .”    SO
a    :
 

 
  ”’   ”’  

The height of stories for walls of any thickness as given in
the above table shall not exd the following:

Ist story, feet in the clear.

.  nd story, feet in the clear.
 rd story, feet in the clear.
 th story, feet in the elear.

all stories }
above-——— th story, feet in the clear.

If any story of building exds the foregoing heights, the
walls of such building shall be constructed according to Table  ,
as scheduled for mercantile buildings, provided that no walls
below such story shall be less than inches in thickness.

Section  AH party and external walls of all buildings
hereafter constructed of the materials named in Section of this
chapter, except those abutting street or alley, or rear walls, shall
extend above the roof two feet and shall be coped with stone or
other equally fireproof material; and no wood except for eorCITY ORDINANCES.  
nice blocks and inside lintels for doors, windows and finish shall
 hereafter be set into any wall of building.
Section  In any building hereafter erected, built, set
- up or placed within said fire limits, there shall not be more than
  feet space in each story between the walls, excluding the necessary offsets, measuring horizontally along the line of the wall
facing any street, without iron, oak or southern pine column
supports of sufficient size and number to ensure the safety of the
building, or the intervention of brick wall at least twelve inches
thick which wall shall be built to height at least twenty-four
inches above the flat of the roof of the building of which such wall
forms part. The topof said wall shall becoped withstone or other
equally fireproof material, as provided in Section  and where
there is mansard or pitch roof the said wall shall be built up to
the under side of the roof covering, which roof covering shall be
laid and bedded in mortar upon said wall. Where columns are
used instead of brick walls, as required by this ordinance, they
 shall not be enclosed in partitions which are not entirely constructed of fireproof material. The provisions of this section
shall not, however, apply to factories, workshops, or manufactur- }
ing establishments which in the judgment of the inspector of
buildings require larger dimensions.

SECTION  External or party walls heretofore built, the |
thickness of which at the time of erection was in accordance with

 the building ordinance then in force, may be used if in good eondition in the opinion of the building inspector, provided, however, that the said walls shall not be less in any story than twelve

- Inches in thickness, and provided also that the height of said
walls shall not be increased and that the conditions of stability
and safety from fire shall be complied with.

This section shall apply only to buildings used entirely for
tenement purposes, or to buildings used entirely for tenement
purposes above the first story.

In case it is desired or necessary to increase the height of
existing external or party walls which are less in thickness than
as herein stated, the same shall be done by the addition of lin  CITY ORDINANCES.
ing of brickwork so as to form combined thickness with the old
wall of dimension as stated in Section hereof.

No such lining shall be less than four inches in thickness, and
shall be laid in Portland cement mortar and thoroughly bonded by
headers laid or blocked into the old wall at least four inches every
sixth course in height throughout the length of said wall.

SECTION  The foundation beds of all buildings shall be
solid natural earth or level surface of rock. Where solid natural earth or rock is not obtainable, desirable foundation bed
shall be made of piles, ranging timbers, caissons filled with Portland cement, concrete or any other material used for such work
according to the best practice.

FOOTINGS.

SECTION  All walls, piers, columns and posts overlaying
anything except solid rock shall rest on footing course of concrete, stone, or stepped brickwork properly proportioned to sustain the load to be imposed thereon.

If the footing be of concrete, the concrete shall be not less |
than eight inches thick. If of stone, each stone shall be not less
than two feet by three feet and at least eight inches in thickness
for walls, and not less than ten inches in thickness if under piers,
eolumns or posts.

The footing, whether formed of concrete or stone, shall be at
least twenty inches wider than the bottom width of walls resting
thereon, and at least twelve inches wider on all sides than the bottom width of piers, columns or posts.

, If stepped brickwork is used as footing course. instead of
concrete or stone, it shall be started with double course of brick
laid in bed of mortar spread over the foundation.

The offset of the other courses of brick in footing, if laid in |
single courses, shall each not exd one and one-half inches, and,
if laid in double courses, shall each not exd three inches.

All stepped footings of brickwork shall at their base be at
least sixteen inches widey than the walls resting thereon, and at
least twelve inches wider on all sides than the bottom width of
piers, cohumns or posts thereon.

CITY ORDINANCES.  

SECTION  No side walls of brick building shall be built
in advance of the rear wall, and all walls of brick building meeting at an angle shall be anchored to each other, every ten feet in
their height, by tie anchors made of wrought iron of at least one
and quarter inches in width by three-eighths of an inch in thickness. These anchors shall be securely built into the side or partition walls not less than thirty-six inches; and into the front and
rear walls at least one-half the thickness of the front and rear
walls, except. where the walls forming angles are carried up together and bonded at points of contact.

SecTION  In all walls that are built hollow the same
quantity of stone, brick or concrete shall be used in their construction as if they were built solid, and no hollow wall shall be built
unless the parts of the same are connected by proper ties of
either brick, stone, or metal placed not over twenty-four inches
apart. No hollow wall shall be used unless the bearing part is at
least one brick thick and the bearing portion is increased in
thickness as required to earry the load.

ASHLAR AND STONE WORK.

SEcTION  All face ashlar in walls below the water table
or the superstructure above, in any building, shall be not less than
four inches thick, and shall have bond stone running into said
wall at least twelve inches once in every square yard of surface
wall. )

Where wall is finished with stone cornice, or where any
stone projects beyond the face of the wall, the greatest weight of
material shall be-on the inside of the face of the wall or otherwise
properly secured.

In reckoning the thickness of. walls with ashlar facings, no
allowance shall be made for the stone work unless it is eight inches
or more in thickness, in which case the excess over four inches
shall be reckoned part of the thickness of the wall.

Walls faced with brick shall be bonded every eight courses
with flemish bond, or by cutting the corners of the face brick and
putting in diagonal or blind headers every eight courses, or by
an approved wall tie.

o  CITY ORDINANCES.

SEcTION  No brick pier hereafter constructed shall be of
greater height than eight times its least diameter, and no pier
shall be erected having horizontal dimensions less than twelve
inches by twelve inches.

Every pier hereafter constructed to support any beam,
girder, arch, column or lintel spanning an opening over ten feet
in width in buildings designed for business, manufacturing or
public purposes, and to support columns and posts in all classes
of buildings, shall have metal or stone cap of at least the full
width of the pier and of sufficient thickness to properly distribute
the ioad. :

COLUMNS AND POSTS.

SECTION  Wooden columns or posts where used, shall
not exd in length twenty times their least diameters.

Metal columns, where used, shall not exd in length thirtysix times their diameters. No bearing metal column shall be less
than four inches in diameter, and the shell, if of cast iron, shall
not be less than three quarters of an inch in thickness. Every
eolumn shall rest upon metal cap or plate sufficient to properly distribute the load which it is designed to earry. Columns

 set one above another shall have proper connections, and all bearinex parts of columns and plates shall be true surfaces.
FIRE-PLACES, CIHIMNEYS AND FLUES.

Section  The jambs of every fireplace, range or grate
opening shall be at least eight inches wide, and the backs of such
openings shall be at least eight inches thick; and masonry over
fireplace, grates or other openings shall be supported by iron bars
or masonry arches. All hearths shall be supported by trimmer
arches of masonry or by iron construction.

Hearths and trimmer arches shall be at least eight inches |
longer on either side than the width of such openings and at
least eighteen inches wide in frent of chimney breast. No ehimney shall be corbelled from wall more than eight inches, nor
started nor built upon any wooden floor or wooden beam.

CITY ORDINANCES.  

All chimney flues, ash chutes and ventilation flues or ducts
shall be built of brick or other equally fireproof material. Brick
chimneys, including foundation, shall have walls eight inches
thick, unless flue linings are used, in which ease the walls may be

 four inches outside the lining. In chimneys containing more than
one flue the walls between the flues, except where flue linings are
used, shall not be less than four inches in thickness.
Where chimneys are built outside the walls, the tile shall
start not less than two feet. below the under side of the first floor
joists. At fire-places the tile shall commence not more than two
feet from the throat of chimney. }
When chimneys are built inside without fire-places, they shall
be built plumb from the foundation and the tiles shall start at the
cellar floor. Ventilating flues or ducts may, by special permit of
the inspector, be built with four inch walls if the outside wall be
eight inches thick, in which case they need not be tiled and may
be topped out as chimneys. :
Smoke pipe holes entering chimneys shall have thimbles of
iron or terra cotta, which shall be set in place when the masonry
is being laid and so located that the smoke pipe entering them
shall be at least eight inches from all floors, ceilings and partitions. No tile shall be used for chimneys unless enclosed with
four inches of brickwork. All chimneys shall be topped out at .
least four feet above the highest point of contact with roof. No
nail shall be driven into the masonry of any chimney.
Wooden floor beams, studs and other woodwork must be
framed around the brick of all flues at each and every story and
be not less than one inch distant therefrom.

- All ash-chute pits or receptacles shall be built of ample size
of masonry, arched over on top, and shall have fireproof doors.

The part of this section relating to chimney flues shall not
only apply to buildings hereafter erected within the fire limits as
deseribed in Section  but to all buildings hereafter erected
within the city limits. ‘

  CITY ORDINANCES. '
HOT AIR AND SMOKE PIPES. .

SEcTION  No smoke pipe shall project through any external wall or window, or shall pass through any wooden partition, without ring of some hard, non-combustible material, of
the thickness of the partition, extending at least one inch from the
pipe, or without double metal collar of the thickness of the partition with ventilated air space of not less than one inch around
the pipe. The tops of all heating furnaces set in brick shall be
covered with brick supported by iron bars, or arched over, and so
constructed as to be perfectly tight: said covering to be in addition to, and not less than six inches from, the ordinary covering
of the hot air chamber. .

The tops of all heating furnaces not set in brick shall be at
least eight inches below the nearest wooden beams or ceiling, with
a shield of tin plate made tight and suspended not less than two
inches below such beams or ceiling, and extending six inches beyond the top of the furnace on all sides. All hot air register
boxes hereafter placed in first floor or partitions of buildings shall
be set in iron or equally non-combustible borders not less than two

: inches in width. All register boxes shall be made of tin plate
properly fitted to iron, and all partition pipes shall be properly
covered with asbestos.

RECESSES, OPENINGS AND CHASES.

SECTION  Recesses or openings may be built in an outside bearing wall in any story, provided that every such recess or
opening is properly arched or spanned at each floor by an iron
or other fireproof beam of sufficient strength to carry the superimposed load, and provided also that the dimensions of all walls,
piers, columns or posts abutting such ss or opening shall be
increased as may be ordered by the inspector of buildings.

No chase for water pipes shall be made in any pier; nor in
any wall more than one-third of its thickness. The chases around
said pipe or pipes shall be filled with fireproof filling for the space

. of one foot in height at each floor.

|
|
:
CITY ORDINANCES. ,
MASONRY ARCHES.
SECTION  All masonry arches shall be capable of sustaining the weight and pressure of the superimposed loading, and ,
tie rods shall be used where necessary. |
ELEVATOR WELLS AND LIGHT SHAFTS.
SecTION  All elevator wells and light shafts, unless
built of brick, must be lined with metal or plastered on metallic
lathing, and all woodwork inside of such wells or shafts shall be
lined with tin plate, lock jointed.
MASONRY PIERS, BUTTRESSES, WINDOWS, ETC.
SECTION  Masonry piers between windows, doorways,
and other openings shall be of sufficient strength to carry the
 $uperimposed loads and shall be not less than twelve inches in
width.
| CORNICES. :
SECTION  In all buildings hereafter erected the brick
backing of all cornices shall be of the full thickness of the wall.
SECTION  The brick used in all buildings shall be good,
hard, well burnt brick, of uniform size and thickness. Each
brick shall be laid separately and properly bedded in mortar.
When old brick are used in any wall they shall be thoroughly
cleaned before being used. .
Except when brought directly from the walls of another |
building, no old brick shall be drawn from any point outside the
lot or premises upon which building is being erected, and deposited on said lot or premises or upon any abutting lots or highWays, unless said old brick are thoroughly cleaned beforehand.
SAND.
SECTION  The sand used for mortar on all buildings shall
be clean, sharp grit sand, free from loam or dirt.
: LIME MORTAR.
SECTION  Slaked lime mortar shall be made of one volume of fresh lime paste and not more than five volumes of sand.

  CITY ORDINANCES.

All lime used for mortar shall be thoroughly burnt, of good

quality and properly slaked before it is mixed with sand.
CEMENT MORTAR.

SECTION  Natural or Rosendale cement mortar shall be
made of cement and sand in the proportion of one volume of cement and not more than two volumes of sand. Where Portland

 cement is used the proportions shall be one volume of cement to
not more than three and one-half volumes of sand.

Where cement and lime mortar are mixed the volume of
sand used shall be the same as if the cement and lime mortar were
made separately and then mixed.

SECTION  The thickness of walls construeted of rubble
masonry shall be in all eases not less than six inches greater than
the thickness required for brick walls as specified in section ).

- SecTIoON  All walls of building shall be anchored to
each tier of beams or joists at intervals of not more than six feet
apart (except in mill construction, where each timber shall be
anchored), with good metal anchors not less than one and half
inches wide by one quarter of an inch thick and fastened to the
beams or joists. Where beams in the same line are supported by
girders or partitions, the beams shall be butted together end to
end, properly strapped, or the joists may lap each other at least
twelve inches and be well spiked or bolted together.

Section  All buildings shall have floors of sufficient
strength in all parts to bear safely upon each superficial foot of
surface, in addition to the weight of the materials of which the
floors are composed, at least the following loads, viz.: dwelling
houses, fifty pounds; offices, one hundred pounds; assembly halls,
one hundred and twenty pounds; stores, warehouses, workshops,
or buildings used for manufacturing or commercial purposes, at
least one hundred and twenty-five pounds. Roofs of all buildings shall be proportioned to bear safely forty pounds upon
every superficial foot of their surface in addition to the weight of

CITY ORDINANCES.  
the material composing the same. Every column, post, or other
vertical support shall be of sufficient strength to bear safely the
weight of the material and load of the portion of each and every .
floor depending upon it for support.

Columns, where placed one over the other, shall not bear
upon wooden girder, but directly upon each other, or shall have
iron dowels or pintals between the cap and base plates. Wocden
eolumns supporting wooden girders or beams shali have cap and
base plates of cast iron not less than one inch thick. |

. All beams or joists shall be free from any imperfection
whereby the streneth may be impaired, and shall be of such dimensions and material as the purpose for which the building is

 used may require. No bridging shall exd eight feet from end
of beam or joists or between each row of bridging.

The framed cr spiked joists of heavy woodwork shall be sup ported by stirrup irons of proper size, and such irons shall also
be used at all headers and tail joists, if so ordered by the inspector of buildings.

The ends of all beams and joists in brick walls shall be
beveled so that no level portion of the top shall enter the walls.
All beams and joists shall rest not less than four inches on the
walls or other supports.

Buildings may have floors of the size and spacing shown in
the following table, when, in the opinion of the inspector, the size
is sufficient for the load imposed thereon:

ATTIC FLOORS.

Greatest Length. Least Size. Greatest Distance Least number of
on centers. Rows of Bridging.
  feet.  by inches. One.
  by *S “

  CITY ORDINANCES.
) OTHER FLOORS.
Greatest Length. Least Size. Greatest Distance Least number of
on centers. Rows of Bridging.
  feet.  by inches. One.
  by *S “
 by *S “
  ‘‘  by Two.
.  by “é
  by  ‘
  by “

Spacing of timbers may be made otherwise than as specified
in the foregoing tables upon approval thereof by the building
inspector.

 The foregoing table is based on the use of spruce timber.

At each floor the joists are to be doubled and spiked together under all partitions, and trimmers and headers around |
all openings shall be framed together. Where the span is long
there shall be suitable truss framed in the partition. All door
openings are to be properly trussed, and not less than two by four
inch sills and plates are to be used at all partitions not resting 

: upon girder beams, or where the studding does not pass down on
to the plate of the partition below. All bearing partitions shall
have at least one row of bridging of the full width of the studs,
and the studding shall not be less than two by four inches and
placed not more’ than sixteen inches on centers; provided, however, that in buildings of more than one story, having any story
vreater than ten feet in height, the studding in said story shall
be not less than inches, placed not less than inches on
centers and bridged with two rows of bridging.

SEcTION  In all studded partition walls the plastering
shall extend down to the floor and back of all bases and wainseotting in each story, and smoke and fire stops shall be placed

: between all studding and furring at every floor and between
joists at every floor the full width of studs and the full width of
joists. The stops shall be made of brickwork or plaster or some

CITY ORDINANCES.  
other fireproof material. This shall apply to all dwelling houses
outside, as well as within, the fire limits as preseribed in Section of this chapter.

SECTION  No gas, water or other pipes shall be let into a
beam or joist greater than ten feet in length unless the same
be placed within twenty-four inches of the end of the beam or
joist, nor shall such pipes be let into any beam or joist more
than two inches in depth; and no cutting shall be done on the
bottom of any beam or joist.

All buildings in which gas or steam is used for lighting or
heating shall have the supply pipes leading from the street mains
provided each with stop cock placed in the sidewalk at or near
the curb. 

SEcTION  Electric wiring for lighting or power shall be installed according to the rules and regulations of the National
Board of Fire Underwriters and subject to the requirements and
inspection of the Gas and Electric Department.

: SEcTION  In all buildings used for tenement purposes
the entrance if used for more than five tenements shall have |
doorway and stairway not less than three feet six inches in width
in the clear, and each tenement in building shall have at least
one separate exit to main hallways on each floor.

Where new addition is built to tenement building already

| erected, or where two adjoining tenement buildings are made into
one building, this section shall be complied with in either ease.

If the erection of any section or portion of building is deferred, that portion of it erected shall be considered by the building inspector the same as any building provided for in this

 chapter.

SECTION  No building shall hereafter be erected, built,
set up or placed within said fire limits, except as provided in Section of this chapter, until the plans and specifications thereof,
clearly showing all the details required by this ordinance, shall
have been approved by the inspector of buildings and copy or
duplicate of the said plans and specifications filed in his office;

  CITY ORDINANCES.

nor shall any building be altered or changed in any manner until
a plan and specifications, showing in detail the proposed alterations or changes, shall have been submitted to, and approved in
writing by, the inspector of buildings.

Work upon any building, the plans and specifications for
which have been duly approved by the inspector of buildings,
shall be begun within one year after the date of approval of such
plans and specifications. Failure to begin work within said period
of one year shall render void the approval of said plans and specifications.

SECTION  All walls, arches, buttresses, piers, columns, |
posts, beams and trusses in buildings shall be of sufficient strength
in all their parts to safely carry their respective loads.

The dimensions in each ease shall be ascertained by computation according to standard formulae in which the following
factors of safety shall be the minimum used:

FACTOR OF SAFETY.
For wrought iron or steel,  ,
For cast  ron,  .
For timber, o.
Natural or artificial stone or masonry,  .

A copy of said computation shall be filed by the architect
or owner with the inspector of buildings whenever the said inspector so requests. :

Section  If the inspector of buildings shall, at any time
after the approval by him of the plans and specifications for any
building or of the plans and specifications for the alteration or
changing of, or any addition to, any building, discover in said
plans and specifications or in the work done thereunder any provisions or work contrary to the requirements of this ordinance
and which had previously escaped the said inspector’s attention,
he shall at once give written notice thereof to the architect, owner,
contractor or other person in charge of the work upon said buildire.

CITY ORDINANCES.  

The giving of such notice shall of itself be revocation of
the approval of said plans and specifications and of any work
done thereunder prior to the giving by the inspector of said |
notice, and all work upon said building shall thereupon
cease, until such time as the said plans and specifications and any
of said work done thereunder prior to the giving of said notice
shall be made to comply with all requirements of this ordinance
to the satisfaction of said inspector. |

The approval by the inspector of buildings of the plans and
specifications for any building or structure shall not warrant the
doing thereafter upon said building or structure of any work not
in conformity with the requirements of this ordinance.

The inspector of buildings shall have the right at any time
to enter upon the premises of any building or structure in process
of construction and to make such inspection, examination and
measurements thereof, and to take therefrom such sampies of the
material used in the construction, as to him may seem necessary.

SECTION  No wooden building shall be moved from one
lot to another within said fire limits, nor from without said fire
hmits into the same, nor from place to place on the same lot
within said fire limits, without leense being first obtained therefor from the board of aldermen; provided, however, that said
lieense shall not be granted unless an application theretcr in
writing has been made to the Board of Aldermen by the owner cf
the lot upon whieh it  proposed to move said building, hearing
given to the owners of the lots adjoining said lot, and three days’
notice in writing of the time and place of such hearing
civen to said owners of said adjoining lots.

- No heense as aforesaid shall be granted for the removal of
wooden buildings to any lots of land situated on the portions of
streets named in Section of this chapter.

SECTION  Whenever building for tenement purposes
and containing more than two tenements shall be erected without
the limits prescribed in Section of this chapter, the provisions
of this chapter shall apply thereto as fully as if said building
were erected within said fire limits.

  CITY ORDINANCES.

SECTION  In any case where the inspector of buildings
has found any building or structure within the city to be unsafe
or dangerous to life or limb, and public safety and due order of
the mayor and aldermen require the inspector to shore up, take :
down, or otherwise secure the said building or structure, the inspector may make requisition upon the board of public works for
such assistance as may be required by him in the premises.

It shall be the duty of the board of public works to immediately detail to the inspector all such assistance as may in his
opinion be necessary, the expense thereof to be payable, upon approval by the inspector of buildings, from the appropriation for

; contingent, and the amount of such expense to be assessed to the
owner of said building.

Section  All reports made to the inspector of buildings
of dangerous buildings must be made in writing, with the signature and address of the complainant. ,

SECTION  It shall be the duty of the inspector of buildings
to see that the provisions of this chapter are at all times fully
complied with, and said inspector shall prod to prosecute the
owner or owners, architect and contractor, of any building, in
the erecting of which any violation of the provisions of this chapter may have occurred.

Any or all such owners, architects or contractors who shall
be found guilty of any violation of the provisions of this ordinance
shall be fined therefor not less than fifty dollars and not more
than one hundred dollars, and shall be allowed for the changing
of any portion of the building upon which such violation occurred
such time as the court which imposed any such fine may, upon
the recommendation of the inspector of buildings, determine. In
ease the portion of the building in which any violation occurred
shall not be duly changed in conformity with this ordinance
within the time allowed by the court, new complaint for such
violation shall be at onee brought by the inspector of buildings.

The inspector of buildings shall have authority to institute
any prodings either at law or in equity for the purpose of enCITY ORDINANCES.  
forcing the provisions of this ordinance, preventing any violation
thereof, or preventing the maintaining of any structure erected
in violation thereof.

SEecTION  It shall be the duty of the police department
to make report in writing to the inspector of buildings of the beginning of any work upon new buildings or additions to buildings within the city.

SEcTION  The city engineer shall be the imspector of
buildings, and shall have authority to designate such of the assistants in his office as he may require for the purpose of enforeing the provisions of this ordinance.

SEcTION  This ordinance shall take effect on its passage.

Approved October |

JURY LIST FOR  .
A

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Abromet John C. Pleasant street Superintendent
Alger Floyd C. Dwight street Undertaker
Allyn William A. Chestnut street Farmer
Allyn Fred A. Pleasant street Peddler
Alderman Eugene R. Pearl street Clerk
Allen Charles L. Beacon avenue Superintendent
Allyn George H. River Terrace Real Estate Agent
Allyn Orin D. Locust street Real Estate Dealer
Andrews Charles A. Elm street Insurance Agent
Arthur B. Frank Pine street Real Estate Dealer
Archambault Eli Canal street Clerk
Attinger George J. Main street Cigar Manufacturer
Ainly Walker  Canal street Overseer
Archambault Joseph Crescent street Stonecutter
Aubry Samuel J. Ol Park street Patternmaker
Auld James Bowers street  Papermaker
Angers William G. Main street Engineer
Avard Antoine East street Loom Fixer
Ailey Herbert E. Chestnut street Bookkeeper
Allen Henry Ehn street Machinist

| B

Bresnahan William F’. Pine street Sheet Metal Worker
Bunnell William D. Maple street Printer
Bardwell Fred L. Maple street Bookkeeper
Byrnes John J. Elm street Merchant

|
, |
, JURY LIST.  
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Bhgh Frank N. Bh street Painter
Brennan Patrick H. Dwight street Merchant
Burns William T. Walnut street Merchant
Boyer George J. Front street Clerk
Borthwick Walter H. Oak street Engineer
Bail Napoleon Front street Shoemaker
Brannigan Thomas J. Oak street Machine Tender
Brown John W.  High street Paper Dealer
Benoit Arthur Dwight street Butcher
Brassil Michael P. Lyman street Laborer
Ballard Willis D. Pearl street Asst. Superintendent
Bell John H. Cottage avenue Rent Collector
Buek Frank L. Pearl street Painter
Baum Samuel Beach street Jeweler
Beebe Frank D. Essex street Merchant
Bentley Solon M. Walnut street Cashier
Bosworth George L. Pine street Agent
Brown John E. Bh street Manufacturer
Brown John N. Bh street Manufacturer
Burlingame John L. Walnut street Manufacturer
Bailey Harry  Northampton street Machinist
Ball Frederick T. Northampton street Miliwright
Bassett Frank H. Elm street Yardman
Batchelor Robert G. Chapin street Papermaker
Baush Henry Wolcott street Machinist
Begley Matthew B. Gates street Painter
Begley Thomas E. Willow street Painter
Best John C. Laurel street Printer
Bleasius John P. Hiteheoek street Machinist
Bradshaw George F. Willow street Asst. Supt.
Bray Thomas Westfield road Farmer
Briggs Samuel T. Carleton strect Presser
Bangs Gilbert C. Main street Paper Finisher
Bieber Max R. Jackson street Overseer
Braham George E. High street Mill Operative
Brown James Commercial street Mill Operative

  JURY LIST.
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Bibeau Louis Race street Wood and Coal
Beauchemin Joseph A. Summer street Butcher
Baril Pierre Jr. Adams street Machinist
Baillargeou Rodolphe Canal street Silk Weaver
Bessett Thaddeus Mosher street Restaurant
Barsalou Alvores’ Samosett street Lunch Cart
Beaulae William Bridge street Motorman i
Barrett Thomas J. Center street Bookkeeper |
Barnett George East Dwight street Papermaker |
Blackmer Louis E. Bowers street Milk Dealer |
Beauchamp Henry O. Bridge street Baker
Boyer Adolphe Park street Teamster |
Burnham Fred G. Main street Grain Dealet
Benoit Albert F.  East street Cigar Manufacturer
Belding Clark E. Grover street Hadley Co.
Biggins William E. East Dwight street Clerk ,
Bigness Henry Main street Papermaker
Bisaillon Joseph P. Appleton street Clerk
Blackmer Charles J. Bowers street Paper Mill
. Bronson Isaae C. Center street Machinist !
Barry James T. Maple street Insurance Agent
Beebe Albert A. Elm street Woolen Mill Operative
' Beloin Medrie H. Maple street Shipping Clerk .
Bresnahan Cornelius J. Sargeant street Laborer
Brockway Daniel B. Elm street Insurance Agent |
Brownlie William O. Worcester place Machinist
Burns Peter F. Maple street Steamfitter
Bernard Albert J. Chestnut street Clerk
Bogue Harry J. Cabot street Real Estate Agent
Bonvouloir Sigfroid J. Chestnut street Clerk
Bosworth Hiram ..E. Bond street Mill Operative
Bresnahan Cornelius J. Maple street Merchant
Batchelder Walter F. Pleasant street Bookkeeper

JURY LIST.  
C

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION

Crosby George B. Maple street Druggist
Carmody John M. High street Plumber
Cleary James F. Dwight street Inspector
Carpenter Mark B. High street Drugeist
Cavanaugh Jeremiah J. Pine street Butcher
Cronin Patrick High street Wire Worker
Cunningham Patrick Lyman street Papermaker
Connor Richard Bh street Printer
Conway Martin P. Dwight street Merchant
Crandell Thomas L. Linden street Doormaker

Courtney Daniel E. Maple street Shipping Clerk |

Curran Maurice Maple street Papermaker
Casey Bartholomew S. Lyman street Blacksmith
Casey James Chestnut street Fireman
Clark Robert Olive avenue Engineer
Clough James A. Hampden street Architect
Coburn Azro A. Pearl street Manufacturer
Craft Howard A. Northampton street Ins. Agent
Chapin Edwin C. Lawler street Salesman
Chase Edwin M. Northampton street Manager
Clarenbach George E. A. Carleton street Jeweler
Clark Elbert L. South street Clerk
Chase Edwin T. Davis street Ruler
Collinge William H. Jackson street Mill Operative
Cowie Robert Jackson street Machinist
Clark James East Dwight street Tea Dealer
Chevalier Charles West street Papermaker
Charest Odilon Z. E. Main street Furniture Dealer
Curley Francis J. Main street Contractor
Chevrette Charles E. Center street Clerk
Codaire Adolphus L. Main street Undertaker
Connor Thomas Center street Druegeist
Coyle Henry East street Paper Mill
- Cousineau Alfred F. Main street Plumber

  JURY LIST.

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Clifford Patrick J. Center street Watchman
Cleveland Harry B. Lyman street Druggist
Cummings Thomas F. Ely street Conductor
Carroll John H. Elm street Paper Mill Operative
Cavanaugh Nicholas Hampshire street Bookbinder
Cochran Hugh High street Machinist
Connor James J. Jr. Elm street Barber
Cramer Edward Cabot street Bookbinder
Curran Maurice Sargeant street Peddler
Cadden Robert Cabot street Bank Clerk
Cantin William High street Barber
Cassidy Edward L. Newton street Insurance Agent
Cooley Edward H. Newton street Molder
Cunningham John E. Iligh street Retired
Cuthbertson Archibald Chestnut street Bookkeeper
Courtney James F. Franklin street Clerk

D |
Dean Patrick  Elm street Papermaker
Driseoll James J.  Elm street Cigarmaker
Dean Engene Elm street Mill Operative
Dineen Florence P. Chestnut street Paper Mill
Dowd Patrick J. Lyman street Laborer
Devine Patrick J. Lyman street Tailor
Dillon Wilham J. Lyman street Undertaker
Donnelly Cornelius M. Maple street Butcher
Doran J. Joseph Fountain street Printer
Durnin James Front street Papermaker
Donoghue Cornelius C. Chestnut street Paper Mull
Donoghue Florence, Chestnut street Paper Mill
Dowd James J. Dwieht street Agent
Doyle Stephen H. Miller avenue Printer
Downey Bernard J.  Maple street Janitor
Donoghue Timothy, Chestnut street Storekeeper
Dowdell Lawrence, Bh street Fireman

JURY LIST.  
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Driscoll Stephen Elm street Clerk
Donoghue Hugh M. Chestnut street Storekeeper
Delaney James J. Arlington street Manufacturer
Dickinson Louis Parker street Machinist |
Donnelly Peter J. Dwight street Steamfitter
Davis Isadore Washington avenue Merchant
Dean Eli Willow street Weaver
Dansereau Francois X. Sprinefield street Marble Worker
Denton Robert J. Maple street Engineer
Doyle James C. Avon Place Molder
Durnin James Mosher street Paper Mill Operative
Doucette William Spring street Conductor
Dougherty William T. Main street Machinist
Dean Robert F. Bridge street Motorman
Deniger Charles Jr. East street Painter
Denehy John J. West street Paper Finisher
Desilets Joseph East Dwight street Clerk
Delorme Alcide Bridge street Clerk
Dugas Firmin Hamilton street Cigar Maker
Donais Peter East Dwight street Collector
Duke Maurice F. Cabot street Grocer
Dooling Thomas J. Summer street Beamer
Dupuis Moise Park street Clerk
Danehy Thomas J. Maple street Triminer
Delhagen Isaac O. Jr. Maple street Mill Operative
Donohue Edward J. Hampshire street Paper Ruler
Dowd Lawrence F’. Sargeant street Clerk
Doyle John E. Worcester place Mill Operative
Driscoll William Elm street  Insurance Agent
Dempsey Patrick F. Maple stret Stenographer
Dunbar Charles R. Maple street Merchant
E
Ernest J. Lansing Sonoma place Treasurer
Evans John J. Clinton avenue Machinist
Eagan Michael. J. Chestnut street Piper

  JURY LIST.

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Ely Franklin W. Locust street Lumber Dealer
Engle William M. Oak street Insuranee Agent
Emery Louis E. Bowers street Clerk
England George H. Dwight street Jeweler
Egan Bernard F. Bridge street Papermaker
Edwards Joseph B. High street Compositor
Emond Theodore R. High street Holyoke St. Ry. Co.

| |

Fitzgerald Thomas Maple street Papermaker
Fitzgerald Michael Elm street Meateutter
Fitzgerald Thomas F. Maple street  Agent
Finn John J. Dwight street Coal Dealer
Fitzgerald Thomas F. Lyman street Janitor
Fleming Frank Lyman street Mule Spinner
Feldman Nathan N. Walnut street Clerk
Flynn Daniel Dwight street Twister
Fitzgerald Patrick Bh street Foreman
Fitzgerald Thomas Elm street Foreman
Ford Charles J. Allyn street Manufacturer
Frink Herbert J. Pine street Manager
Farr Simeon View street ‘Weaver
Feather Frank Washington avenue Tinner
Fitzgerald Michael Gates street Brick Mason
Farrell Owen F. Spring street Mill Operative
Fitzsimmons Philip P. Main street Clerk
Fortier Fred Samosett street Molder
Frappier Henry  Ely street Weaver
Flynn Maurice B. Main street Paper Maker
Foley Patrick F. East street Mill Operative
Fournier Amedee Bridge street Silk Weaver
Finn Martin  East street Teamster
Fitzgerald Maurice E. Chestnut street Laborer
Francoeur Samuel L. S+ Hampshire street Barber
Freeman John T. Bristol place Beamer

| JURY LIST.  
G
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Garvey John J. Hampden street Expressman
Griffin John A. Pine street Junk Dealer
Greaney Patrick J. o) Fountain street Piper Coverer
Glidden Charles E. Chestnut street Peddler
Guttermuth Henry Walnut street Butcher
Goss Elbert E. High street Papermaker
Green Patrick Walnut street Retired
Griffin Joseph F. Pine street Collector
Greaney Frank L. Bh street Clerk —
Gradv Bernard J. High street Clerk
Grady Jeremiah J. Elm street Papermaker
Gallivan Andrew D. A. Fountain street Merchant
Gordon Michael J. Elm street Stonecutter
Gingras George W. High street Undertaker
Goddu Joseph D. Prospect street Agent
Gill George C. Northampton street Banker
Gilligan Peter J. Pearl street Pension Agent
Garside Arnold L. Elm street Overseer
- Greene Horace W. Walnut street Merchant
Garvey Thomas J. Chapin street Machinist
Goodyear Austin B. Laurel street Engineer Asst.
Goss John E. Linden street Salesman
Gardner William Commercial street Miliwright
Geissler Gustave A. Grant street  Clerk
, Geissler Max G. James street Bindery
Gillon Charles E. Jackson street Twister
Graham Henry E. Park street Millwright
Greaney Edward J. Jackson street Operative
Grandchamp Samuel Summer street Mill Operative
Gibson Joseph East Dwight street Clerk |
Garrity Thomas H. East street Insurance Agent
Grise Arthur E. Main street Butcher
Goodrich Charles H. Grover street Bathhouse Keeper
Green George A. Center street Paper Ruler

  JURY LIST.

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Glenn Henry Worcester place Retired
Goddu Frank B. High street Grocer
Goss Elbert Elm street Paper Mill Operative
Green Isadore Sargeant street Salesman
Girard George  Bond street Paper Mill Emp.
Gorman Edward J. Cabot street Cigar Manufacturer
Griffin Bartholomew High street Envelope Maker

H

Hennessey William Chestnut street Laborer
Hendrix David A. Maple street Paper Mill
Hobert James P. Maple street Undertaker
Humes Ira J. Oak street Foreman
Hand Peter Front street Shipping Clerk
Harrop Samuel R. Bh street Beamer
Hart Thomas J. Elm street Paper Mill
Hyland Patrick J. Clinton avenue Fireman
Hastings Charles C. Northampton street Farmer
Heywood Charles D. Northampton street Boiler Mfg.
Hubbard Jerrie N. Pearl street Printer
Hevwood Wilham H. Elm street Asst. Treasurer
Hubert George C. Elm street sec. Y. M. C. A.
Humeston Caleb J. Pine street. Bookkeeper
Hills George H. Lawler avenue Blacksmith
Hodge James L. Glen street Papermaker
Hofman Ernest Congress avenue Dyer ,
Hogan Patrick View street Fireman
Hyde James H. Commercial street Molder
Hunter Robert W.  Canal street Mill Operative
Hebert Arthur Ely street Druggist
Halfpenny John. Main street Retired
Hamel Alphonse Main street Sewing Machine Agent
Hennick Frederick W. Race street Painter
Heey Ignatz Park street Carpenter
Hoffmann Gustave E. Bridge street Paper Finisher

JURY LIST.  
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION”
Hogan Maurice Main street Teamster
Heinritz Hermann East street Druggist
Hyde Fred W. Bowers street Clerk
Hunt Thomas Chestnut street Farr Alpaca Co.
Hamel John B. High street Barber
Hemphill Ashton E. High street Warehouseman
Hennessy Thomas J. High street Plumber
Holmes Leon Maple street Paper Finisher
House Charles H. Chestnut street Machinist
| |
Ingraham Parker N. Dwight street Gas Meter Deliverer
Irvine John West street Paper Mill Operative
, J
Johannis Robert Bh street Painter
Judd John K. Pleasant street Paper Dealer
Jenks Charles C. Linden street Manufacturer
Jessop Joseph Sargeant street Watchman
Julien Arthur Main street Machinist
Johnson Cornelius —. Chestnut street Papermaker
Johnson Robert M. High street Real Estate Agent
Joyce Thomas J. High street Machinist
Jagger James E. Maple street Holyoke Plush Co. .
 Judge Thomas A. Maple street Retired
K |
Kerin Michael Lyman street  Watehman
Kuehn Ernest H. Lyman street Printer
Kane Eugene F. Pine street Water Inspector
Kelly Edward C. Fountain street Freight Clerk .
Kane John Hampden street Mason
Kelly Michael J. Brown avenue Retired
Koegel William Brown avenue Machinist
Klopfer Herman Bridge street Painter

  JURY LIST.

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Kable Ernest Grover street Freight Handler
Kearns Michael J. Main street Plumber
Kennedy Thomas Cabot street Teamster
Keating Thomas Commercial street Mill Operative |
Kennedy James J. Hampshire street Machinist |
Keane Patrick J. High street Machinist
Kinuean Michael J. High street Baker
Kingsley Michael J. Dwight street Electric Light Station

L .

Leahy Daniel Elm street Shoemaker
Lynch Patrick J. Lyman street Mason
Lynch Thomas J. Maple street Merchant
Labonte Francis High street Storekeeper
Laduke Edward T. Pleasant street Dentist
Little George A. Hampden street Teamster
Lynch John F. Dwight street Briekmason
Lynch Maurice J. Jr. Dwight street Brickmason ;
Lowe David H. Suffolk street Papermaker
Lyons Thomas P. Hampden street Mill Operative
Lamb James Hampden street Papermaker .
Lunn [Joraece A. Taylor street Expressman
Lyman Eugene K. Beacon avenue Merehant
Lassiter James  Bh street Shipping Clerk !
Lavalle Albert H. Westfield street Architect i
Livermore Walter C. Northampton street Bookkeeper
Lynds Everett IT. Ilarrison avenue  Bookkeeper
Lauekner Gustave O. South street Clothier
Leidner Albert OQ. James street Painter
Labreeque Louis East street Machinist .
Langlois William Lyman street Clerk
Laverty Frank Potvin avenue Lunch Cart
Lipps Frank F. East Dwight street Clerk
Leary Patrick J. East Dwight street Papermaker
Laplante Victor S. East street Buteher

JURY LIST.  

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Lafontaine Adelard  Hamilton street Weaver
Langevin George Appleton street Fireman
Lamagdelaine Romuald O. East strect Printer
Lapierre Frank Center street Machinist
Langeler Victor East street Harnessmaker
Laviolette Edward Bowers street Carpenter
Lang Andrew Woreester place Mill Operative
Linehan Frank Maple street Gasmaker
Lippman George Maple street Pressman
Lacroix George W. Bond street Papercutter
Larkin Michael O. Chestnut street Musie Dealer
Lawler Edward Maple street Ruler
Leseault Joseph High street Foreman
Lyneh Dennis F. Chestnut street Insurance Agent

MI

Moriarty Thomas J. Dwight street Inspector
McCarthy William V. Clinton avenue Dancing Master
MeMaster Robert A. Brooks avenue Painter
Moreland Wilham J. Sonoma place Merchant
Millane John J. Dwight street Druggist
Malev Patrick Walnut street Papermaker
MeGuire Arthur High street Barber
Morin Mizael M. Haigh street Manager
Manning John J. Lyman street Foreman
Menard Joseph K. Union street Clerk
Masse Joseph High street Merchant
Mullen John F. Elm street Butcher
Menard Henry Elm street Brass Moulder
MeMahon George H. Fountain street Carpenter
MeNally John R. Prospect street Grocer
Murphy James Maple street Teamster
Morrison William J. Walnut street Tinner
Myers William H. Pleasant street Clerk
MeCearn John Suffolk street Engineer

  JURY LIST.

“NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Moore Anthony High street Superintendent
McCarthy Eugene J. Miller avenue Shipping Clerk
Moynahan Maurice J. Dwight street Machinist
Moriarty Patrick J. O’Connor avenue Foreman
MeNamara Patrick Clinton avenue Blank Book Cont.
Marra Timothy Maple street Grocer
MeCorkindale Dunean Lincoln street Asst. Superintendent
MeLane Frederick A. North Pleasant street Superintendent
Meacham Edward J. Lineoln street See. Farr Alpaca Co.
Morton Alfred H. Jr.  Fairfield avenue Papermaker
Mackintosh John G. Elm street Banker
Magna Albert G. Oak street Insurance Agent
Mauer William A. Bh street Agt. Germania Mills
MeLean Thomas Maple street Retired
MeNab William Locust street Clerk
Metealf Frank H. T.inden street Farr Alpaca Co.
Munroe Philip J. Walnut street Wood Worker
Marshal] Henry Bh street Mill Operative
MeIntosh Arthur A. Congress street Conductor
MeLean Patrick View street Merchant
Mennell Alfred Willow street Machinist
Murray James Chapin street Envelope Trimmer
Mosler Joseph Vernon street. Printer
Menton John Jackson street Machine Fixer
MeDonnell John F. East Dwight street Stoneeutter
MeGrath Wilham F. East Dwight street Mechanie
MeGuire Peter  West street Paper Mill Operative
Miller George East street Painter
Mohan Henry L. East Dwieht street Papermaker
Montealm Adolphus East Dwight street Clerk

) Mullen Edward West street Mill Operative
Munsie James West street Clerk
Maley David J. Mosher street Laborer
McQuillan Frank Ely street Park Keeper
Muir Thomas  Center street  Papermaker
MeDonald Alexander  East Dwight street Paper Ruler

JURY LIST.  

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Mahoney John West street Tinner
Marrs Harlan F. East Dwight street -Papermaker
Mullen Cornelius Main street Boilermaker
Moore Edward East street Fireman
Marcotte Hubert Spring street Butcher
Menard Edward of Race street Millwright
Monty Louis C.  Hamilton street Thread Finisher
Moreau Odilon  Park street Butcher
Morin Damase F. Hamilton street Machinist
MeCabe Joseph ‘East Dwight street Papermaker
MacGregor Edward Elm street Nat. Blank Book Co.
MeConville Cornelius Sargeant street Machinist
McHugh Edward B. Elm street Molder
McHugh: Thomas Maple street Molder
Murphy Daniel Chestnut street Foreman
MeCarthy John K. High street Retired
MeDonald George P. Newton street Clerk
MeGarry Thomas F. Bond street Paper Finisher
McKeefe John A. Appleton street Butcher

N
Nolen Joseph P. Maple street Clerk
Nightingale George Lineoln street Paper Stock Dealer
Newcomb Charles L. of Fairfield avenue. Manager
Neumann W. Otto  Vernon street Mill Operative
Needham William H. Dwight street Porter
Newton Herbert B. Essex street Superintendent
Nickerson Ruel R. Essex street Merchant
O |

O’Connor Arthur V. Dwight street Agent
O’Connor Edward F. Pine street Merchant
O’Donnell Joseph A. Dwight street Undertaker
Osborne Harrison D. Dwight street Coachman
O’Connor John J. Dwight street Real Estate

  JURY LIST.

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
O’Connor John J. Beacon avenue Merchant
O’Connell George W. Pine street Lunch Room
O’Connor Frank D. Walnut street Mill Operative
O’Reilly Thomas Lyman street Loom Fixer
Osborne Henry Lyman street Pump Worker
O’Donnell Terence Linden street Steamfitter
O’Neill John S. Sargeant street Inspector
O’Neill Lawrence A. Walnut street Insurance Agent
Outterson Charles A. Oak street Mill Supt.
Owens James F. Bh street Insurance Agent
O’Co or John J. Laurel street Papermaker
O’Connor James J.  Canal street Asst. Engineer
Oldroyd Thomas High street Retired

| P
Porter James T. Suffolk street Paper Mill
Purrington Edward C. Maple street Bookkeeper
Prendiville Edward F. Bh street Clerk
Potter Byron I. Suffolk street Manager
Parker George Bh street Paper Mill
Paine Albert C. ol Nonotuck street Paymaster
Parker Joseph R. Morgan street Superintendent
Parsons George S. Waldo street Superintendent
Potter Charles Waldo street Millwright
Prentiss Marden W. Pleasant street Manufacturer
Philips Benjamin F.  Tavlor street. Bookkeeper
Parker Ambrose E. Laurel street Manager
Potvin Gilbert Jr.  Northampton street  B.of P. Works
Prentice George M. Laurel street Overseer
Preseott William H. Longwood avenue Salesman
Prevost Ernest Ely street Harnessmaker
Pillsbury Levi Dwight street Mill Operative
Potvin Adelard M. Cabot street Clothier
Peters Gustave Park street Machinist
Peltier Joseph A. East street Grocer

JURY LIST.  

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Pariseau Henry Summer street Millwright
Parent John N. Main street Paper Mill Operative
Pelland Japhet Main street Silk Weaver
Powers Richard M. Hampshire street Cigarmaker
Pratt Alexander Franklin street Mill Operative

Q
Quigley Francis Ely court Clerk
Quinn John Summer street Fireman
R ,

Reynolds Thomas F. Elm street Mason
Ranger William E. Maple street Contractor
Roache James M. Dwight street Barber
Rutt John M. Linden street Master Mechanic
Roy John T. High street Merchant
Ryan Patrick F.  Clinton avenue Foreman
Regan Nicholas S. Clinton avenue Gage Taker
Robinson Joseph High street Mason
Ramage James M. Lincoln street Manufacturer
Redington William E. Fairfield avenue Mill Supt.
Rodgers Sidney S. Pleasant street Crocker Paper Div.
Ross William R. Parker street Grain Dealer
Ryan John D. Pearl street Journalist
Reid George W. Walnut street Fireman
Richard Alphonse F. Bh street Merchant
Rogers Clarence W. Harrison avenue Clerk
Rogers Kossuth J. Laurel street Painter
Ruther Moritz E. Glen street Cigarmaker
Richter Otto F. Glen street Plumber
Rittmeyer Heinrich Meadow street Instructor
Rider Henry H. Bridge street Deane Steam Pump
Ryan John H.  Bowers street Paper Finisher
Roy Samuel M. Maple street Mill Operative

  JURY LIST.
Ss

NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Schott Andrew Oak street Clerk
Shea John F.Chestnut street Pressman
Smith William R. P. High street Clerk
Shea Daniel F. Lyman street Merchant 
Sullivan J. Henry Lyman street Merchant
Sullivan James J. Walnut street Clerk
Shaw Walter Suffolk street Clerk
Sullivan Thomas A. Miller avenue Bookkeeper
Slattery Jeremiah Maple street Plumber
Sheehan John F. Front street Moulder
Sutton William High street Paper Mull
Shea Patrick do Chestnut street Paper Mull
Shea Daniel F. Hampden street Paper Mill
Sanderson Robert W. Lincoln street Grocer
Senior Charles A. Hampden street Clothier
Shea Richard Nonotuck street Supt. Alleys
Smith Charles M. O. Pleasant street Jeweler
Stedman Robert B. Cottage avenue Laundryman
Skimner Joseph A. Appleton street Manufacturer .
Smith James W. Elm street Mill Supt.
Sullivan Jeremiah A. Pine street Retired
Smith Enos D. Brown avenue Papermaker
Smith George E. Myrtle avenue Loom Fixer
Sorton Albert Davis street Spinner
Spamer George T. South street Machinist
Stalker James Brown avenue Papermaker
Stansfield John A. Mvrtle avenue Conductor
Scheibel George E. Meadow street Laborer
Schubach Richard Springdale avenue Carpenter
Sliney James P. Ely street Barber
Spafford Henry H.  West street Carpenter
Sutehffe Samuel Main street Mill Operative
St. Martin Joseph  Race street Assessor
Sheridan John J. Center street Carpenter

: JURY LIST.  
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Smith Albert Main street Jeweler
Spring Louis A. Hamilton street Weaver
Sullivan Florence P. Grover street Thread Finisher
Sullivan John B. Bowers street Motorman
Sanderson, George W. Maple street Hol. Plush Co.
Shea Michael F. Maple street. Merchant
Shearer Frederick Chestnut street Overseer
Sheehan Vincent D. P. Maple street Chauffeur
Smith Theodule Maple street Butcher
Sullivan Jeremiah Chestnut street Machinist
Swords John J. Maple street Piper
Stalker George D. Elm street Papermaker
Stocks Fred D. Cabot street Plumber
T

Toomey Dennis J. Elm street Builder
Topham Abraham Suffolk street Warp Dresser
Thorpe William  Lincoln street Bookkeeper
Tilley Chfton F. Morgan street Merchant
Towne William E. Oak street Publisher
Twing Phihp H. Pine street Clerk
Thorpe James F. Westfield street Papermaker
Tauscher Ernest R. James street Machinist
Tiedemann Gustave E. South Bridge street Clerk
Thompson Charles Bridge street Papermaker
Therrien Alfred Bowers street Agent
Teahan Irving C. Lyman street Collector

Tetrault Philias J. Bridge street Baker

Tait John Elm street Linden Paper Co.

Taylor Harry M. Newton street Bookkeeper

Train John O. Maple street Clerk

Tryon Willis C. Bond street Papermaker

  JURY LIST.
U
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Utley Lewis S. Maple street Clerk
| V
Van Valkenburg Charles W. Bh street Clerk
Van Valkenberg Levi D. Laurel street Overseer
Voght Frank James street Machinist
Viens William  Mosher street Clerk
Vaughn James Newton street Mill Operative
Vozella Michael Elm street Prop. Shining Parlor
Ww |

Wolohan James J. School street Weaver
Waite Leonard Pine street Cigar Manufacturer
Waters Daniel F. Walnut street Clerk
White John J. ‘Bh street Manufacturer
Wisly Jacques Maple street Printer
Woods John H. Oak street Real Estate
Winn John M. Dwight street Thread Mill
Waite Coleman H. Williams street Manager
Warner Lewis Pearl street Bookkeeper
Williams Fred  Hampden street Salesman
Willams Daniel M. Taylor street Expressman
Walker Elijah C. Linden street Manager
Webber Frederick S. Sveamore street Manufacturer
Whipple Alfred A. Dwight street Motorman
Whiting Creighton W. Oak street Manager
Whitten Sumner H. Locust street Draughtsman
Wilkinson Thomas H. Appleton street Overseer
Wood John Dwight street Tinner
Wade Frank IT. Carleton street Printer
} Wilms Gustave A. Glen street Expert
Walsh Redmond Glen street Machinist

JURY LIST.  
NAME RESIDENCE OCCUPATION
Wall John Race street Motor Works
Wilson Henry Mosher street Teamster
 Widdowson William  Center street Shipping Clerk
Walsh Michael R. Maple street Machinist
Williston Roland Elm street Ely Lumber Co.
Warren Ernest E. Appleton street Printer
Wood George Bond street Painter
| '
Young John W. Taylor street Paymaster
Prepared in accordance with the requirements of Chapter ‘of
the Revised Laws of Massachusetts.
| CHARLES U. ROY,
THOMAS STANSFIELD,
JAMES J. DUNN,
: JOHN F. SHEEHAN, C.ierx.
‘Board of Registrars of Voters.

| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
, ALDERMEN. |
WARD. WARD.
 —William Grover. o—John O’Donnell.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Aug. Stursberg. i—J. F. Allyn.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —Curtis Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —G. W. Burditt, C. B. Harris,  F. Stebbins.
Ward  —Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew Walsh.
Ward  —W. D. Higgins, H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt.
Ward  —Mauriece Lynch, John O’Connell, J. A. Sullivan.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —R. M. Fairfield, H. A. Pratt, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Grover. d—Edw. O’Connor.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss. ,
 —Matthew Walsh. i—J. F. Allyn.
 —- John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
 President, C. H. Heywood.

Ward  —John Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.

Ward  —C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, G. H. Smith.

Ward  —Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler.

Ward —S. J. Donahue, Peter McKeon, E. A. Newton.

Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue,

Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.

| Ward  —Horace Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben Winchester. .

Clerk—C. W. Rider.

City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.

City Treasurer—William Whiting.

Messenger—J. H. Clitford.

  CITY OFFICERS.
-  CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 J—William Ruddy. a—Maurice Lynch.
 —C. B. Harris.  —C. H. Heywood.
 —H. Springborn.  —J. F. Allyn.
 —S. J. Donoghue. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
. COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, G. H. Smith, E. Whitaker.
Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J. S. Webber.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’Donnell.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M. Manning.
Ward  —A. D. Barker, J. E. Delaney, J. H. Newton.
Ward  —H. C. Ewing,  T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay. a
City Treasurer—William Whiting. ,
Messenger—J. H. Clifford (deceased), J. R. Howes.

CITY OFFICERS.  
{
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
. a
) .
Mayor, Wi Lu AM Ruppy.
, ALDERMEN.
— WARD. WARD.
 —John D. Walsh.  —John O’Donnell.
 —F. R. Norton.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —Henry Winkler.  —Wilham  S. Perkins.
 James P. Casey. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
Ward  —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger. Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W.
Maher.
Ward  —John J. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John MeDonald.
Ward  —Pierre Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy
J. Ryan.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy :
Haley. .
Ward  —Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A. |
Whiting.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John B.
Munn.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
, Mayor, F. P. GooDALu.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger. o-—D. J. Landers.
 —Fred Morrison.  —E. A. Whiting.
 —P. J. Sheridan.  —R. Winchester.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Hervey K. Hawes.
Ward  —Michael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel  S. Chapman.
Ward  —Roval C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller, Dwight O.
Judd. .
Ward  —Herbert Hicks, Lyman F. Thorpe, Charles R.
Heubler.
Ward  —George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E. Herbert.
Ward d—James  Lee, John F. Shea, Thomas Pendergast.
| Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H.
Smith.
Ward  —Charles C. Hastings, Lyman B. Moore, John B.
Munn. }
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
— City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenever—Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS.  
: CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, RoswEuu P. Crarts. ,
ALDERMEN. )
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger. o—John O’Donnell.
 —Isaae Tirrell.  b—William A. Chase.
 —C. R. Heubler.  —-W, T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Amos Andrews.
Ward  —Wilham Brennan, James Spillane, Wilham H.
Jess.
Ward  —E. R. Pieree, Joseph Beauchemin, George W.
| Richards.
Ward  —J. K. MeCarthy, D. Driseoll, W. E. O’Keefe.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, Thomas Pendergast, Michael
O’Keefe.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, H. H. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk—J. FE. Stapleton. .
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet. |
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS. .
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
| Mayor, R. P. CraFrts. |
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. |
 —M. J. Teahan.  S. Donoghue.
 —G. H. Smith.  —D. H. Donoghue.
 H. Springborn.*  —C. H. Heywood.
A. Stursberg.  —G. P. Ellison.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
, President, C. D. Colson.
Ward  —John Ford, Richard Patte, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Michael Lynch, M. M. Mitivier. |
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sullivan. .
Ward  —E. W. Chapin, E. A, Ramsay, Porter Underwood.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Resiened.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING. |
ALDERMEN. |
WARD. WARD. :
 —T. S. Grover.  —C. D. Colson.
 C. B. Harris.*  —D. E. Sullivan. |
G. H. Smith.  —William Skinner.
 A. Stursberg.**  —G. P. Ellison.
James Stafford. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. E. Syms.
Ward  —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaae Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, E. F. Sullivan.
Ward  —James P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte
Marie.
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, E. O’Connor, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Henry C. Cady, J. S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
; Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Died March **Resiened.

  CITY OFFICERS. |
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Wilham Ruddy.  —D. E. Sullivan.
 —F.. R. Norton.  —William Skinner. ,
 —Henry Winkler.  —William  S. Perkins.
 —Charles D. Colson. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
  COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John O’Donnell.
Ward  —G. C. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D. Walsh. |
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin P.
 Goodall.

Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.

Ward  —Vietor Guyott, Peter MeKeon, T. J. Ryan.

Ward —Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O’Donnell. .

Ward  —H. C. Cady, J.  S. MeElwain, Levi Perkins.

Ward  —Berijah H. Kaewin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden
W. Prentiss.

Clerk—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk—J ames E. Delaney.

City Treasurer—James R. Howes.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
. Mayor, RosweE.u P. Crarts.
| ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Casper Ranger. d-—John O’Donnell. ,
.  —Isaae Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser.
—  —John T. Lynch.  —W. T. Dean. .
 Thomas Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
“COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President; C. O. Warner.

Ward  —Woilliam H. Jess, John M. Sheridan, M. C.
Browne.

Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.

Ward  —J. K. MeCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal.

Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, Frank  Lynch, J. J. Prew.

Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sulli- ,
van.

Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.

Ward  —C. C. Hastines, D. H. Ives, A. N. Ricker.

Clerk—Simon Brooks. City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Charles W. Rantlet.

Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —James Greeley. o—E. O’Connor.
,  -—Isaae Tirrell.  —Elias P. Ford.
 —John T. Lynch.  —C. C. Hastings. |
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue.

Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey.

Ward  —George W. Richards, Didace “Sainte-Marie,
Thomas H. Sears.

‘ Ward  —John Loweoek, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.

Ward  —William Sullivan,* Matthew Doherty, Thomas
O’Donnell, Amede F. Gingras.

Ward  —Roger P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody, Michael
Manning.

Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli L. Brockett, John J.
Reardon.

Ward  —Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M.
Gilmore.

Clerk, John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.

Messenger—William T. Walsh. ,

*Died November .

CITY OFFICERS. 
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. |
 —William Reardon. o—R. P. Donoghue. |
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Eli J. Brockett.
 —J. K. McCarthy.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
, COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.
Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G. MeCarthy.
| Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F.
Doyle.
Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F.. Canavan. |
- Ward  —Thomas O’Donnell, P. F. Carmody, Matthew
Doherty.
Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas J. Fitzgerald. .
Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting, John L. Burlingame. .
Ward  —John K. Judd,  B. Allyn,  S. M. Gilmore,*
George W. Doane.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—E. L. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigned.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
| Mayor, JAMES J. O’CONNOR.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
i—J. J. Sheridan.  —R. P. Donoghue.
 —Francis J. Curley.  —William E. Syms.
 —James J. Curran. —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John K. Judd.
Ward  —James C. Keough, William A. Casey, Jeremiah
G. McCarthy.
Ward  —James H. Fitzsimmons, Edward Donohue, James
W. Toole. |
Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J.
Westphal.
Ward  —James H. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning, Matthew Doherty.
Ward  —James F. Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F.
Greaney.
. Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, Charles H. Whiting, Charles
L. Neweomb.
; Ward  —John K. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M.
Cain.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin. ,
City Treasurer—Osear Ely.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O’CONNOR.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William H. Jess. o—James F.. Cleary.
 —James W. Toole.  —William E. Syms.
 —Henry Winkler.  —John Hildreth.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. }
President, James C. Keough.
Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholomew J. Lynch. ,
Ward  —Edward Donohue, Thomas J. Gibson, Nazaire
Beliveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bleumer.
Ward  —Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis SS. .
Paquette.
Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.
Ward  —Charles L. Neweomb, Henry E. McElwain, J.
Sanford Webber. Ward —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Richard C.
Kilduff.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Edward L. Munn.
Messenger—W illiam T. Walsh. |

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.

WARD. WARD.
 —L. F. Haywood, Jr.  —John Dillon.
 —J. W. Toole. o—H. E. McElwain.
a H. Winkler.*  —C. L. Newcomb.

M. Manning.  —John Hildreth.

Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Michael J. Lavelle.

Ward  —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John
Blasius.

Ward  —Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Beliveal.

Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C.
Kelly.

Ward  —John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis Herbert.

Ward  —Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D. Perkins. :

Ward  —Charles L. Allen, Lucius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.

Ward  —George L. Thorpe, John Longway, Jr., George V.
Osgood.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin. :

City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

*Resigned June  .

- CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F’. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN. .
WARD. WARD. ,
 —John C. Sullivan.  —Richard Shea.
 —Wilham Buckley.  —Dennie L. Farr.
 —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier. ,
 —Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, J. J. Callanan. |
Ward  —John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen.
Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J.
Kennedy.
Ward  —James F’. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J. Taylor.
Ward  —Patrick A. Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene Shea. ,
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W.
Doran. |
Ward  —Lucius Ely, C. L. Allen, James L. Davis.
Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George V.
Osgood. Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
. ———— -
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
. ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. ,
 —M. P. Conway.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  —C. D. Colson.  —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier. |
 —N. J. Baker. Clerk, M. J. Griffin. ,
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas Connor.

Ward  —William Brockway, Joseph A. Peltier, Maurice J.
Sullivan.

Ward  —Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C.
O’Leary. |

Ward  —Herman Heinritz, John J. Taylor, Onesime

— Viens.

Ward  —Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene
Shea.

Ward  —Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles MeCollister. .

Ward  —Lucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Mederie J.
Laporte.

Ward  —Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Frederick C.
Steele.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.

Messenger— William T. Walsh. .

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, MicHAEL J. GRIFFIN.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD. ]
 i—M. P. Conway. o—J. J. Callanan.
 —T. J. Kennedy.  —J. P. Prescott.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —R. P. Donoghue. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
 COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway, John H. Ryan, Maurice J.
Sullivan. |
Ward  —John Black, Arthur B. C. DeLaunay, Cornelius
O’Leary.
Ward  —Max C. Burkhardt, Ulric Perreault, Albert C.
Renner. ,
Ward  —Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  —John E. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel J. ,
O’Connell.
Ward  —Mederie J. Laporte, Stephen E. Gifford, John B.
Miller.
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles MeCollister, Henry
D. Wiliams.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. |
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger—W illiam T. Walsh. )

  CITY OFFICERS. |
 CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, EREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
, ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —William Haney. d—A. Higginbottom.
 —Antoine Marcotte.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele. :
 —-Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
; President, Henry D. Williams.
Ward  —Joseph Hebert, Henry L. Mohan, John H. Ryan.
Ward  —John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perreault, Paul Schubach.
 Ward  —Frank O. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P.
Sullivan. }
Ward  —William L. Bishop, Patrick H. Brennan, William
B. Miles.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, George E. Pickup, Frank C.
‘Webber. |
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. McCollister,
Henry D. Williams...
Clerk—John F. Stapleton. |
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger—Williain T. Walsh.

} CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  ..
Mayor, DENNIE L. Farr.
ALDERMEN. |
President, Michael Connors. |
WARD. WARD.
|  —William Haney,  —J. J. Callanan.
 —Fred St. Martin.  -—M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 —T. J. Dillon. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
| President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Patrick Gear, Joseph Hebert, David H. Toole.
Ward  —Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril T.
Labrecque.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor  Laplante, Ernest
R. Tauscher.
Ward  —Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O’Connor, Daniel
P. Sullivan. |
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, John Naylor, Frank C. Webber. .
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edward B. Evans, Charles M.
Hartzell.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. |

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MARCIENE H. WHITCOMB.
ALDERMEN. .
President, Rufus B. Holmes.
WARD. WARD.
 —T. J. Lynch. o—R. S. Burns.
 —F. St. Martin.  —James A. Allyn.
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 P, W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien. |
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.

Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole,* John Daly,
James Wall.

Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H.
Prendiville.

Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest
R. Tauscher. .

Ward  —Frank Fitzgerald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyme
S. Menard. |

Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.

Ward  —Elbert Goss, Frederick N. Ricker, Edward N.
White.
 Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M.
Hartzell.

Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.

City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

* Resigned. ,

CITY OFFICERS.  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, HeENry A. CHASE.
ALDERMEN.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. o—Richard S. Burns. |
 —F red St. Martin.  —John Wall. |
-  —Richard H. Dietz.  -—George H. Lynds.
 —Thomas J. Lynch. ,
. COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.

Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary. |

Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H.
Prendiville. :

Ward  —John H. Donoghue, Victor  Laplante, William
J. Mahoney. |

Ward  —John J. MelIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F.
Sullivan.

Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah

. oJ. Linehan.

Ward  —Edwin M. Chase, Elbert Goss, Caleb J. Humeston.

Ward  —Conrad V. Hein, Charles P. Randall, William

. O. White.

Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh. —

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. CURRAN.
ALDERMEN.
' President, Timothy J. Lynch. :
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Adam Leining.  —Frank Feather.
 —-Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. )
President, Patrick H. Prindiville.
Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O'Leary.

Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr., Henry P. Cunningham,
Patrick H. Prindiville. |

Ward  —John H. Connor, William J. Mahoney, Patrick
W. O’Rourke.

Ward  —William J. Dillon, John J. MecIntee, John J.
Riley.

Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, Edward J. Kenney, William
O’Connell.

Ward  —William D. Bunnell, Thomas H. Kearney, Henry
Reed.

Ward  —James Collingwood, Charles Randall, Homer J.
Stratton.

Clerk—John P. MeTigue. |

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. |

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, GEorRGE H. SMITH.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Henry A. Collins. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton. .
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Salime J. Benoit. William J. Ryan. ,
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George Savoy.
Morris Hicks. James H. Staples.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  -—Elbert Goss.
  —Frank Feather.  —Charles P. Randall.
 —Patrick J. O’Connor.
| City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MicHarEL CONNORS.
President af the Board of Aldermen, Hugh MeLean.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Henry A. Collins. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. '
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Michael J. Doyle.
 —Samuel Migneault.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Frank Feather. i—James H. Wylie, Jr.
 —Jaimes S. Lacey.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
| Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Hugh McLean.
Adam Leining. William MeCorkindale.
Edwin L. Squier. |
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Joseph J. Beaudry. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
| ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. —Michael J. Doyle.
 —Samuel Migneault.  —William G. Beaudro.
 —Moritz E. Ruther. i—Frank B. Towne.
 Joseph A. O’Donnell.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
: CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin. |
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker. :
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
| Marciene H. Whitcomb. |
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. William McCorkindale.
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. |
WARD. WARD.
i—John P. McTigue. o—Michael J. Doyle.
|  —Arthur R. Vincent.  —Wilham G. Beaudro.
 —Herbert C. Clark.  —Frank B. Towne.
 —Florence Donoghue.
| City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John €. Doran.

: CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  ,
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Michael J. Doyle.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE. (FOR TWO YEARS).
William G. Beaudro. John J. Finn.
| Edward F. Dowd. Charles  S. Hemingway.
William O. Ducharme. James M. Kennedy. .
William MecCorkindale.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).'
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. )
WARD. WARD.
|  —Dennis O’Leary. dS—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —John C. Carlin.
 —John R. Allan.  —Frank B. Towne.
 —F'rank B. Towne.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.* |
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.** |
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran. :
*Died April .
**Elected City Clerk by Board of Aldermen, April .

  CITY OFFICERS. ’
; CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan.  John Stalker.
‘ Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). ,
Charles S. Hemingway. Edward F. Dowd.
Wilham O. Ducharme. William G. Beaudro.
John J. Finn. James M. Kennedy. ,
Wilham MeCorkindale.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Dennis O’Leary. o—Eugene F. Kane.
 —-Eugene Laramay.  b—John D. Dearden.
  &—Leon W. Bliss. (—Thomas W. Holley.
 —Alexander O’Brien. |
, City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

, CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn. |
William G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy.
, William Lambert.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). ,
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. )
WARD. WARD.
 —Patrick J. Sullivan. o—KEugene F. Kane.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —James Devine. |
 —Leon W. Bliss.  —Thomas W. Holley.
 —John T. Sheehan. |
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. |
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
 Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn. 
William G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy.
| William Lambert. ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD. ,
 —Patrick J. Sullivan.  —John J. White.
 —Victor  Laplante.  —Herbert Ainley.
|  William: F. Wicks.  —-Robert P. Cunningham.
 —J. Henry Sullivan.
| City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. |
Clerk of Committees—John-C. Doran.

. CITY OFFICERS. :
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY. |
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
| ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS). |
John R. Allan. Ira J. Humes. 
William A. Allyn. Michael J. Kearns.
William J. Cray. James M. Kennedy.
James J. Sullivan. |
| ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). ,
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
; Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Samuel N. Bogart. o—Richard Connor. |
 —Victor  Laplante.  —Herbert E. Ainley.
 —Wilham F. Wicks. (—Robert P. Cunningham.
 —J. Henry Sullivan. |
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan. ;
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran. .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
| President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Herbert E. Ainley. James Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Noonan.
Frederick Childs. Henry J. Soutiere.
Samuel C. Warner. |
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Wilham A. Allyn. Ira J. Humes. |
William J. Cray. Michael J. Kearns. )
John R. Allan* James M. Kennedy.
Thomas H. Finn** James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Dennis O’Leary. ‘o—Richard Connor.
 —F rank Rainault.  —F rank Linnehan. :
 —Wilham F. Wicks. i—Jesse E. Sheldon. |
 —J. Henrv Sullivan.
— City Clerk—John F, Sheehan. |
City Messenger—Williaam T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Resigned February |
** Elected by Board of Aldermen, February .

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Muyor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). |
Herbert E. Ainley. James T. Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Noonan.
Frederick Childs. Henry J. Soutiere.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
. Leon W. Bliss. Israel Ducharme.
George R. Burns. James M. Kennedy.
William J. Cray. John D. Ryan.
, James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
WARD. WARD.
 —Dennis O’Leary. o—Richard Connor.
 —Frank Rainault.  —Leander C. Hartzell.
 —Thomas A. Bray. i—Jesse E. Sheldon. |
 —Jeremiah J. Slattery. |
City Clerk—John EF. Sheehan.
| City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Comimittees—John C. Doran.

Digitized by Google

Sitios by Google

Digitized by Google .

  |
Digitized by Google

Digitized by Google

JUN iui
ee



