MUNICIPAL REGISTER
OF THE
FOR THE YEAR

  |
Containing the Mayor’s Address, 

City Government Roster,

Annual Reports, Etc.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
HOLYOKE, MASS. :
M. J. Dove apa Printine Co.
 

. !

, |

| |
' |

CONTENTS.
OO led
Mayor’s Address, Be  
City Government for we  
Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen, —.  
City Officers, Ce  
Election Officers. Ce  
Report of Fire Commissoners, —. 
Report of City Treasurer, .) ..). ag
Report of Gas and Electric Department, too.  
Report of Police Department, .-.  .. 
Report of Board of Public Works,  ...  
Report of Relief Department,  .. ddl
Report of School Department, ..))  
Report of Board of Health, re? B
Report of Board of Assessors,  ...  .) 
Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures, 
Report of City Solicitor, e- |
Report of Sinking Fund Commissioners,  
Report of City Engineer, ... we DD
Report of Park Commissioners, e+ |
Report Relative to Beautifving the City,  ...)  
Report of City Auditor, Boeee BF
Report of Water Department,  ..))  
City Governments since ...  ..)  
City Ordinances ES
:  

|
f
, |
, |
|
t
|

INAUGURAL ADDRESS |
|. BY...
NATHAN P. AVERY
Mayor of Holyoke, Mass.
ZARIA EDS
CSD
of es eae aie a
 ‘he ae figs ey,  
OLY OK ES,
Dy Ste Oey
Sarin SY :
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND EIGHT.



;

) )

e

,

|

|
I
|

MAYORS ADDRESS. 
e@
Gentlemen of the Board of Aldermen :—
The municipal year just closed has been one of marked
progress.

The several departments have, in the main, been well econducted; the appearance of the city has been improved; its
eredit has continued to be high and in almost every way it
has maintained its enviable position among the municipalties of New England.

FINANCES.

The finaneial condition of Holyoke has been for years
a source of pride to its citizens. In  the net debt of
the city, excluding the water debt, was In  
it was During this period, along with much
other work, the city has constructed three miles of paved
streets, nme and one-half nules macadamized streets; three
new bridges at total cost of has biult eight and
three-fourths miles of sewers and water ways at cost of
$ has constructed three new school houses in addition to the Elmwood school at cost of It has |
also more than doubled the area of ifs park land and performed much other work. ineluding the renewal of certain
school buildings and the construction of city vard. and
vet at the end of the period it has decrease in its debt of
tlmost certainly dost wonderful showing.

The best commentary of the standing of Tolvoke that
recent Vears have produced. is the fact that the city last
vear sold  worth of bonds at rate of four per cent,
a thing which very few municipalities in the eountry were
able to do.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS. ,
GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
The Gas and Electric Department has had its usual sue-’
cessful year. The output of gas has increased twenty per
cent, the output of electricity twenty-eight per cent. The
efficiency of the gas plant has been increased by the addition of much needed duplicate water gas apparatus and
the laying of new mains, that of the station by the installing
of new turbo generator.
Annually the department presents to the city some evtdence of its value. This year it comes in the way of forty.
per cent reduction in the cost of incandescent lighting.
When we consider the difficulties under which the plants
were started, and the record of the department since then,
I think we are safe in saying that Holvoke has made, taking
everything into consideration, the most suecessful experiment in municipal lighting of any city of any size in the
country.
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
During the vear the Board of Publie Works has, in
addition to its regular work, repainted several school houses.
repaired the Park Street School, completed the Morgan
Sehool and begun the remodelling of the Sargeant Street
School. It has resurfaced more sidewalks than in any other vear, laid square vards of paving and constructed
  miles of macadam. Our very fine sewer system has
been still further improved by the Pine Street storm water
sewer system which takes care of the surface water of a
large and thickly populated territory.
A new city vard has been built which would be credit
to any city. Practically new engine house has been made
of the Highland Engine House. In addition to these im- |
provements, the Jackson street underpass has been begun.
making in all one of the best vears the history of the
Board.
In this vear, in my opinion, the permanent street work
should be continued, new sanitames should) be installed) in !
!

MAYUR’S ADDRESS.  
some of the older school buildings and the advisability of
connecting the Walnut Street sewer system with the Front
Street sewer system should be considered.

WATER DEPARTMENT.

It is truism to say that we have splendid water
system. Few cities are better served in this respect. There
are some suggestions, however, which think ought to be
made in connection with the department. |

The fiscal vear of the department should be changed
to correspond with the fiscal year of the city. At the present time the pay rolls and expenditures of the department
do not pass through the office of or require the approval of
the City Auditor. The law ought to be changed so that
this department should be under the control of the City |
Auditor as is every other department of the entire city.

If there is any immediate need of the repair or renewal
of street mains or of construction work near the city, that
work should be undertaken this year when opportunities
for employment will be appreciated. |

SCHOOLS.

In the Department of Schools look forward to good
year. The School Board has in some respects been lax, but
I believe there is determination on the part of the members to reform their methods in some particulars and give
the people what they want, the best possible school system
for the money that is expended.

While this year we may not be able to afford it, in the
near future there should be considered the advisability of
an evening industrial school, where trades and mechanical
and domestic arts can be practically taught.

The school facilities of the city have been much improved during the year. The Sargeant Street School will
be almost as good as new when the repairs on it are finished.

\
  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
The South Chestnut Street School is badly overcrowded
and if this condition cannot be relieved by the Sargeant
Street School new building should be erected in Oakdale.
The greater part of our school buildings have connected
with them fairly ample playgrounds and many of the buildings are adjacent to land which the city is developing for
playground purposes. In my opinion, these playgrounds
should be used and employed by the schools to greater
extent and in more scientific manner than they are at
present. Except in the Kindergarten the importance of the
play instinct in the development of the young has not been
fully appreciated in our educational system.
l
PARKS. |
The Park Board has pursued its policy of improving
our parks, providing playgrounds, and purchasing land for |
park and playground uses.
During the year work has been done on Riverside Park
and on some of the other parks; the Hospital and Ranlet
- tracts have been purchased, which will continue Elmwood
Park along Bh street almost up to Northampton street
and provide fine playground on Bh street near the
High School.
I think we ought to be as liberal with the Park appro- !
priations as is consistent with wise financial policy, and |
that each year money should be provided for the purpose
of purchasing additional land.
POLICE.
As the city grows in wealth and population the de- |
mands on the Police Department increase. |
For city of the size of Holyoke, the force is rather
small, and yet in the main its work has been very satisfactory. The marshal and the other officials perform their
work with taet and ability and the spirit of the department
and of the men was never better.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
BOARD OF HEALTH.
The Board of Health, with the several officials and
offices connected with it, assumes each year greater importance.

The freedom from serious contagion and the comparatively low death rate which the city has for many years
enjoyed is good evidence of the efficiency with which the
work of these officials is performed. An additional duty
imposed by law on the Board is the matter of the medical
inspection of the schools. While this work has not as yet
been thoroughly systematized, it has been begun and will,
I believe, prove of real value and service.

The most pressing need under the head of the department is contagious disease hospital and have already
requested the Board to procure information on this subject.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

The Fire Department has given the city, as it usually
does, the best of service. The efficiency of the department
has been increased by the changes in the Highland Engine
IIouse and by the addition of new apparatus. The cost of
the department is high, but the results seem to justify the
expense, especially in city of mills, where good fire protection is imperatively demanded.

OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.

The work of the Department of the Overseers of the
Poor, with the City Almoner, City Physician and other officers and agents connected with this department, has been,
although extremely difficult, in the main excellently and
I believe honestly performed. At the City Farm new boilers will soon be required.

CITY AUDITOR.

The office of City Auditor continues to be one of the

most important of all our departments, and one of the most

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS.
efficiently conducted. Not only must the Auditor scrutin) ize financial transactions, but he also must act as kind of
information bureau and it is fact which ought to be better
known that any citizen of Holyoke can obtain the details
of any transaction by inquiry at the office of the Auditor.
In other words, the books of the City Auditor are open for
inspection to any one at any and all reasonable times.
CITY ENGINEER.
The engineering work of the city continues to be executed with faithfulness and ability.
At the present time the State law, very unwisely in my
opinion, throws on the department the work of inspecting
elevators. As there are about two hundred elevators in the
eity of one kind or another, it is obvious that the City Engineer himself is unable to attend to the matter. For this
reason, it seems to me that an ordinance should be passed
instructing the Engineer to delegate one of his assistants
to perform this work and at the same time act as inspector
of public buildings.
CITY TREASURER.
The City Treasurer does his work so quietly that the
average person gains little impression of the skill with
which he administers his office. Many people think that
all City Treasurer has to do is to receive and pay out
money and be honest. This is only one part of his duties.
The Treasurer is really the financial agent of the city. Te
sells our bonds, he negotiates our temporary loans, and the
fact that last year onr bonds sold at four per eent and our
temporary loans were made at an average rate of less than q
five per cent, is some evidence of the ability and standing |
of the man who handles the money of the city. |
ASSESSORS. ,
There are few manufacturing cities that have less dis- |
 |

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
pute over assesment values than Holyoke, and this fact
speaks well for the tact and ability of our loeal Board of
Assessors.

CITY CLERK, CITY SOLICITOR AND TAX COLLECTOR.

The work of the City Clerk, City Solieitor and Tax
Collector, all officials with extremely important duties, has |
heen ably performed.

The collection of taxes has been very satisfactory, which
ina time of financial stringency evidences not only the sound business condition of the city, but the energy and ability of
the Tax Collector.

The City Clerk annually calls attention to the need of
a proper vault for the safe keeping of documents and  reeords. believe some provision should be made of this
nature.

The freedom the city enjoys from serious litigation  s
not only cause of congratulation, but is proof of the fidelity with which the City Solicitor attends to the interests of
his department.

SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

The new department of Sealer of Weights and Measures
has believe been the means of saving much money to the
people of Holyoke, and has also been of assistance to honest
merchants and dealers who are always in the majority.

There is one matter which ought to come before the
Board. which perhaps is under the province of no particular
department, and that is the regulation of the advertising
of the city.

At present there is no uniformity of practice or of
charge either among departments or newspapers. Possibly
if the whole subject were left with the City Auditor it
might he solution of the problem. If this, however, should
not seem advisable, then at least some plan should be
adopted.

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS.

Allied to this subject is one which will come before your
Board early in the year, and that is the printing of the
municipal register. Of recent years the cost of printing
the register has increased out of all proportion to its size.
When the contract is let this year, it would seem that the
printing of certain number of separate copies of the reports of the several departments should be provided for,
either at no charge or at minimum cost.

Last year the noted landscape architect, Frederick Law
Olmsted, Jr., made partial examination of the city to
obtain material for preliminary report on its possible development along lines of beauty and utility. The report
although not yet completed is expected at no distant day.

It is hoped that it will be of such nature as to lead
to demand for detailed and elaborated plan which will
be in part guide for the future growth of the city.

Holyoke as municipality is today in most respects

in excellent condition. It should be our aim during the
year to so govern our conduct that not only may such condition be maintained but that the standing and reputation |
of the city at the close of the year shall be even better and
higher than it is even at the present time.
NATHAN P. AVERY, Mayor

Digitized by Google

|
OF THE
MAYOR.
HON. NATHAN P. AVERY.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
JAMES M. KENNEDY.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
LEON W. BLISS, ISRAEL DUCHARME,
GEORGE R. BURNS. JAMES M. KENNEDY,

- WILLIAM J. CRAY, JOHN D. RYAN,
JAMES J. SULLIVAN.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS). |
HERBERT E. AINLEY, WILLIAM G. CANTIN,
GEORGE BARNETT, FREDERICK CHILDS,

THOMAS EK. BEGLEY, JAMES T. DEVINE,
SAMUEL C. WARNER.
|

CITY GOVERNMENT  
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward  —THOMAS H. FINN.
Ward  —ALFRED F. COUSINEAU.
Ward  —TIIOMAS A. BRAY.
Ward  —JEREMIAH J. SLATTERY.
Ward  —JOHN J. WHITE.
Ward  —ALLAN J. MALCOLM.
Ward  —PIIILIP M. JUDD.
| CITY CLERK.
JOHN F. SHEEHAN.
CITY MESSENGER. ,
WILLIAM T. WALSIIL. |
CLERK OF COMMITTEES.
JOHN C. DORAN.

OF THE

Finance.— Aldermen Bray, Warner, Sullivan.

Ordinances.— Aldermen White, Ducharme, Bray, Slattery, Ryan.

Claims.— Aldermen Warner, Ainley, Finn, Devine.
Burns.

Street Franchises.—Aldermen Devine, Finn, Slattery,
Childs, Ainley.

Rules.—Aldermen Burns, Maleoln. Begley. Cantin,
Cousinean,

Licenses.— Aldermen Cray. Ryan, Burns. Cousineeu,
White.

Municipal Lighting.— Aldermen Ainley, Begley, Malcolm, Barnett. Cray.

State and Military Aid and Soldiers’ Relief.— Aldermen
Slattery. Sullivan, Begley. Barnett. Bliss.

Education.— Aldermen Dueharme. Childs. Judd. Stull
Van. Cray.

Enrollment.— Aldermen Finn, Ryan. Cray. Barnett.
Bliss.

River Navigation, Trades and Industries.— Aldermen
Rvan. Maleolm. Childs. Cantin, Judd.

)
&
|
CITY OFFICERS.
CITY TREASURER.
Pierre Bonvouloir, Office, Room ,City Hall
Eleeted at Municipal Eleetion.
CITY AUDITOR.
Daniel W. Kenney, Office, Room  City Tall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen. ..
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUT-DOOR WORK.
Henry Winkler, Office, Room  City Hall
Appointed annually by the Board of Publie Works.
CITY ENGINEER.
James L. Tighe, Oftice, City Hall
Appointed every three years by the Mayor.
|
CITY SOLICITOR.
Michael J. Griffin. Oftice, Thgh Street.
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
CITY PHYSICIAN.
Patrick E. Hurley, M.D. Office, Suffolk Street
Eleeted annually by the Board of Aldermen.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT... .
Wilham IT. Snow,
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
|
I
|


  CITY OFFICERS
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires  
William A. Chase, Term expires  
Gilbert Potvin, Jr., Term expires  
James L. Tighe, Clerk. Oscar C. Ferry, Ass’t Clerk.
Members of Board appointed by the Mayor.
ASSESSORS OF TAXES
Joseph St. Martin, Chairman, Term expires  
Joseph J. Kelly, Secretary, Term expires  
Jeremiah J. Keane, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
COLLECTOR OF TAXES.

Thomas F. McCabe, Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three vears by the Board of Aldermen.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Fred Hl. Gilpatrick.

Appointed by the Mayor.

OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.

Robert D. Moore, Term expires  
Patrick J. Dowd, Term expires  
William Dillon, Term expires  
James To Cunningham. Almoner,

Elected by the Board of Aldermen,

BOARD OF HEALTH.

Arthur B. Wetherell, APE. D. Frank A. Woods, M.D.
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer.

Appointed by the Mayor.

CITY OFFICERS  
INSPECTOR OF PROVISIONS.
George L. Goodyear.
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen.
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
George L. Goodyear.
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen.
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. CO.

Robert P. Cunningham, Thomas Norris,
Fred A. Monat, Matthew B. Begley, Richard Connor.
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

' SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
Joseph D. Goddu.
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Charles EK. Mackintosh, Chairman, Term expires May 
James F. Burns, Term expires May 
Max Otto Dreikorn, Term expires May ]
Samuel Grandchamp, Term expires May 
William J. Howes, Term expires May 
Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Aldermen.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.
Charles U. Roy, Term expires May 
Thomas Stansfield, Chairman, Term expires May 
James J. Dunn, Term expires May 
Appointed by Mayor and confirmed by Board of Aldermen.
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.

  CITV OFFICERS
COMMISSIONERS OF WHITING STREET FUND.

Hon. Nathan P. Avery, Mayor, ex-ofticio.

Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-officio.

Mrs. John J. Prew, Term expires March 

Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term expires Mareh 

Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term expires Mareh 

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
|
WATER COMMISSIONERS. |

Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman, Term expires  

Michael J. Doyle, Treasurer, Term expires  

Hugh MeLean, Secretary, Term expires  

Eleeted by the Board of Aldermen.
WATER REGISTRAR.

Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room  s, City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

John J. Kirkpatrick, Oftice, Commercial Street
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners,
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.
John Castle.
| Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.

COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds.)

C. Favette Snuth, Term expires  

Lemuel Sears, Term expires  

Samuel MeQuaid, Term expires  

Eleeted by the Board of Aldermen. .

CITY OFFICERS  
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
Marshal, Thomas J. Lynch
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
Assistant Marshal, Patrick Herbert
Captain, Timothy Haley
Lieutenant, Patrick E. Sullivan
I
SERGEANTS OF POLICE.
Dennis Mack, William E. Blackmer,
| George L. Dickinson, John J. Moriarty.
PATROLMEN.
Michael Shine, Michael J. Lynch,
Richard Peters, Frank M. Priest,
Thomas F. Riley, Patrick F. Ryan,
Henry J. Campbell, James T. Donoghue,
Frank J. Gallagher, Rock If. Lalonde,
Francis M. Hastings, Maurice M. O’Connor,
John A. Powers, Thomas Bresnahan,
John A. Geran, Maurice II. Shine, .
Cornelius Curran, Matthew MeClellan,
Peter A. Cullen, Daniel MeCarthy,
James B. Griffin, Frank R. Metealt,
Jeremiah J. Linnehan, Richard E. Loweocek,
Walter J. Murray, William Carey,
James E. Maleolm, Michael Driseoll,
Patrick J. Reardon, Peter J. Manning,
John Leary, Patrick J. Kennedy,
John W. Vaugh, Edward F. Gilday,
John A. Vachon, Patrick J. Driscoll,
Henry M. Fisher Thomas J. Rourke,
 Albert Mew, Patrick J. Gaughan,
Maxwell McDowell, Andre J. Seney,
James T. Welch, John J. O’ Donnell,
Henry Sussenguth, Jr., Jahn J. Grady.
Michael J. Clifford, Mederie H. Beloin,
Michael P. Connery, John IT. Goss.
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.


  CITY OFFICERS
SPECIAL POLICEMEN. ]
Otto Egar, Main street.
Patrick J. Meaney, Elm street.
Edward M. Clancy, Walnut street.
James J. Fitzgerald, Worcester place.
Paul C. Egar, Park street.
Frank J. Sullivan, Clinton avenue.
Conrad Anderson, Whiting Farm.
Felix McCarthy, Whiting avenue.
Thomas W. Doyle. Hampden street.
Patrick J. Griffin, High street.
Edward Cadieux, Brown avenue.
John F. O’Connor, Bond street.
John Schmidt, So. Bridge street.
Arthur P. McGuire, High street.
Robert J. Smith, Pine street.
John D. Hlardy, Brown avenue.
Patrick F. Sullivan, Gates street.
James J. Sullivan, Park street.
Timothy J. Mannix. Bowers street.
Charles A. Fisher, Hampshire street.
Patrick J. Conway,  Elm street.
Thomas M. Seanlon, North East street.
John F. Richardson, Northampton street.
Charles R. Evans. Grover street.
Daniel W. Young, Linden street.
Philip Griffin, Pine street.
John C. Doran, Fountain street.
Henry Lempke, Jackson street.
Joseph Chezek, High street.
Patrick Fitzgerald, Bh street.
John Hf. Bell, Cottage avenue.
Auburn P. Capen, Linden street.
Horace A. Lunn, Taylor street.

|
CITV UFFICERS  

Jeremiah J. Linnehan, Dwight street.
George Young, Oak street.
George S. Little, Elm street.
Frank .Avery, Dwight street.
Theophile Lamagdelain, Summer street.
Charles H. Goodrich, Grover street.
Joseph Beaudin, Hampden street.
Gilbert Potvin, Maple street.
John B. Potvin, East Dwight street.
William F. Salsbury, Brown avenue.
Thomas St. Peter.
Alexander Maher  Northampton street.
Frank Vogel, Martin street.
Authony Doucette, Dwight street.
Edward Stratton, Dwight street.
Frederick G. Bartlett, Cabot street. :
James Thompson, Taylor street.
Joseph Duhaime, Canal street. .
Clarence E. Provost, James street.
Michael Kerin, Lyman street.
Leopold Sabourin, East street,

* Franz E. Klopfer, Jackson street.
Jonas A. Watts, Elm street.
John MeCombs, Dwight street,
Ehi I. Broekett, Beacon avenue.
John S. O'Neill, Sargeant street.
Bert A. Chadbourne, Brown avenue.
John Beauchemin, Commercial street.
Charles  Roberts, Sargeant street. :
Patrick Geran, Pine street.
John Kennedy, Lyman street.
William Bresnahan, Front street.

| Thomas Shea, Elm street.

James Hennessey, Pine street.
Francis J. Linnehan, Sonoma place.
Moses Gregore, Front street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Martin Finn, North East street.
Peter J. Lappin, East street.
John B. Sullivan, Elm street.
Stanley A. Arent, Park street.
Timothy Maloney, John street, Willimansett.
| Carl F. Geissler, Park street.
Albro M. Rieker, Pleasant street.
Henry B. Spencer, Dwight street.
Omer Lapointe, Canal street.
Joseph N. Landry, Chestnut street.
Edmund Dupuis, Jackson street.
Napoleon B. Emery.
David O’Keefe, B. M. depot.
Harlon C. Ashley, Cherry street.
Edward O’Connell, Mosher street.
Jerry Codairre, Main street. .
William F. Driscoll, Newton street.
Edgar A. Spooner, Highland Terrace.
James J. Sullivan, Park street.
Daniel S. Cronin, Samosett street.
Charles L. Schoenfeldt, West Holvoke.
Hugo Zenner, Rock Valley.
George Hoffmeyer, Rock Valley.
Joseph L. Rigali, High street.
William Mossman, B. M. Railroad.
Fred  S. Webber, Hampden street.
William B. Rogers, Dwight street.
W. A. Baldwin, High street.
Thomas J. Slavin, South street.
Andrew Jodoin, Bridge street.
William J. MeLaughlin, Main street.
John Reilly, Hampshire street.
Joseph Lescault, High street. |
Carl Bock, Elliott street.
John Davitt, South Bridge street. .
Joseph D. Goddu, Prospect street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Melvin N. Snow, Allyn street.
John Bunyan, Cabot street.
George M. Miller, Hampshire street.
Louis Therrien, Main street.
George A. Lueas, Race street.
Martin Fitzgerald. Lyman street.
Thomas Skilling, Newton street.
Elzear Robert, East street.
Alexander S. Miller, Sveamore street.
Frank McQuillan, Ely street.
James H. Hyde, Commercial street.
Patrick F. Dowd, Bowers street.
Tulio Gottardy, High street.
Charles H. Smith, Dwight sereet.
Harvey Robinson, West Ilampden street.
Mark Wallington, Pearl street.
George W. Rackliffe, Hitchcock street.
Harry M. Leonard, Newton place.
Napoleon Duval. Bond street.
David A. Raymond. Newton place.
Joseph Carrivon, Center street.
Alphonse Duclos, Commereial street.
Frank J. Meehan, Ely street.
Elisha N. Brigham, Brown avenue.
William E. West, Glen street.
George F. Hills, West street.
Dennis Pepin, Park street.
' Michael Healey, Easthampton road.
Romeo R. Turconi, Maple street.
Amedee D. Turcotte, Main street.
Arthur B. Parker, Newton street.
Thomas E. Gallagher, cor. Dwight and Linden streets.
John J. Daley, Bond street.
Patrick O’Connor, Bridge street, So. Hadley Falls.
Thomas F. Buckley, So. Main street, So. Hadley Falls.
Fred S. Williams, Tlampden street.
Henry W. Williams, Hampden street.
Jeremiah J. Murphy, Sargeant street.


  CITY OFFICERS )
John J. O’Connor, Ingleside.
Joseph W. Eaton, Hampden street.
Dennis Lareau, Lyman street.
Henry D. Packard, Main street.
Louis B. Laroche, So. East street.
Charles Grandchamp, Commercial street.
Philias J. Tetreault, So. Bridge street. ,
Henry Godin, So. Canal street.
Frank W. Redfern, Race street.
Patrick J. Manning, North East street.
Patrick J. Maley, Walnut street.
Nelson W. Rogers, Pleasant street.
Gilbert Beaupre, Crescent street.
Charles Ward. Oak street.
John W. MeDonald, East street .
William L. Abar, Main street.
Albert Usehmann, Main street.
Patrick J. Dempsey, Dwight street.
Pierre Coulombe, Tfamilton street.
Thomas J. Kelley. Rock Valley.
Michael W. Ginley, Dwight street.
John C. Hanley, Pine street.
Joseph Garrant, Hampden street.
James Hl. Leach, Mt. St. Vineent.
Levi S. Whiteomb, Elm street.
Martin J. Rohan, Walnut street.
Arthur P. Hurlburt, Park street.
Henry Bouthiller, High street.
Emil B. Ezold, Vernon street.
Joseph H. Saulmier, Chicopee street. Willimansett. \
Irving Teahan, Lyman street.
Frederick A. Wheeler, South street. |
Thomas Dean, Elin street.
William MeNaught. Sargeant street.
Gustav Miller, Grant strect.
Adelard Lafontaine, Hamilton street.
Godfrey Lachapelle.  East street.

|
| |
i
|
: CITY OFFICERS  
Timothy Falvey, Pine street.
Patrick J. Fitzgerald, Lyman street.
Michael Foley, North Summer street.
Michael J. Baker, Bh street.
John Kiely, Bond street.
Alfred D. Durocher, Jr.. Main strect.
Frederick N. Sears, Elm street.
Emerson C. Coe, Carlton street.
John F. Smith, Canal street.
Ira I. Dobbs, Pleasant street.
Patrick Clifford, Center street.
Charles Gaffney, Grover street.
Joseph Meehan, Sargeant street.
James Henderson, Chestnut street.
Felix Tokarski, Union street.
CONSTABLES.
Valentine J. O’Donnell. Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Tllside avenue.
Ernest R. Laduke, Coit: street.
Leon W. Bliss. Westfield street.
Salime J. Benoit. Walnut street.
Fred Laduke, Coit street.
John Schmidt. South Bridyve street. —
J. Sidney Wright. Taylor street.
WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.
Wilham AM. Hart, Newton street.
Leonard Mahan, Cabot street.
John Moore, Shawmut avenue.
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK
AND STONE.
E. A. Ellsworth, Essex street. |
. M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Timothy J. MeCarthy. Waldo street.
W. J. Howes, Taylor street.
A. F. Sickman, Lineoln street.
J. M. Sickman, Oak street. ,
J. J. Keane, Linden street.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Beacon avenue.
M. N. Snow, Allvn street.
Wallace E. Sawin, Tavlor street.
MEASURER OF GRAIN AND MEAL.
William R. Ross, Taylor street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
James. K. Morrill.
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
James K. Morrill.
. FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O’Connell, Hampden street.
Almon A. Jones, Ilampden street.
Newton F. Holmes, Maple street.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Eln street.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Michael Shine, Nonotuck street.
Richard Peters, Pearl street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
Henry J. Campbell. Ely street.
John A. Davis, Hampden street.

a
|
CITY OFFICERS  
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
Herbert H. Fiske, Appleton street.
T. L. Curran, Main street.
F. A. Whiting, Main street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street. .
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
C. R. Evans, Grover street.
Homer P. Fiske, Appleton street. ;
William  S. Thorpe. Lincoln street.
George I. Sackett, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless. Main street.
E. R. Crafts, Northampton street. :
G. H. Lynds, Harrison avenue.
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
Edward A. Best, Brown avenue.
John Griffin.
William S. Bhing. Washington avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
John J. Kenney, Walnut street. |
Patrick Murphy, Elm street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Cabot street. |
Louis Bibeau,  Race street. |
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
Hosea B. Fuller, Pleasant strect. |
Michael F. Maloney, Bridge street. ,
Michael F. Shea, Davis street.
William Bresnahan, Front street.
B. E. Sullivan, Parker street.
George A. Lawrence, Park street.
Thomas Shea, Elm street.
Francis J. Linnehan, Sonoma place.
Joseph Laframboise, Prew Co., Willimansett, Mass.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Prew Co., Willimansett, Mass.
Hilarion Duhamel, Main street.
John Kennedy, Lyman street.
Bete

  CILY OFFICERS
James Hennessey, Pine street.
William T. Wilson, Northampton street. ,
Alfred Frechette, Main street. 
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.
T. L. Curran, Main street.

" E.R. Crafts, Northampton street.
R. T. Prentiss, Taylor street. ,
Margaret Lawless, Main street.
Daniel O’Connell, Jr., Hampden street.
W. S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
C. H. Richards, Oak street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
C. B. Davis, Elim street.
F. A. Whiting, Main street.
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
Homer P. Fiske, Appleton street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, So. Iladley Falls. ,
M. E. Fitzgerald, So. Hadley Falls.
Edward A. Best, Brown avenue.
John Kenney, Pine street.
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
. WEIGHERS OF BEEF, PORK, MUTTON AND HIDES.

W. O. Judd, Chestnut street. |
F. C. Steele, South street.

CITY OFFICERS  
SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.
S. M. Knowles, Cottage avenue.
Casper Ranger, Appleton street. .
Joseph S. Merrick, Walnut street.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
F. W. Ely, Locust street.
A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Lewis Warner, Pearl street.
Patrick Walsh, Dwight street.
POUND KEEPER. |
Joseph Lescault, High street. |
BURIAL AGENT. |
Harry Crosby, High street.
|

WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Patrick Gear.
Deputy Warden—Henry Fitzgibbon.
Clerk—Charles I]. Goodrich.
Deputy Clerk—Rodolphe Baillargeon,
Inspectors—Cornelius F. Crowley, James Clark, Ernest
Provost, Clark E. Belding.
Deputy Inspectors—Jeremiah Mannix, Albert Langlois, .
Michael H. Fitzgerald, William M. Perry.
WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—John H. Ryan. ‘
Deputy Warden—Michael M. Murphy.
Clerk—Wilbur A. Robinson.
Deputy Clerk—John Irvin.
Inspectors—WilhiamViens, Henry Frappier, Thomas J.
Maroney, Francis J. Meehan.
Deputy Inspectors—John F, Kennedy, Thomas J. Murray, Ulric Montealm, Frank F. Lipps.
WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Odilon Moreau.
Deputy Warden—Louis A. Turgeon.
Clerk—Fred A. Monat.
Deputy Clerk—Romuald O. Lamagdelaine.
Inspectors—Rodolphe A. Coderre, Fred T. Vigneaux,
Charles J. Perry, Hilaire Jacques, Jr.
Deputy Inspectors—Joseph E. Lapointe, Octave Bergeron, Walter W. Larivee, Philias J. Godda.

ELECTIUN OFFICERS  
| WARD TWO—PRECINCT B. )
Warden—Edward J. Whalen.
Deputy Warden—Dennis Flealey.
Clerk—Joseph B. Fontaine.
Deputy Clerk—Edward Bourbeau.
! Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Jr., John L. Fournier,
Edward D. Welch, Max Weisbach.
Deputy Inspeetors—John C. Colton, Elzeard Robert,
Dennis Kelliher, Felix Brodeur.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Isadore W. Davis.
Deputy Warden—Fred Leining. |
| Clerk—Thomas E. Begley.
Deputy Clerk—Bartholomew Donoghue, Jr. ,
Inspectors—George E, A. Clarenbach, George Barnett, .
Jr, Michael Corridan, Edward Hart. }
Deputy Inspectors—John Thomson, George H. LeDoyt, }
August H. Baush, James Murray  Chapin Street.). :
|
WARD THREE—PRECINCT B. |
Warden—Paul HT. Koehler. ,
Deputy Warden—August Boie.
Clerk—John F. Lowcock.
Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin.
Inspectors—Henry Sussenguth, Jr., Ernest Satler, John
F. Higgins, John Cronin.
Deputy Inspectors—Karl JT. Neumann, Edward Henault, John Schmidt, Herman Wagenknecht.
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.
Warden—John J. Byrnes.
Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Begley.
Clerk—Joseph D. Goddu.
Deputy Clerk—Alexander P. Barre.
na

 ELECTION OFFICERS
Inspectors—Frank Lamay, Wilham J. Dillon, Joseph
Masse, Hormisdas Thomas.
Deputy Inspectors—Thomas C. Dufresne, Urban Fleming, Elzear F. Vautrain, James Long.
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.
Warden—James J. Driscoll. —
Deputy Warden—William J. O’Connor.
Clerk—John R. MeNally. ,
Deputy Clerk—Joseph K. Menard.
Inspectors—Michael Kerin, Levi Russell, David A. Hendrix, Joseph J. McCarthy.
Deputy Inspeetors—Joseph Archambault, Michael J.
Grady, Joseph Daudelin, Patrick Shea.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—James H. O’Connell.
Deputy Warden—Edward J. Kenney.
Clerk—Ira J. Humes.
Deputy Clerk—Edward C. Purrington.
Inspeetors—Richard S. Burns, Daniel F. O’Connell,
Henry B. Spencer, G. Herbert Foster.
Deputy Inspectors—John J. O’Connor, Joseph N. Prew,
Joseph A. Hinehcliffe, Patrick Green.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—FElliot D. Shaw.
Deputy Warden—-Frederick lL. Bardwell.
Clerk—Frank O’Connor. :
Deputy Clerk—Michael P. Hifle.
Inspectors—John L. Connor, White P. Bidwell, Thomas
J. Hart, Burlin M. Poole.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick W. Fitzgerald, George E.
Johnson, Michael J. Kingsley, Charles  Murlless.

ELECTION OFFICERS  
WARD SIXN—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Fred N. Ricker.
Deputy Warden—Charles E. Watson.  
Clerk—Lawrence F. Dowd.
Deputy Clerk—Kdward L. Cassidy.
Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles MeCauley,
James Devine, William R. Shumway.
Deputy Inspeetors—Newton F. Holmes,- Thomas O’Connor, George P. Gagnon, Andrew Nye.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT B.
Warden-—Henry J. Bogue.
Deputy Warden—Peter Freeman, Jr. )
Clerk—Frederick Shearer.
Deputy Clerk—Albion F. Ttcehcock.
Inspectors—Edward Cramer, Wilbur .Stedman, Michael
F. Danehy, Edmund J. Lee.
Deputy Inspectors—James T. Barry, Wilham G. Beaudro, James Gray  Cabot street), Patrick Cavanaugh.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Wilhis D. Ballard.
Deputy Warden—George W. Doane.
Clerk—Thomas O'Keefe.
Deputy Clerk—Bernard F. Bigelow.
[nspectors—Linus D. Crafts, Frank L. Buek, William
S. Thorpe, Arthur R. Root.
Deputy Inspeetors—Raymond P. Allen, Herbert C. Kegan, William R.  Chase, William Il. Delaney.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.
Warden— Walter F. Batchelder.
Deputy Warden—John M. James.

  ELECTION OFFICERS

Clerk—John W. Scolley. |

Deputy Clerk—Michael W. Scolley.

Inspectors—Earl J. Cain, Edwin B. Evans, William
O’Connell, John II .Delaney.

Deputy Inspectors—Thomas E. Sullivan, Richard P.
Stapleton, Levi BE. Fay, J. Harold Ely.

REPORT OF
FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
OFFICE OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS,
HoLyoKE, Mass., DEc. .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN: Your Board of Fire Commissioners present to you their report for the vear ending December  ,
 ,

The Board met January and orgamized by the
election of Charles L. Neweomb as Chairman, George JJ.
Prew as Vice-Chairman and John Pildreth as Secretary.

The past vear started most inauspiciously, for on the
seventh day of December we had the worst fire to contend
with that we have had for long time. namely, the Me Auslan Wakelin fire. It started in the basement of the store
occupied by Fay Shumway and evidently when discovered
had been burning for some time; the location of the fire
made it impossible for the firemen to get at the heart of the
fire. The stvle of construction of the building was such
that it was impossible to prevent the flames from creeping
up the partitions and so breaking out in the top story, although there was no fire in the seeond and third) stories.
The aerial truck with the Neweomb nozzle attached undoubtedly saved this building from destruction as it sent
through the top story windows solid stream of water and
we were able to keep this stream at work all the time even
if the apparatus was coated with ice.

j

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Our department never did better and more effective
work than at this fire; they demonstrated their ability to
successfully cope with large fire. The day was bitterly
eold, and your Commissioners who were personally present
at the scene of the fire did all they could to protect the men
from any bad effects from the inclement weather by furnishing them with hot coffee and food.
The Springfield, Northampton. Greenfield) and South
Hadley Falls fire departments rendered very efficient help.
which we gratefully acknowledge. Sueh acts of neighborly
kindness help to make life worth more to us all. This fire
resulted in loss of and as the total loss for
  fires and alarms was it will be seen that the !
total loss on the other fires and alarms was only and any citizen who will take the trouble to examine
the list of fires for the past vear will agree that the record
made by our fire department will not suffer by comparison ,
with previous vears. The net loss above insurance this vear
is larger than for many years because some of our merchants
did not have sufficient msurance to cover the extra stock |
that they carry at Christmas time, and so fires that hap- |
pened about that time resulted in considerable loss to the |
insured, namely,  above insurance paid, but when
 we consider that the value of the property directly endangered by fire. this vear amounted to nearly eight millions of
dollars, upon which there was nearly five millions of dollars |
of insurance, we congratulate our citizens that the losses |
were as small as they were. !
Our city continues to grow rapidly, especially in’ Ward
Six which is being filled by large apartment blocks. Fires
In any buildings require prompt attention but especially is
this true in apartment blocks crowded as they are with
human beings. few minutes delay in getting to fire
- may result in the loss of some precious human life. We
take this occasion to thank the pubhe in general and the
Street Railway Company in particular for the splendid way

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  

in Which they have responded to our appeal for their cooperation in keeping the streets clear as soon as an alarm

| of fire is rung. And we again make this same request and
| trust that everybody will assist us in this matter.

The addition to the Highland Engine House will make
this house really good Engine House. We have asked for
this improvement for many vears and we take pleasure in
thanking vou for removing the dangerous conditions that
prevailed at this house.

We regret to report that four persons lost their lives

; in our city the past vear from accidents by fire, namely, .

Jan. Janet Irving; Feb.  Mrs. Bridget Farrell; Feb. Ann Garvan; Oct. Louis J.
Fountain.

These persons lost their lives by reason of some accident
to kerosene oil and it only emphasizes over again the repeated warnings of your Commissioners regarding the use
of this dangerous fluid.

We take pleasure in publicly commending both the offieers and men in the Fire Department for their faithful, steady
and reliable work during the past years, and we are glad
the generosity of the Mayor and City Council has made it

| possible for your Commissioners to show their appreciation
of the good work done by the Department by giving them
an increase in their pay. The revised salary list-is as follows:

Pay of members first year............ 

| Pay of members second year........  

| Pay of members third year..........  

Pay of members fourth year..........  

Pay of members fifth vear...........  

| Captains are paid  per year extra and Lieutenants  extra.

! We have purchased two new exercise wagons and also

, anew combination hose and chemical wagon. This has been

| Placed at House No. where piece of apparatus like this

|

|

ATT

  REPOR! OE FIRE COMMISSIONERS

has long been needed as this house is located right in the
heart of crowded tenement district and we are sure that
time will prove the wisdom of your Commissioners in purchasing this very fine modern mece of apparatus.

The improvements we have mentioned have cost money
but we believe the money has been wisely spent.

We thank vour Honorable Mayor and Board of Aldermen for your generous appropriations which have made it
possible for your Commissioners to carry out the improvements in the Department which they have made. and we :

- trust vou will appropriate sufficient money to enable us to
continue to keep our Department. up to high state of
efficiency... We make the following recommendations. Some
of them are becoming stereotyped, but the necessity still
remains and at the risk of becoming tiresome we must repeat them.

First. The location of Engine House No. on High
street continues to be as bad as ever; indeed, it grows worse.
This street  so crowded that in the evening many pedestrians have to use the street as the sidewalks are so crowded
there is no room to pass and to drive the heavy fire apparatus along this street dodging street cars and pedestrians
is dangerous business, and we have had many narrow eseapes from serious accidents. It is not necessary for us to
rehearse the arguments for new house for headquarters ;
they are well known to vou, and we do most urgently request that vou give this matter vour careful attention.

Second. We again recommend that new boiler be
put on Engine No. and also on spare engine, so that these
engines may be used as spare engines and also to be used to
pump out cellars when they are flooded, as we do not think
it wise to use our regular engines for this purpose.

Third. We recommend that Engine No be refitted
with new pumps and engine; it has been in use Vears.

Fourth. We again recommend that House No.  be
sold and modern Engine House be erected in its place
somewhere near the center of the Ward.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  

Fitth. We recommend that the Board of Water Commissioners continue their good work in putting in new and
large hydrants, particularly in the outlying districts and
we recommend that the new hydrants be equipped with the
Hercules Independent Gate, and we desire here to express
our appreciation of the liberality of the Board of Water
Comminissioners mn these matters.

Sixth. We recommend tke purchase of trolley car
for use on the Street Railway for the purpose of conveying.
fire engines from one city to another, and we believe that
if we are to keep in the front rank as fire fighters, we must
purchase for our flying squadron first class horseless vehicle.. There are many arguments in favor of purchasing
such vehicle; one is that when it arrives ata fire the driver
can leave it and work at the fire instead of having to care
for his horses; then again horses are expensive, it costs lot
of money each vear to maimtain them and every vear we
have to purchase new horses. We have had to purchase
two this vear, so we think it would be wise to take this
matter up at an early date.

Seventh. We again recommend the putting of the
wires of the Fire Alarm system underground.’ The necessity
for this grows with each vear. We have set forth the reasons for this change more fully under the head of Fire
Alarm Telegraph and make this mention of it to emphasize
this matter more thoroughly.

Riechth. We again recommend that first class tencircuit repeater be put in the Fire Alarm Department. We
have outgrown the present repeater Vears ago and it is very
unwise to continue its use much longer.

Ninth. We recommend that there be purchased for
the use of the Chief of our Fire Department horseless
vehicle. These are now being used successfully and extensively by the Fire Department Chiefs ino various cities,

We desire to express to the officers and men of the
Militia Company D. our high appreciation of the valuable

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS

services they rendered us on the oecasion of the MecAuslan
& Wakelin fire. It was very gratifying to us to find that
in few moments after the signal was given almost the
entire Company responded and did splendid work in keeping the streets clear so that the firemen could work without
interruption, thus aiding us very materially in our efforts
to subdue the fire. The work of the Militia on this oceasion
was highly commendable and received the approbation of
the citizens in general. :

FINANCE.

The following is statement of the receipts and expenditures in the Fire Department for the year ending December :
Total appropriations and transfers.......... 
Appropriation for new engine...........  
Receipts from sale of horses and old) apparALUN  ee     

Total receipts ...  ...       ) PIODBS ABE

EXPENDITURES.
For salarieS oc... e  
For call engineers and stokers.............  
For auxiliary oo... cc         ees  
Repairs. new apparatus, supphes and continwont account  ...      

Total expenditures ............ --. RIOO  
Appropriation for new engine not expended,  

Total coo          ee  

| REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
: SALARIES PAID IN THE DEPARTMENT.
| Chief engineer, per vear...i...........  |
Superintendent. of fire alarin telegraph, per vear  
| Lineman, pear vear....... ce          
Secretary of Commission, per Vear.......... |
Veterinary, per Vear. oc.     ees  
First assistant engineer, per vear..............  
Second assistant engineer, per year............  
! Two permanent engineers of steamers.per vear,
oT cc  
Captains .per year...         
Lieutenants, per vear oo... cc        
Drivers and permanent men, per year..........  
| Four call engineers of steamers, per vear......  
; Five stokers of steainers, per vear..........  
; Permanent men in the department, first vear...  
Permanent men in the department, second vear  
] Permanent men in the department, third vear..  |
| Permanent men in the department, fourth vear.  
Permanent men in the department, fifth vear...  
FIRES AND ALARMS.
The number of fires and alarms during the past year
| was  of which were rung in from signal boxes,  
still alarms, and there were  fires where no alarm was
! given. and by thermostat. :
| There were three false alarms. The following is a
statement of the valuation of the property endangered by i
fire and the insurance on said property, together with the F
amount of the losses by fire and the amount paid by insur- d
ance Companies, viz.:
Buildings  ... .. c    ees  
Contents ....  ...   eens  
Total .....         

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
  -Insuranee on buildings.............. ..  
Insurance on contents. ....    
Total oo...       BA  
Damage to buildings..........   
Damage to contents. .............  
Total co.cc. ce     
Insurance paid on biildings............ 
Insurance paid on contents............  .H 
Total  . cc ens 
Total damage wo... e   
Total insuraneve paid .....    ee    
Total net loss on fires and alarms. 
The average loss per fire above imsiranee was  
The causes of the different fires and alarms are classified as follows, viz. :

Kerosene lamp exploded... ........  ...        
Spontaneous Combustion oo... ce   es  
Desk eaught from @as Jet... ..  ]
Set Dv DOVS.ce        
Soot on fire im chimney... .. ce   ees  
Careless use of matches. ...  ...  eens  
Defective chimney  ...   eens )
Caueht from gas stove... cc. c   ]
Set by tramps... ..      eens  
Careless use of lighted torch. ....  ...       ]
Overheated furnace pipers...  ee eens S
Overheated bearing  ...  ee  ]
Fire started in smoke house...  ... e]
Set from cigar stub...  ... ce      a
Cigar stub set awning on fires... ....   

"REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Cigar stub set hatchway on fire.............. ]
Gas jet set curtain on fire ...  ...     )
Rats and matches.........     eens  
Thawing out water pipes........ ..         
Tlot ashes oo... cc     eens  
Gasolene stove exploded... ....  ... ee    
Struck by lightning....  ...  ...    
Overturned lamp .....  ...      eens  
Filling lighted gasulene stove......  ... ..   
Oil stove put in hen house.........c ]
Thermostat set off by heat of boiler...............  
Match set couch on fire... ... ees ]
False alarms  ...  ...     enes  
Match dropped in clothes closet... ............ 
Draperies caught from match........ ...... 
Children and matches.....  ...        
Gras set window decorations on fire.......... ... ..  
Boys smoking  ...      cent   eens ]
Gasolene caught fire... ..  ...   
Overheated stack  ...       ]
Match dropped in oakum........... ce   eens  
Tar kettle boiled over...  ... cc   
Caught from stove... ..  ee tee ]
Piazza caught fire from burning leaves............. ]
Sparks from loecomotive...........         
Overheated stove pip@......  ...      eens ]
Pipe in coat pocket...  ...     
Oil stove exploded. .........    eens  
Leaky gas plpe.......     eens ]
Woman’s clothing caught from stove..............  
Overturned stov@  ...     neces  
Incendiary ..... cc cc       eens  
Metal polish caught from stove.........  .e . ]
Oil heater overturned. ......         
Fire started in dry room..........        ]
Metal in rags... .. keeetees  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONEXS
Explosion of turpentine...........      
Pot of chocolate boiled over................... ]
Hanging lamp dropped..................   
Back draft in chimney..............  ... cc   
Transformer burned ..............          ]
Overturned chareoal iron.....  ...      
Match set bed clothes on fire............... .......  
Hot coal Jumped out of boiler............... .....  
Fire started in cloth carbonizer...... ......... .- ]
Hot coal jumped from stove and set floor on fire. ... l
Match in man’s pocket....... .. .. ... ce      
Pan of grease caught on fire.................. ]
Man smoking in cellar... ..  ...          
Fire started in peanut roaster....................  
(das stove exploded... ...  cc   ees ]
Incubator exploded  ...  ...   ees ]
Skyrocket went through window.................. ]
Metal in picker...  ...       eens  
Curtain eaught from lamp............. ]
Fireworks set roof on fire...  ... ce ees  
Overheated stove oo... cc     ce   eens  
Unknown oo.  ...  ce      eens ]
Total oo.   cc   t eens  
The number of fires and alarms during each month in
the vear has been as follows, viz.: |
December,  ... cc    eens  
January, TIT       tenes  
February, SF         teen tees  
March, SO cence       gee een enes  
April, TF ec      een    
May.          ne  
June,           nens  
July, CN   cc         eens  
August, Cece    teen teenie nes  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  

September,  vo...         enes  

October,              nas  

November,  wo.        ee   

Total co.cc           ZH
MANUAL FORCE.

We now have in the Department the following officers
and men, viz.: Chief, two assistant engineers, superintendent of fire alarm telegraph and one lineman, eleven eaptains
(one assistant also acts as captain), nine heutennts. two
permanent engineers, twenty drivers, twenty-eight permanent hose and ladder men, two substitutes and one night
Watchman. We also have four call engineers and five
stokers, making total force of eighty-seven men. This,
together with forty members of the auxihary force, makes
a total of men available for large fire. The auxiliary
force consists of applicants for permanent positions in the
Fire Department, and members of the Veteran Firemen’s
Association.

BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Charles L. Newcomb, Chairman, Term expires January,  
George J. Prew, Term expires January,  
James H. O’Connell, Term expires January,  
John Hildreth, Secretary.
John J. Moynahan, Veterinary.
LOCATION AND ASSESSORS’ VALUATION OF TITEE
FIRE ENGINE HOUSES.
House No.  Tigh Street,
value of house and land.............. 

|
;
|
| .
| REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
House No.  Main Street,
value of house and land..............  
. House No.  West Hampden Street, ;
value of house and land..............  
House No.  Canal Street,
value of house and land..............  
louse No. d, South Street,
value of house and land..............  
House No.  Chestnut Street,
value of house and land.......... ...  
Total co.ccens 
: APPARATUS. !
We have purchased during the past year two new exercise wagons and rebuilt one, which makes it practically as
good as new, for [TIouses  and  We have also completed new double tank combination hose wagon and
chemical engine which we feel sure will prove very effective piece of fire apparatus in the district we have placed it. !
namely, South Holvoke, which is crowded with tenement
property where overturned lamps and explosions of gasolene stoves are very frequent.
The apparatus now in service consists of six steam fire
engines, one spare engine, two double-tank chemical envines, two combination hose and chemical wagons, five twohorse hose wagons, one aerial truck, one Leverich hook and
ladder track, one double-tank combination chemical and
Seagreave hook and ladder truek, one three-horse despateh
Wado, SIX exercise and supply wagons, two chief's wagons,
twenty-eight three-gallon chenneal extinguishers, one superintendent of fire alarm wagon and three sleizhs. The apparatus is in first-class condition,
WAY AND FEED.
The price of hay and feed has been so much higher

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  !
this vear that it has added greatly to the cost of carrying
on the department, therefore we are not earrving mueh on
hand.

IIORSES.

We have forty-one horses in the Department some of
Which will have to be replaced in the near future but most.
of them are in good condition. The time has not vet. arrived when horses can be entirely displaced, but great advance has been made in the manufacture of fire apparatus
Which are propelled by motors of various kinds and we are
watching with interest the expernments that are being made
in this direction and trust that the time will come when this
expensive branch of our Departinent can be equipped with
horseless vehicles.

HOSE.

The mereased cost of hose only emphasizes the good
Judgment of the Water Commissioners in’ putting in new
hvdrants. The closer the hydrants are placed the Jess hose
we have to use. [ydrants are permanent improveinent
While the hose is matter of annual expediture. We will
always be obhged to use hose, but the more hydrants we
have the Jess hose we shall have to buy and we trust that
the Water Comanissioners will put inas many new hydrants *
the coming Vear as possible.

The following is the amount of hose on hadn: |

Good. Fair. Poor. Total.

House No. 
House No.  OOO NTO 
House No.  Lee Lae  
House No.  Lees Leen  
Tlouse No.  Lea aes  
ITouse No.  Lea 
Totals,  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
HOUSES.

During the past vear the Board of Public Works has
done exeellent work in the various engine houses, none of
which will be so much appreciated as the extension to the
Highland Engine House, which makes this house first-class
engine house. It is now possible to do with comfort and
ease the work reqiured from the men and apparatus at this
point. We wish to express our gratitude to the Board of

 Aldermen who have made it possible for us to have this
improvement.
FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPI

We would repeat our recommendation of many years
passed that the wires of the Fire Alarm System be put
underground in the thickly settled portions of the city.

 We have been very fortunate in the past year that no serious
accident has happened to our System, but we beheve that
it is wrong to carry these wires overhead any longer, and
we trust vou will make arrangements so that your Board
of Fire Commissioners can carry out this improvement in
the coming year. failure on the part of our Fire Alarm
System to properly work, would be serious matter, and we
have to commend our superintendent of this department
that he has kept his apparatus in such excellent shape that
we have had no serious trouble.

The property in this department is as follows, viz. :
Strong current protector board. ........... 
Storage battery oo... c      
Case and switehboard.  ...  ...       SOQ.  |
GO miles of wires...  ...      ees  
+ tower hells and strikers. ............ mechanical gongs in engmeer’s house...... DOO. 
TS Gamewell signal boxes. ......   TOO.  telegraph poles...  ... ce  private Gamewell boxes. ........ ...  .

| REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS eighteen-inch gongs and indicators.......... indicators without gongs............ dead-man .....  ...      eens private Star boxes. ....  ... cc   
 city signal boxes, Star make............... locust PINS  ...     ewes  -cireuit repeater...  ...      stop clocks...  ... cc    eens  
Horse   t    
Wagon  .      ees  
Harness. ete.      ce     eens  
Meigh         wees pike poles, cant hook, crowbar, shovels   miles of line wire on hand............ back boards for boxes.............  hook blocks for boxes..............e  

Total oo...        ees 
VALUATION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. .
House No.  personal property valued at...... 
House No,  personal property valued at......  
House No.  personal property valued at......  
House No.  personal property valued at......  
House No.  personal property valued at......  
House No.  personal property valued at......  
Total occ   ees 

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY NO.  .
Joseph M.- LaFrance, second assistant engineer and captain,
  High street,  .
John J. Casey, lieutenant, High street, May .
John J. Moriarty, permanent man, High street, Sept.  ,
 .
Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man, High street, April
  .
James Gately, permanent man, High street, June  ,
 .
Michael Riley, driver, July .
William Fleming, lineman, Hampden street,  .
Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man, Iligh street, April
  .
Michael Lacey, tillerman, High street, April .
Dominick A. Gorman, permanent man, Iligh street,
June .
HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY NO.  .
John F. Rohan. captain, Hampden street, Jan. .
Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man, Hampden street.
Jan.,  .
George A. Ellison, driver, Hampden street. Feb.,  .
COMBINATION CHEMICAL AND TOOK AND LADDER
CO. NO.  .
Daniel J, Gorman, captain, South street, Feb. .
James J. Crowley, lieutenant, South street, Jan. .
Charles F. Aurnhammer, driver, South street, Sept.  .
 s.
STEAMER AND DESPATCH CO. NO.  .
Patrick JIurley, captain, High street, March .
Joseph M. Riley, Heutenant, High street, Sept. .
John J. Fenton, permanent man, High street, Jan.,  .

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
James O’Grady, permanent man, High street, April,
 .
Patrick .Rohan, permanent man, High street, May  ,
 .
William Brady, night watchman, High street, May  ,
 .
Sifroy Perron, permanent man, Tigh street, April  ,
 .
Frank S. Lynch, permanent man, High street, May  d,
 .
Panl Bieber, driver Despateh No.  High street. April
  .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
Damel MeLean, captain, Main street, Aug. .
William Gately, Heutenant, Main street, July,  .
John .Moreau, permanent man, Main street, Jan.  ,
 .
Robert E. McCarthy, driver, Main street. Oct. .
James Lyneh, driver Tose, Main street, Oct. .
Patrick Barrett, permanent man, Main street, April  ,
 .
Dennis Devine, permanent man, Main street. April  ,
 .
STEAMER CO. NO.  |
Samuel D. Loomis. captain, Tkampden street. July  ,
 .
Albert Tardy, driver Hose, Tlampden street. April,  .
Daniel Moynahan, driver, Tampden street, Apml  ,
 .
Charles H. Knapp, engineer, TTampden street, Aug.  ,
 ;
James F. Dwyer, permanent man, Tlampden street, April
  .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
John Welch, captain. Canal street. Aug.,  .
John J. Ryan, heutenant. Canal street,  ;
Thomas Conway, driver Hose, Canal street, Jan.,  .
James Brady, permanent man, Canal street. Jan. .
Dennis J. Sheehan, driver, Canal street, April .
Michael Bowler, permanent man, Canal street, Jan..  .
Matthew F. Welch, permanent man, Canal street, Oct.  .
 .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  d.
Daniel Hogan. captain, South street, Feb. .
J. J. Hallissey, lieutenant. South street. July .
P. T. Kennedy, permanent man, South street, Aug.  .
 .
August Greunert, permanent man, South street, Jan.,
 .
P. J. Kennedy, driver, South street. Jan. .
Lows LaBreque. engineer, South street. Nov. .
Thomas Ash. driver Hose, March,  ,
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
 Thomas Ryan, engineer, Chestnut street, Nov. .
Patrick J. Cronin, stoker, Chestnut street, April .
HOSE COMPANY NO.  .
Damel J. Brennan. captain, Main street. April .
Michael Donoghue, heutenant. Main street, Jan.  .
Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man, Main street. June,
 ,
J.J. Sullivan. driver Hose, Main street. Mareh .
George Miles, permanent man, Main street. April ,

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIUNERS }

HOSE COMPANY NO.  |

James J. Long, captain, Chestnut street, Aug.,  .
John J. Manning, heutenant, Chestnut street, Sept.  |

 |
Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man, Chestnut street,

Jan.,  :
Daniel J. Lynch, driver Hose, Chestnut street,  |
George Hickson, permanent man, Chestnut street, June |

 

CHEMICAL ENGINE COMPANY NO.  !
John P. Wynn, captain, High street, Jan. !
Walter Watt, lieutenant, High street, Feb. )
Timothy Harrington, driver, High street, Jan. |
William J. Millane, permanent man, High street, April |
  |
CHEMICAL ENGINE COMPANY NO.  |
. George F. Orrell. captain, Hampden street, Feb.,  :
A. F. Mulqueeney, driver, Hampden street, May .
W. H. Strain, permanent man, Hampden street, April

  .

CALL ENGINEERS AND STOKERS. .

 STEAMER NO.  :

Frank A. Shelley, engineer, mechanic, Newton place, :

April,  .
White P. Bidwell, stoker, paper finisher, Newton place,
April,  .

STEAMER NO.  |

James A. Flynn, engineer, mechanic, Hamilton street,

Oct. .

Edward Ahearn, stoker, moulder, Main street, Aug.  |

 ,

|

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
STEAMER NO.  .
L. F. Thorpe, stoker, carpenter, Waldo street, March,

 .

STEAMER NO.  .
John F. Mahoney, engineer, tinner, Center street,  .
James F. O’Connor, stoker, mechanic, West street, provisional appointment.
STEAMER NO.  .
Thomas Ryan, engineer, mechanic, Maple street.
Patrick J. Cronin, stoker, mechanic, High street.
CONCLUSION.

We again thank the Honorable Mayor and City Couneil
for their liberal appropriations made for the Fire Department and for the various acts of courtesy shown us during
the past year and we hope that the new Board of Aldermen
will make appropriations sufficiently hberal to enable us
to carry out the various recommendations that we have
made so that we may still strengthen and improve our Fire
Department, and we hope that these various recommendations may have your careful consideration and at least some
of them may commend themselves to you so that you will
enable us to carry them into effect. We take this opportunity to thank the Board of Public Work, the Board of
Water Commissioners, Electric Light Department, City ,
Clerk, City Treasurer, Ctiy Auditor, City Marshal, and all
the other public officers for their uniform courtesy shown
us during the past year, and especially do we desire to
thank the Street Railway Company for the privilege they
have extended to the firemen to ride upon the cars when
in uniform. This courtesy will be greatly appreciated by
the members of the Department and on their behalf we
thank the Street Railway Company.

Respectfully yours,
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB,
GEORGE J. PREW,

JAMES H. O’CONNELL,
Fire Commissioners.

REPORT OF
City Treasurer’s Office,
City Hall, Holyoke, Mass., Dec. .
To the Honorable, Mayor and Aldermen:
GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to present to you the
annual report for the fiscal year  .
Balanee on hand December .......... 
Total receipts during fiscal year  ...  
$ 
Total payments during fiscal year 
Balance on hand November .........  
$ 
-RECEIPTS.
The amounts received from various sources and eredited to sundry accounts are as follows:
Board of Health .........      
City Hall Rental ............     eens  
City Property .......           
Contingent .........     tenes  
City Yard Building ............ :e      
Bridge Street School ..........        
rr  
Gas and Electric Department.............--  
General Receipt Account ...........---+e-  
Highways and Bridges ..........---+  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
Highway Permanent Works ................  
Holyoke Water Commissioners .............  
Income from Cemetery Funds Deposits......  
Interest on Daily Balances.................  
Lighting  ...  .     a   
Liquor Licenses .........      
Military Aid Civil War....................  
Municipal Sinking Fund Commissioners......  
Parks ...     cc       
Polle@ Lo   nee      
Sealer of Weights and Measures............  
Sundry Licenses .........  ... ees  
Relief co.cc    ees  
| State Aid Civil War...................  
State Aid Spanish War....................  
Schools...  ...   ce       ees  
SOWePS (oo      teen nee  
Sidewalks, oo...  ...    eens  
Soldiers’ Burial ...... .. ..  ees  ,
T. FEF. MeCabe, Coll. Excise Tax  ........  
T. F. MeCabe, Coll. Sidewalks
DOL Lee  ee eh  
T. FL MeCabe, Coll Sidewalks
W  Lee     
T. F.o MeCabe, Coll. Sidewalks
T  coc ec ce     
a ——-——.  
T. F. MeCabe, Coll. Sewers  
T. FL MeCabe, Coll. Sewers  
T. F. MeCabe, Coll. Sewers  
—  
T. FL MeCabe, Coll. Int. Taxes
TWD  Lee    
T. EF. McCabe, Coll. Int. Taxes
|  
T. KF. McCabe, Coll. Int. Taxes
OS  


REPORT OF CITY TREASURER 
T. F. McCabe, Coll. Int. Taxes
OL:  
T. F. MeCabe, Coll. Int. Taxes
| IT ec s secen  
———  
T. FP. MeCabe, Coll. Taxes 
T. FL MeCabe, Coll. Taxes 
T. F. McCabe, Coll. Taxes  ..  
T. F. McCabe, Coll. Taxes  ...  
T. FL MeCabe, Coll. Taxes  ...  
———————-  
Sewers Permanent Construction. ...........  
Sewers  ...  c.       ees  
Sidewalks  co...  ... ee      
i) Sidewalks ..  ...           
! Railroad Allev Paving. ............ .. 
| Corporation Tax oo...        
National Bank Tax. .....  ...      
Temporary Loans  ...        
| Whiting Street Fund.... ete     ees  
Gas and Eleetrie Bonds  ...............  
Public Park Loan  .......... 
School Loan WOT co...eees Years Municipal Bonds  ............ Years Munieipal Bonds  ............  
Total Reveipts  ...  ee) 
PAYMENTS.
The amounts disbursed and charged to sundry accounts
are as follows: |
Armory Tax Interest ............  |
Armory Tax Sinking Fund............... |
ASSOSNOPS    tu |
ANOVS. Lc     ees  
Board of Health.............      

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
(ity Hall Rental...  ... 
City Property ........  ...        
City Engineering ............       
City Yard Building.....................  
County Tax oo... cc      
Contingent  ...  cc    eens  
Contingent, Board of Public Works.........  
|  
Fuel...  ce   ene  
Gas and Electrie .....  ... ees  
Gas and Electric Interest.....,............  
Gas and Electric Renewals and Extensions...  
Gas and Electric Extensions................  
| Highwavs and Bridges............  
Highway Permanent Works  
Income from Cemetery Funds Denposit......  
Interest City Debt .......... .. ..  ...  
Interest Water Debt ......... ..........  
Interest Railroad Stock. ...................  
Interest Temporary Loans................ 
Highland Engine House Addition. ...........  
Jackson Street Underpass..............  
JSAMITOPS Lc ec  eens  
Janitors’ Supphes ...........    
Lighting .o oc.   e    
Liquor Licenses  ...    ees  
Military Aid Civil War................  
Military Aid Spamish War...............  
Municipal Sinking Fund Commission........ |
| Municipal Lighting Bonds...............  
National Bank Tax......  ...      
OverlavingS oo...           
Parks  ...        ees  
POhee Lo cc         
Pubhe Library ..  ...     
Oakdale School ....  ...    

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
Permanent Sewers ..........   cence  
Relief...     ences  
Salaries Board of Public Works.............  
Salaries, ..  ...      veces  
OL  
Schools oo...  ce  ee   ees  
Soldiers’ Burial ........   ce ences  
Soldiers’ Relief ....  ... ce    
State Aid, Civil War ...............    
State Aid Spanish War................. ,
State Tax oo...            
Street Watering ........  ...    
Sidewalks  ... cc      een ees  
Ward Two School................ce s  
Water Rents ......... cc   aee  
Whiting Street Fund .................. 
City Debt  ...  ...   cet   ees  
Temporaray Loans ..............   scene  
Serial Bonds ........       
Total Payments .............

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER ,
BALANCE SITEET, NOVEMBER .
Dr.

H[olyoke Water Works..................... 
Gas and Electric Light Plant...............  
Real Estate (as valued by the Assessors)..... 
Holyoke and Westfield Railroad Stock (par

Value) occ.   ce e  eens  
Water Works Sinking Fund ComMISSION...       ee  
Municipal Sinking Fund CommisSION .e ee        
———---——-  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts............  
T. F. MeCabe, Coll. Taxes  ..  
T. F. MeCabe, Coll. Taxes  ..  
T. F. MeCabe, Coll. Taxes,  ..  
T. F. McCabe, Coll. Taxes  ..  
—————  
Deposit of Cemetery Funds................  
OFFS)  
$  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
Cr. ,
City Property ....... .ee      
City Yard Building.........----  
, Highway Permanent Works.....  
Highways and Bridges.........-  
Jackson Street Underpass.......  
Ward Two School...........---  
Funded Debt Direct............  
Funded Debt (authorized by special acts) occ...ee   
Funded Debt for Gas and Electric
Plant oo... ee        
Funded Debt for Holyoke Water
Works .......         
Funded Debt for H. W. R. R.
Stock co.cc       ees  
oe  
Sinking Fund for City Debt....  
Sinking Fund for Holyoke Water
Works .....  ...   ee  
ee 
Fire Engine ........      
a  
Overlayings .......          enees  
Gas and Electric Extension. .........  
Gas and Electric Department........... 
Cemetery Funds ..........c ee eens  
Whiting Street Fund. .........   
Temporary Loans (in anticipation of taxes)...  
City of Holyoke... ... .       
$ 


 |
  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—Exhibit B.
 Showing the aggregate amount maturing each year.
Payable Hol. W. Water Gas and
in B.RB. Stock. W’ks. Electric. City Debt Direct. Total. .
  $* $*  tT  , **     **    **    **    **    **                                ,.     |
  
Totals,  
* Serial Bonds.
 To be met by Sinking Fund.
** Exempted by special acts of the Legislature.

|
a re,
CE.
  .
 oe D.
-   . 
; ...  
- os ae  
wae  
. Lae  
aa wee  ae  
a  
- wae  
a Lean  
| Sts.  
eae  
| Lees 
|  tees  
, nee  
: mot, Sts.  
| og re to   
. oe  Dee  
-  a,  
:  
| :
pp  ‘.

|
  Ru ot .
BONDED C
 Showing the a
Payable Hol. W. Wate 
in RB.B.  tock. W'ka .
 *
  :
 oS
  ;
  .
 TO,
  oe
  ;
  |
  Ft Fe .
  co  o
  oN
  ne i
  Co Ca
  |
  so ,
  “* Se an |
  |
  |
  Oe *: oo, :
  Be
  a
  se  
Totals, 
* Serial Bonds.
 To be met by
** Exempted by ‘+ Legislature.

 
REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE.
. Valued by the Board of Assessors in  .
SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND LAND. |
Brick School.
Lyman and Center Streets.............. 
East Dwight and Center Streets.........  
West Street .....  ... ees  
Hfannlton Street oo.  ...   |
Morgan School (Bridge Street).........  
Sargeant Street oo...    |
Hamilton and Park Streets....... .......  
Main and Papineau Streets..............  
Elin Street...  ... ces  
Maple and Appleton Streets............ ;
Sargeant and Chestnut Streets..........  
Pine, Sargeant, Bh and TTampshire Sts.  
Carlton Street .... ... ec   
School Street oo... ee    $. 
Carlton and South Streets.......... .... ,
Nonotuek Street  ... ee    
Nonotuck, Lineoln, Waldo and Allyn Sts. ,
Chestnut Street o..  ...  
Ingleside co.      
- West Holvoke o... .. ce   |
Wooden. |
Temple Street ..........      D.  ,
School House Lot (Sargeant Street....... 
$ 

i :
 
| REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
' ENGINE HOUSES AND LAND. |
Engine House.
Chestnut Street ........ ......... 
Canal Street...  ...     
Main Street  ...  
South Street...  ...      
Thigh Street  ... cc    
West Hampden Street..................  
Springdale Avenue .............. 
#£ 
MISCELLANEOUS.
City Hall Building, High and Dwight Streets 
Tlillside Ilospital, Jarvis Avenue............  
City Farm, House and Barn, Ingleside........  
Barn and Sheds, Commercial Street..........  
Bath House in Ward Two, Summer Street....  
Bath House in Ward Four, Walnut Street....  
Bath House in Ward Six, Commercial Street.  
£ 
PARKS. |
Hampden Park, [lampden, Maple. Chestnut |
and Dwight Streets...  ...  
Prospect Park, Prospect Street......... ..  
Canonchet Park, Bowers, Samosett, West and
Pequot Streets oo...  ...     
Hamilton Park, Sargeant Street......... .....  
Germania Park, Bridge, Park and Jackson
Streets  .    ee   eae  
Ranger Park, Appleton and Suffolk Streets.  
Ewing Park, Appleton, Pleasant and Dwight
; Streets cee    
Coghlan Park, Crescent and Park Streets.....  

v
|
| |
|
| REPORT OF CITY TREASURER |
Elmwood Park, Elmwood...............----  
Springdale Park, Main Street...............  
| Laurel and Willow Street Triangle..........  
$ 
. LAND.
. !
Jefferson Street ...... ee      
Berkshire, Race and Hancock Streets....  
Pearl Street and Madison Avenue.......  
Jefferson Street and Madison Avenue.... ,
| Jefferson Street and Madison Avenue.... !
Madison Avenue and Pearl Street...... |
East Side of Pearl Street............... |
Madison Avenue and Pearl Street....... |
East and West Side Pleasant, West of |
| Dingle  ... ce    ees |
| Gravel Pit (Ingleside)............- |
OO
$  |
| |
| School] Buildings and Land................. 
| Engine Houses and Land...................  
Miscellaneous ..    ce  cec  
Parks      cec .  
a  
a |
Total Value of Real Estate.............. 
Respectfully submitted,
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,
City Treasurer. :
\

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.

I hereby certify that have examined the accounts of
the Treasurer of the City of Holyoke for the year ending
November and find same to be correct. have
verified the balance sheet of November showing
cash on hand at that date amounting to .

WALTER W. EATON.
Public Accountant.
Hlolvoke, Mass... January s,

.
REPORT OF THE
. .
Gas and Electric Department.
CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASS.
OFFICE OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
. January .
fo the Honorable, The Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen.
GeNTLEMEN:— hand you herewith the fifth annual report of the Gas and Electrie Department. .
The department has had large increase in’ business
during the past year, that at the gas works being an unusual
one, There has been sent out nearly enbie feet
more gas than during  or about ZO per cent gain. If
such decided gain continues during the next few vears,
it will be necessary to very materially increase the capacity
of some of the apparatus at the works in order to handle the
Increased volume of gas manufactured. Six hundred and
seventy-eight thousand feet of gas has already been foreed
through apparatus that was designed to care for only  .O  cubic feet daily. At the beginning of the past vear ,
the price of gas was reduced twenty cents per thousand
feet. which reduction, figured upon the amount of business
done in  took  out of the receipts of the department; but owing to the increase in business for  ,
the income from gas has been greater than for the
vear before.
The customary repairs at the works and upon the distributing mains have been made. There have been  
Feet of small wrought iron mains discontinued. larger cast |
Iron pipes taking their place. There have been miles
;
!

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
of  -inch,  -inch and  -inch mains laid, making net gain
in mileage of pipe of miles, the total mileage of gas
mains of various sizes being miles. There has been
added to the gas works duplicate set of water gas apparatus, doubling the capacity of the water gas plant as well as
adding to its rehability. There have also been two small
sheds added to the buildings. There are now in use  
gas meters, there having been gain during the vear of
  meters or per cent.
There has been sent out from the electric station  S.  kilowatts more current than was sent out during  ,
or gain of per cent over that vear. The increase in
the mumber of customers has been or per cent. and
that in the number of meters or per cent. There have |
been miles of wire and poles added to the distribut- !
ing lines. There have also been added transformers.
Ten thousand dollars was taken out of the ineome of the
station by the reduction in the price of street lights from
#€  to  per year; but the large increase in business
more than made good the loss. Owing to this imerease. it
is found practicable to reduce the price of electricity for
lighting from cents net per K. W. to cents net. This is
a reduction of per cent in the price. Commencing with
 the first of February,  the priee will be cents with  
eents discount per kilowatt on all bills paid on or before
the  th of the month, making the net price cents per
kilowatt.
The following tables present data from the records of
the gas works.
DATA.
Gas distributed, cubie feet,  
Coal carbonized, tons,  
Gas oil used, gallons,  
Coke made, bushels. 
Coke used in retort: house, bushels, TS+ 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
Coke used in water gas generator, bushels,  
Coke sold, bushels,  
Tar made, gallons, tae  
Tar sold, gallons.  
a GAS MAINS.
: Laid in  .
  inch feet
  inch feet
  inch feet
  inch feet
  inch feet |
  inch feet
  ineh feet feet
  inch feet feet
  inch feet feet
 inch feet
  inch feet
  ineh feet
  feet feet
Making miles of mains laid.
GAS SERVICES RUN.
  inch.  
Weinh |... Ce, inch, ,  
GAS METERS |
S-light meters in use December  
-light meters in use December  -light meters in use December  -light meters in use December  

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
 -light meters in use December  -light meters in use December  -light meters in use December ]
 -light meters in use December  ], ]
 -light meters in use December d
 -light meters in use December J
 -light meters in use December  -light meters in use December  -light meters in use December  -light meters in use December l
|  
Regular meters in use December  
Prepay meters in use December  ]
Regular meters in use December  
Prepay meters in use December  
B 
Gain in number of meters  or per cent.
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
Superintendent, ,  
Inspectors, .  
Clerk, ,  
Meter and complaint man... od
Foremen at works,  
Repair man, ,  
Foremen on street work,  
Stokers, —. .  )
Water gas helpers, .  
Coke man, ,  
Purifier helpers, .  
Street men, ,  
Firemen,  
Total,  

a
GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
Net price of gas,  per thousand feet.
The following tables present data from the records of
, the electrie station:
Current sent out from station, kilowatts, —.  
Number of customers, total. |
Number of customers, power,  
Number of miles of wire in streets,  :
Number of poles in streets,  
Number of transformers in use, '
Number of meters in use,  
Number of street are lamps, 
Number of commercial are lamps,  
Number of C. P. street ineandeseent lamps, .-  
Number of C. P. street incandescent lamps,  
Number of C. P. street ineandescent lamps,  
Number of tons of steam coal used,  
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
Superintendent,   |
Foreman, , d
Engineers,  
Oilers, .  
Firemen,  
| Dynamo men, ,  
Trimmers, ,  
Line and repair men, er.
laborers, !
Tota, FB :
}
Net price of electricity, cents per K. W. After Feb- :
| ruary cents per K. W.

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the department:
WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOV. .
EXPENSES.
Coal, to. 
Oil, ..  
Supplies,  
Repairs,  
Water power rental,  
Pay roll,  
Office expenses,  
Insurance,  
Miscellaneous,  
——-——— 
Bad debts,  
Interest,  
Depreciation,  
————— 
$ 
Profit and loss. —.  
|  
INCOME.
Gas and electricity, 
Coke and tar,  
$ 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
BALANCE SHEET, NOV. .
ASSETS.
Plants, Nov. 
Additions andextensions,  
$  |
Less depreciation,  
—————$]  
Supplies. 
Coke and tar.  
Gas delivered, not billed,  
-Book accounts.  
—————  
$ 
LIABILITIES.
City of Holyoke eash investedin plantstodate, 
Accounts payable,  
“ —— 
Depreciation fund.  
Profit and loss  
—— 

| GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
GAS WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
EXPENSES.
Coal, , 
Oil,  
Supplies,  
Repairs,  
Water power rental, TAS.T 
Pay roll, ae  
Office expenses, Lok  
Insurance,  
Miscellaneous,    
Bad debts, . 
Interest,  
Depreciation,  
$ 
Profit and loss,  
£ 
INCOME. .
Gas,  
Coke and tar,  
———— 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
ELECTRIC WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER .
‘EXPENSES. |
Coal, , 
Oil and waste, |
Supplies,   .
Repairs,  
Water power rental,  Pav roll,  
Office expenses,   |
Insurance,  
Miscellaneous,  
——————  
Bad debts, 
Interest,   
Depreciation, —.  
————  
$ 
Profit and loss,  
$ 
INCOME.
Eectricity, . 

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
BALANCE SHEET, NOVEMBER .
ASSETS.
Gas works, cost Nov. )
  
Additions andextensions,  
$ 
Less depreciation, |
————— 
Supplies, 
Coke and tar, ..  
Gas delivered, not billed,  
Book accounts,  
———-—  
: ——§-— 
Electric plant, cost Nov. |
  
Additions andextensions,  
$ 
Less depreciation,  |
————— 
Supplies, 
Book accounts,  
———— 
—————- 
$ 
|

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
LIABILITIES. |
City of Holyoke, cash
invested in plants to
date, 
Accounts payable,  
. ——————. 
Depreciation,  
Profit and loss,  
—————  
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. SNOW, Manaver.
Examined and Approved,
January ,
WALTER W. EATON,
Pubhe Accountant.

e
‘ 
e
tL)

t
 
I
 
|
 
|

t

L
|

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
OFFICE OF THE CITY MARSITAL.
Holyoke, Mass.. December 
To the Honorable, the Mavor and Board of Aldermen of
the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the City Ordinance,
[have the honor herewith to submit for your consideration
the annual report of this Department for the year ending
November /

ORGANIZATION.

The regular foree consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal, Captain, Lieutenant, Matron, and fifty-one Patrolmen,
two of whom are doing special duty, and three are detailed
for house duty.

ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  .

Name. Rank. Date of Appointment.
Thomas J. Lyneh, Marshal, May 

», on bd |

I atrick Herbert, Assist ‘t Marshal, January +
“uothy Haley, Captain, February 
Patrick E. Sullivan, Lieutenant, January  Iss
Dennis Mack, Special Duty, May  
Chomas kK. Bligh, February 
Wilham KE. Blaekmer, House Duty. January ss  :
John A. Powers, January s
Cornelius Curran. .* February  '

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Name. Rank. Date of Appointment.
-Michael Shine, Patrolman, April 
Richard Peters, January 
Thomas F. Riley, ‘$ January 
Henry J. Campbell, ‘f January 
Michael J. Lynch, January 
Frank M. Priest, ‘* January &s 
George LL. Dickinson, ‘* February 
Patrick F. Ryan, ‘$ January 
Frank J. Gallagher, ‘* January 
Francis II. Ilastings, January 
John A. Geran, January  )
Peter A. Cullen, ** February 
James B. Griffin, ‘* February 
John J. Moriarty, ‘* February 
Jeremiah J. Linnehan,  February 
Patrick J. Reardon, February 
- John Leary, "ee May 
John W. Vaugh, ‘* June 
John A. Vachon, June 
James T. Donoghue, June 
Rock IH. Lalonde, .* June 
Maurice .O’Connor, ‘f June  |
Thomas Bresnahan, June 
Maurice Hl. Shine, ‘* August 
Matthew McClellan, sf August 
IIlenrv M. Fisher, August 
— Daniel C. MeCarthy, ** September 
Frank R. Metealf, ** February 
Riehard BK. Lowceock, ‘* March 
William J. Carey, ‘* February 
Michael Driscoll, ** February 
Peter J. Manning, February &,  
| Patrick J. Kennedy, ‘* February 
Walter BE. Murray, ‘* May 
kdward F. Gilday, July 
' James Maleolm, ** July  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Patrick J. Driscoll, July 
Thomas J. Rourke, July 
Patrick J. Gaughan, July 
Andre J. Senay, March  ,
Albert Mew, June 
John J. O’Donnell, June 
Maxwell McDowell,  August 
James T. Welch, January 
John J. Grady, February 
Henry Sussenguth, ‘* October 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan. Matron, April 

STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
Total number of arrests. ...........c  
Males coc   une eaeea uees  
cc  
ARRESTS WERE MADE FOR THE FOLLOWING
OFFENSES.

Accessory before the fact. .  cec .  
Attempt to break and enter.........      
Assault with intent to kill... ..... c  
Assault with dangerous Weapon... ...       is)
Assault on an Offieer.    nee  
Assault See ee  ee       
Breach of the  
Breaking and CNLOPING. oo.       ewes  :
Bastardy     .  
Being Present at gaming on the Lord's day........  
Cruelty to animals Sec ee         
Carrying dangerous Weapon.......e      
Drumkenmess oe     ccc ces  
Delinquent child        cc   
Disturbing the peace... ...  cce  . oS
Fornication See      ee     ees  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

|
Gaming on the Lord’s day................... 
Indecent exposure of person............... 
Illegal sale of intoxicating liquor..................  
Keeping open shop on the Lord’s day..............  
Keeping house of ill fame.................. ..  
Keeping gaming house............ cc     ]
Larceny oo.     ence   ees  
Larceny from the person...............    
Mahetous mischief oo...  ... es  
Malicious injury to personal property..............  
NOM-SUPPOPtee   teen ees lo
Night walking ...  ...  ce       
Neglected child coo... c  eens  
Operating steam engine without Iieense..........  
Overspeeding an automobile... ..  ...  ]
Peddling without Heense.......  ...   
Ringing false fire alarm... oo...    ]
Receiving stolen goods...  ...     
Stubbornness oo...          i)
Sureties of the peace... ...      
Stoning railroad train... .. ee   ]
TrUuaneN coc c  nee   ees Y
TYreSPpaSS     teenies ]
Unlawfully taking team... .. ce.     
Unlawful cohabitation...  ...       ]
Violation butter Taw... cc.ee eens Ss
Violation oleomargarine law... ..  ...   
Violation game Jaw... ..  ...ee eens )
Violation city ordinmances...........      
VaeraneVv coc ce nee     eens 
Walking on railroad track. ...........    

KEPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PULICE  
DISPOSITION OF CASES.

Appealed oo... cc          ene  
Bound over to the Superior Court................  

Committed to the House of Correction for non-pay
ment of fine... .... ec  ee eens  ]
Committed to the House of Corrtion............  
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory......  

Committed to the Massachusetts Hospital for DipsoMANIACS           tent nee ]

Committed to the Lyman School for Boys.......... a
Committed to the Hampden County Truant School  )
Committed to the care of the State Board of Charity  )
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory Prison....  
| Discharged oo...     eens  
Dismissed oo...   ce      teen ences  
Defaulted bonds  ...  cc   ees  
Fined and paid... ...  ...      eens aTd
Furnished sureties to keep the peace.............. ]
Probated and discharged. ......   ees  
Placed on file...  ...        ne    )
Released occ  ce     ees  
AGES.

Under vears.........   cc   ccu an  
Vv and under  ...      and under  .........            
Bo and under  ... ..      ees  and under  .........  cc    eceu  
D  and under  ....... cce eaceuu and under  ........          

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED.

: AMECYLICA Loc   ect        ene  
AUStFI coc cc ce           eens as
Canada oo...          nee eens  

Denmark ......  ... cc cc ce      ]
England  ...     ce cc    tees  
GreeC@ Lecce cc  c      eens  
Germany oo. ee  teeneens  
Holland ..  ... cc ec ec    nes ]
TTungarv oo. ce     ene eens )
Treland occec    ce     
Italy Lo     tees |
Prince Edward Island......... .... ...      
Poland voce cc e         nee st)
Portugal oo...       en es I
RUSSiQ oo        ees  
Seotland oo... cc ce  te   tenes  
Sweden co.cc ce cc       eens D
Wales coc     cc cc      teen teas  

 
NUMBER OF ARRESTS EACIL MONTIIL,
December, Jo... cc eene  

oo dannaryy, TIO Lo ce ce      
February, TOOT oo...      
Mareh, Jo...  tee    
April,ce   nets  
Mav. coo       een enes  
June, WIDOT coo       
Daly. WOT occ       reves s. TSS
August. TDG coo. e  ee    
September. DOG  ... cc       
October, coo c    eens  s
November, TP QT coo...ce    ena  

}  )

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
CLASSIFICATION OF ARRESTS BY MONTHS.
,
} oii ||
 J
SIS/E SiS/  Sl lelgle
  clelgigis ei a) ele /e
Q Sie   
|  
Accessary before the fact... |... ct oe 
Attempt to break and enter ......,......!.. ... nee ne en enn  
Assault with intent to kill OI secs lent  sete Meter lteesct teene!
Assault with adangerous weapon wen   sees} Dee. |... Li terete! §
Assault on ap ullicer..................' viene [eseesnp   j...---  
Assaults:,   
Breach of the peace secs st [es ttcn : on...   lees.  Tie Game |
Breaking and entering...........  ...) | Dee  Lecce foe  
Being present at gaming on the| P| |
OFd’S day... ce cec ce eebec ! DQ  else cfec s|ec  ceases cecsceliscess[seseesf ?  
Cruelty to animals........... ........ jl orks nn ein bees cohen  
Carrying dangerous weapon...)  |. ob. cuore  
Drunkeness oo. csses | BS  
Delinquent child. oo...    : costs  fecsees face steeple] Bal  
Disturbing the peace yen be covers  
Formication ........ .......cesses pence vases COTES cosets s neces |errecl dee el  
Gaming on the Lord's day .-t| TD cliccseey vee wees cralsveneelevevee cress eevee vee  
Indecent exposure of person .... [titers sees pes aan oes cooe|  --.---|ee 
legal sale intoxicating liquors...) (ole   eefeesten  U.--|  
Keeping open shop on the Lord's !
a seenee seats forsee [est  crates cneteept sles dl 
Keeping house of ill fame. .....,...... n  CEE ses cpo  Ls sp  
Keeping gaming house........) Looe   oe votes bette testes t ne| :
Larceny oo. oes, LD  Ww  
Larceny from the person. el , vecepev |  Dov csl sees lovseense tetesv s
Malicious mischief ..........    DV ehb | OD   veces [soot  
Malicious mischief to personal |
Non SUPDOTR.   ) FL   OQ Qi  Lo .
Night walking    lee Bote hes    
Negiected chila OB dee:  WD  B] QD esos)  
Operating steam engine with bo
Out license  .  nee cree l | Dae vdesees vev  tstn   
Overspeeding an automobile... ... j..  ceca  settee  nee ees See |
Peddling without license........ [oe veel Dee   OD Po eel  
Ringing false tire alarm... ceccy cesses cette cesses eoa  vecesl ccneesleeseesfon : eaverlevesee  
Receiving stolen guods........... see ssreidess | aosee Deh Yop...  
Stubbormess oe   en  tenses   ns BoD Deere    
Sureties of the peace creenee esese Lie| clies esfessens| Qesece |ocs      
Stoning railroad train...) cec  cc cle scbecs tenecesy ues sles  !  
Truancy vecesecsctsnsenvensa ener oe veel WI Doce)  
Se er Ss iene   rn Jee rer |
Unlawfully taking team................ DQ  bec   che Vow Do. boa  
Unlawful cohabitation.............. |evc|  cree     coslic  cave fec  )......  
Violation of butter law .......... y cesses [enenes cence! Ri ce p canes bees: Jeo  
Violation of cleomargarine VaWe eel   lees sane e.\)
Violation of game law..............  ...... uecsecles stenees dev Vo... veel  
Violation of city ordinance.........'  ££  
VagrancyOo BOOS ad 
Walking on railroad bees ore Pr  ...... 
— ne
; ,;
|  
ETE OO OSS —- ———go REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
DISPOSITION OF CASES FOR THE YEAR  .
SIEIS/ESISISIS/E/E/E  
gialsls|/Blelelelealele,e]e 
siSiflzlsl /e/ 
’ fo yp i
Bound over to Superior Court...)  /......)  j...--.) oa} oa apt ahi) oa
Committed to House of Correc:
tion for non-payment of fine};  
Committed to the House of Cor-  
PeCtion................ .. :.-s |   
Committed to the Massachusetts
Reformatory ............-..  foc} Ble] MV) M } Meet Map ay  
Committed to the Massachusetts
Hospital for Dipsomania.....|......)  Lj.....-|ecc [  [ee|ese{ec  [cec | eeseefec  
Committed to the Lyman School |
for Boys............c. se-ccses [ec s| oe[ee| coesee|o ed oe Zi......  
Committed to the Hampden
County Truant School.........)......[... esece[ ] Df] Dp; DP lB
Committed to the care of the
State Board of Charity........)  J......]...... rk rere li...... .....|  
Cemmitted to the Woman's Re- |
formatery Prison ................Je  (| Veli [iel ele,  WW Ly 
Discharged........ .  |  
Defaulted Bonds..................cc |ecc |ee [ese|sec | eesees efecc feewes es Or Deere |
Fined and Paid................ .........|   
Furnished Sureties to keep the |
Probated and discharged...........;   Q)...... 
- Placed on file..w.e.c.c|  B) te,  Sal 
Released .........  c... ccen |  ")  @& 
|| Pl
TOTAL ] 
re

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE gt
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY THE
POLICE.

Number of children found and restored to parents.  
Number of lodgers acecommodated................  
Number of meals furnished prisoners.............  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured....  
Number of dead bodies found....................  
Number of fire alarms given................ 
Number of fires extinguished without alarms......  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported......  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted.......  
Number of stray teams taken up..................  
Number of street lamps reported not lighted......  
Number of arrests for other cities................  
Number of warrants for liquor served.............  
Number of bicyeles reported stolen and not recovered  
Number of bicycles stolen and recovered..........  
Number of bicycles found and returned to owners.  
Number of safe doors found open................  
Number of dogs shot.........      ees  
Number of defective sidewalks reported........... oll
Number of defective catch-basins reported........ ol
Number of insane persons cared for...............  
Number of dipsomaniaes committed to Foxboro....  
Number of notices served. ..........  ...  eens TO 
Value of property stolen.................. -- 
Value of property recovered.......  ee BA SEI
Amount of money reported stolen................ 
Amount of money recovered........     OB

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT FOR THE
YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER |
Assault and battery ...........  ... ees  
Assault with dangerous Weapon.............. .. ]
Assault on an officer. ...  ...        ]
Breach of the peace.......  ...   eens  
Common night walker...........     
Drunkenness ..........      tee   ]
Formication  ... cc     ene nee  
Illegal sale of intoxicating liquor...  ... ]
Keeping house of ill fame............ ..... ]
Larceny from the person..............  ]
Lewd and laseivious cohabitation. ................  
Larceny occce   teen  
Neglected child oo...  ... ce  eens  
Violation of the butter law. ........ .......  I
VagraneV        nee nees  
INSUNO@ Lo ce  ne ence nees  
Lod gers.  ... ce  ee   
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Appealed (oo...      eens  
Bound over to the Superior Court.............  
Committed to the House of Correction. .........  
Committed to TIouse of Correction for non-payment 
OL fim coc       aa
Committed to the Woman's Reformatory Prison....  
Committed to the State Board of Charity. .......-- ,
Discharged .o.        eens +
Fined and paid...        
Probated and discharged. oo...  ce ce  a
Placed on file. oc        
Released ener   te eet teen     eet UT
 

| ,
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
T regret having to report notable increase in the number of women arrested during the year, and as usual drunk| enness claims many victims.
! Eight women have been committed to the Woman’s
! Reformatory Prison at Sherborn, five young girls have been
placed in care of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd at Spring| field, large number of children who have been brought
| before the court for neglect are being eared for by the Sis) ters of Providence at Brightside and Mt. St. Vincent.
| wish to express my thanks to the Marshal and his
assistants, also to the members of the force for their courteous treatment at all times and for their ready co-operation
In my work.
Respectfully submitted, |
KATE MOYNITAN,
Police Matron.
) |
| THE FOLLOWING IS TITE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL
! SYSTEM. oo
Duty calls from patrolmen.............  ,
Telephone calls...      ee    
Wagon calls, davs......            
Wagon calls, Nights...  ...        
Miles run occ       nennean  
CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.  
Cornelius J. Louney, appointed January was
Placed on the pension roll December |
James T, Welch, appointed January ,
John ‘Grady, appointed February |
Henry Sussenguth, appointed October ,
ee

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT UF POLICE
IN MEMORIAM.
GEORGE P. BUCKLEY.
Appointed February .
Died January .

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  FINANCIAL REPORT.
Total appropriation ............... 
Receipts from police court...............  
Receipts from Hampden County..............  
Received from all other sources..............  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Pay roll ......   ec cet      ees 
Miscellaneous expenses ............ cc  
$ 
In compliance with provision of the Charter, respectfully recommend an appropriation for the ensuing year
of .
‘ITEMS.
Appropriation ........    ee ) 
Estimated receipts ..........     eens .
Oo 
Pay roll ..  ...    ce        
EXpensSeS  ...  cc            
| 
Assuming the office of marshal in the closing days of
May, found it in most excellent condition respecting the
character and deportment of its members and the efficiency
of its work. Not only was there in the main cheerful
compliance to the rules and regulations of the department,
but manifest disposition on the part of the force to excel
in the performance of duty. This sentiment on the part of
the members of the foree has made the duties of my position
pleasant and agreeable. :

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE |

The immunity from serious crime which this community
has enjoyed the past year is matter for congratulation,
With the exception of the murder of Eugene Antico, nothing
of any great magnitude has occurred. The perpetrator of
this crime, although stranger in this city, having been in
the city only few hours, is known to this department; and
while we have been unable to locate him to the present time.
we are still making diligent search and are confident of being

able to apprehend the guilty party.
| RECOMMENDATIONS.

I can but renew the recommendations of my predecessor, of the necessity of change in our signal svstem. The
present system has been in use for the past nine years, It Js
owned by the New England Telephone Company, and  far
from. satisfactory. would earnestly reeommend the  installation of the Gamwell Police Signal System, believing
that it would be valuable addition to the equipment of
this department.

. CONCLUSION.

I desire to acknowledge my obligation to Assistant Marshal Patriek Herbert, Captain Timothy TLlaley, Lieutenant
Patrick E. Sullivan, the special duty officers, as well as the
rank and file of this department who have suo ably sustained
me in discharging the duties of my office.

I wish to extend my sincere thanks to his honor, Mayor
Nathan P. Avery. for the prompt and hearty support he has
given me in fulfilling the duties of my office.

I also extend my thanks to Hon. Edward W. Chapin,
and Thomas .Tierney, justice and clerk respectively of
the police court, as well as all other city officials for the
many courtesies shown men.

Respectfully submitted, |
THOMAS LYNCH,
Marshal.

ANNUAL REPORT OF

Board of Public Works.
To the Honorable, the Mavor and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN:— The eleventh annual report of the Board
of Publie Works for the fiseal vear of is herewith presented for vour consideration. The Board refrains from
recommendations further than to hope that it may be given
sufficient funds to complete the planus for the betterment of
the streets, sidewalks, sewers, and other property, which
have, from time to time, been outlined in annual reports
and special communications from this departinent,

The year has witnessed the completion of the Walnut
street storm water sewer system and of the Ward Two
(Morgan) school building; the purchase of site for the
proposed Oakdale school building. which it is hoped can be
erected during the coming season, ereditable city vard
building has been constructed. suitable addition to the
Highland engine house has been built; and work was commeneed upon the separation of grades of the Tolvoke and
Westfield railroad tracks at Jackson street. This latter
work will be completed as soon as is possible in’  and
will relieve congestion of traffic in that section of the city.

The Bridge street and Back street school buildings were
disposed of by order of the Board of Aldermen and repairs |
undertaken at the Sargeant street school building to reheve
the crowded conditions in the South Chestuut street school
and at South Holyoke.

A larger vardage of sidewalk resurfacing was done
luring the season than in any one vear during the history
caf the Board, .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS

Appleton street was paved with vitrified blocks from
Bh street to Dwight street. and eurbing laid in the same
location,

In aecordance with an opinion of the City Solicitor,
the janitors in the pubhe school buildings came under the
Board February statement of the expenses in
that department will be found annexed hereto.

The widening and improving of Pleasant street north
of Dwight street was completed during the summer.

Much work has been done upon the streets im laying
a form of bituminous or tarviaized pavement. using the tar
from the gas works in place of the more expensive materials
generally used in this form of pavement.

A storm water sewer was laid in Appleton street from
Oak street to Sveamore street, and it is hoped to contimue
the same through Oak street to Suffolk street. thenee down
Suffolk street to discharge into the storm water sewer at
Pine street. just completed.

The financial statements hereto annexed, to which your
attention is invited. show in detail all of the work aecomplished during the year and the cost thereof.

Respectfully submitted,
M. F. WALSH, Chairman,
G. POTVIN, JR..
WILLIAM A. CHASE,
Board of Publhe Works

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Established January by His Honor, the Mavor,
under the provisions of Title Six, Chapter Thirty-four, of
an Act to revise the Charter of the City of Holvoke, which
provides for appointment of members by the Mayor without
confirmation,
ORGANIZED JANUARY .
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
Michael F. Walsh. Chairman, Term expires February,  
Gilbert Potvin, Jr., Term expires February,  
Wm. A. Chase, Term expires February,  
CLERK.
James L. Tighe, City Engineer, Term expires February,  
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Osear C. Ferry, elected January by the Board.
under Civil Serviee Rules..
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD AND THEIR TERMS SINCE
ORGANIZATION.
James TH. Newton, Chairman, January to December
: .
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, January .
William B. Reid, January to February .
Oren D. Allyn, January to February .
Gilbert Potvin, Jr. February .
William A. Chase, February .

 REPORT OF ROARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
DEPARTMENT ACCOUNTS,  ,
Total Appropriations. Balance
Receipts and Transfer carried
Department. Transfers to from. Expenditures. to  .
Alleys... ........ OOO T
City Hall Fund.......... 
City Property...........  .  ** 
Fuel... i...   ee BO OOOO 
Highways and Bridges...  . )
Lighting. ............... SO  ST. 
Pubhie W’ks Cont'e’t...  
Salaries Bd. P. W....... s. 
SeWers.  ee ROSILIT |
Sidewalks. ..............  ,. 
Street Watering. ........  
Water Rent.............  
Ward Two Sch’) App....   Ho
Perm’t H’wav Work... ..  . 
Perm’'t Sewer Work.....  
Janitors’ Salaries........  
Janitors’ Supphes.......  :
City Y'd New Bid’g..... , 
Oakdale School. .........  OO 
Holand Eng. Tlouse Add.  
Jackson St. Underpass.   
Bridge St. School. ......    
*Included also in City Property.
**$  reserved for School Repair Account.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
CITY PROPERTY DEPARTMENT.
Supplies and
Schoo] Buildings. Maintenance. Payrolls. Total.
Appleton Street Sehool...  |
*Bridge Street School....  
*Back Street School...... ...... wees 
**k. Dwight Street School ...... wee wees
Elmwood School .........  
Elm Street Sehool........  
Hamilton Street School....  
High Sehool .............  
Highland School .........  
Ingleside School .........  
Miscellaneous ...........  
Nonotuck Street School...  
No. Chestnut Street School  
Park Street School.......  
Sargeant Street School....  
School Street Sehool...... 
So. Chestnut Street School.  Springdale School (New).  
**Springdale School (Old)  ......  
West Street Sehool.......  
West Holyoke Sehool.....  
Ward Two School........  
$ 
*Sold  ..
**Not at present used for school purposes. .

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
, |
CITY PROPERTY DEPARTMENT.
Special School Building Repair Aecount.
Supplies and
School Building. Maintenance Pay Rolls, Total.
Appleton Street Sehool.... 
Carlton Street School..... veces  
E. Dwight Street Sehool.. Leena  
Elmwood School ......... Lees  
Elm Street School. .......  
Hamilton Street School... vee  
High Sehool .............  
Highland School ......... Dewees  
Nonotuck Street Sehool.... veces  
No. Chestnut Street School Lees  
Park Street School .......  TOO)  
Sargeant Street School....  
Springdale School (New)... Le   
West Street Sehool....... wees 
Ward Two New School....  
$ 
CITY PROPERTY DEPARTMENT. .
Fire Department ITouses.
Supplies and
Name. Maintenance. Payrolls. Total.
Elmwood Engine THlouse .. 
Emerald Engine House...  
Hligh Street Engine House. 
Highland Engine JIouse...  
Mt. Tom Engine House...  
Rehef Engine House...... 
$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
CITY PROPERTY DEPARTMENT.
Other Buildings.
Mat etenance. Pay rolls. Total.
Bath House, Ward One.... 
Bath House. Ward Four...  
Bath House, Ward Six....  
City Farm ..............   
City Hall ...............  
City Yard Buildings...... 
Hillside Ifospital ........ Lees  
Ritle Range ............. TOD
$ 
CITY PROPERTY DEPARTMENT.
All Other Expenses.
Name. Ma enance, Payrolls. Total.
Boilers.       Lees 
Elin Street Shop .........  
Fountains, Sanitary ...... D  :
Horse     ODAT ae  
Lewis, EF. Co... .. . ot) Lees 
Main Street Fountain..... vee eae  
Skating Rink ..........-.  
$  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
FUEL DEPARTMENT.
Material
Building. and Supplies. Payrolls. Total.

Appleton Street School...  tees 
Bridge Street Sehool...... 
City Farm .............. wees  
City Hall ............... wees  
City Yard Buildings...... re  
Elmwood School ......... vee  
Elmwod Engine House.... weceas  
Elm Street School........ wees  
Hamilton Street School... Lecce  
High School ............ Dewees  
VWighland School ......... wee  
High Street Engine House. Lees  
Highland Engine House... Lees  
Hillside Hospital ........ re  
Ingleside School ......... Dewees  
Mt. Tom Engine House.... tees  
Miseellaneous ......... wees  
Nonotuck Street: School... wee  
No. Chestnut Street Sehool  re  
Park Street School....... L  .)
Rehef Engine Touse...... Dee eae BOO)
- Sargeant Street School. ... wee    
School Street School... ... tee 
So, Chestnut Street School Hor. wees Hovey
Springdale School o.......  Lees  
Ward Two New School... ewes  
West Street School oo... veces  
West Holyoke School.....  ...  
£ SSO. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
LIGHTING DEPARTMENT.
School Buildings.
Gas Electric
Name. Lighting. —Lighting. Power. Total.
Appleton St. School  ......  
Bridge St. School ......  
Elmwood School ......  
Elm Street School    
Hamilton St. School  
Migh School  
Highland School . 
Nonotuek St. School ......  
N. Chestnut St. School ...... veces  
Park St. School  ...  
Springdale Se’l (New) .... ...   
West St. School  
$  
LIGHTING DEPARTMENT.
Fire Department Houses.
Gas Electric
Name. Lighting. Lighting. Total.

Elmwood Engine House... 
Emerald Engine IIouse...  
High Street Engine House.  
Highland Engine House... ......  
Mt. Tom Engine House... —- 
Relief Engine House......  
$  

“Gas engine.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
LIGHTING DEPARTMENT.
Buildings Other than Schools and Fire Departments.
Gas Electric
Name. Lighting. Lighting. Miscellaneous. Total.
City Hall ...... 
City Yard Buildings ......  
Miscellaneous wees L   
Prospect P’k Sanit’y ...... ......  
$  
LIGHTING DEPARTMENT.
Street Are and Incandescent Lights.
Park Are and Incandescent Lights.
Arc. Incandescent. Total.
Streets ..............-. 
Parks ...............-.  
$ 
WATER RENT DEPARTMENT.

Fire Hydrants .......  ...   ee pe   School Buildings ..........  ...   ee ]
Engine Houses .......    ee    
Street Watering ...  ...           
Other Purposes ........       eens  
Iforse Street Fountains...............     
Bath Houses ........   eens  
$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
JANITORS’ SUPPLIES DEPARTMENT.
Names of Buildings. Materials and Supplies.
Appleton Street School...............   
Bridge Street Sehool.............  ...     
. Film Street. Sehool..    
asnes, removal OFT........ HS FZYU, FZ, 
Dumping grounds ........  
Miscellaneous .........      
Papers, removal of ....... ......  
Teams, maintenance ......  
Telephone service ........   
Tools, new ..........  
Garbage, removal of...... wec   
Tools, maintenance ....... wee 
Total cash expenditures 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
LIGHTING DEPARTMENT.
Buildings Other than Schools and Fire Departments.
  ent ad
WATER RENT DEPARTMENT.
Fire Hydrants ..........    genes 
School Buildings .............  eens  
Engine Houses ...........  ...      
Street Watering ...........   ee ees  
Other Purposes ....... ..      teens  
Horse Street Fountains.................  
Bath Houses ...........       
$ a
|

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
JANITORS’ SUPPLIES DEPARTMENT.
Names of Buildings. Materials and Supplies.
Appleton Street School...........--    
Bridge Street School..........      
- Elm Street School.........--ec   er et   
Elmwood School .......       enes  
General Supplies, Stock on hand Nov. ...  
Hamilton Street School ...........   eens  
High School .......         eer  
Highland School ..........-     s  
Ingleside School ..........-     ec tes  
Miscellaneous ......   ecr  
- Nonotuck Street School...........  ees  
North Chestnut Street School...........-.. .-  d
Park Street School ...........     eens  
School Street School............  ec       
South Chestnut Street School..............+  
Springdale School ..........:      renee  
Ward Two New School............   
West Street School. ..........      ees  
West Holyoke School..............    eens  
$ 
ALLEY DEPARTMENT.
Materials
Account and Supplies. —— Payrolls. Totals.

Ashes, removal of........ 
Dumping grounds ........  
Miscellaneous ..... +   
Papers, removal of .....-. ..es+-  
Teams, maintenance ......  
Telephone service ......-. tees  
Tools, new ...... -. -+  
Garbage, removal of...... wees  
lools, maintenance ....... Lewes  
Total cash expenditures 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Appleton street, first
level canal bridge,
maintenance ...... 
Appleton street, second
level canal bridge
maintenance ......  
Asphalt blocks ......  Lecce Lee ae Lees
Appleton street, maintenance .......... tee 
Bridges, miscellaneous
repairs and maintenance .......-.ee   
Bowers. street, maintenance .......... tee    
Bh street, maintenance .......   
Buffalo Steam Roller
Co., labor for......     
Poston Maine R. R.,
labor for ......... wee      
Frick, local .........    Sees
Crosswalks, maintenAMC@ ..... ew   Lee    
Country roads, maintenance .......... tee 
Cement ...........-ee    
City vard building, repairs rebuilding, removing and repaving
yard ......     See    
Carlton street, maintenance .......... Leena Lees  
Cabot street, maintenANCE ....e    tee    
Cherry street, widening and extension ,
west of Hillside ave. Lee   

. REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Materiale
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
C Trosswalks, new ..... wee 
€‘abot street first level
canal bridge maintenANCE ..... ce     wee    
Cabot street second level canal bridge
maintenance ....... wees  
Coasting—Essex and
Prospect streets, protecting ........ Lees re  
Horse fountains, new ,
and maintaining ... wee    
Castings ....... .-  wee wcwee
Coal ...  ...  eeweewee tee
Dwight street, maintenANCE  ... e   weewe 
Dwight street  footbridge maintenance we    
Danger signs, erecting
at entrances of pri- |
vate streets .......  
Engineering departm’t,
labor for .......... wee wee 
Forestry, repairing tree
belts, planting trees
and maintenance of
trees ...       ween  
Fowles, J. H., labor for  wee  
Cwravelled streets clean  wee  
Gravelled streets, mis- ‘
cellaneous' repairs.. wee 
Gas and Electric department, labor for.....   
Hardware .......... wee wee 
High street, matfntenamce ......    wee  
Hampden street, maintenance .......... wees  
lfJommestead ave., maintenance .......... we   wee ae  

|
k
i
|
IIo REPORT UF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS ,
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Jackson street, maintenance .......... wee  
Lincoln street, maintenance .......... wees wc  
Lyman street first level
canal bridge maintenANCE .....    wee  
ILyman street second level canal bridge
maintenance ...... weewt    
Lumber ........e  weeveebeen
Miscellaneous, general
repairs .......ee wee    
Macadam .......... tee   wees wee  
Macadam streets cleanING ww es weewee  
Maple street, maintenANC@  ... ee es wees  
Mosher street, mainten- !
AaNC@ ....    ees wee wee
New England Tel. &
Tel. Co., labor for.. ete    
Northampton street,
maintaining north of :
Morgan street ..... wee  
Nonotuck street, maintenance ....... wee vets  
Paved streets cleaning. weewees  
Printing and supplies.. wee we    
Paint ..........    |
l’ark street ,maintenANC@ ...     ewes wee  
Pleasant street improvements between  Lincoln and Dwight
streets ......   Lewes  
Pipe ..    ec c    Se   |
i leasant street, main- |
tentance .......... Lewes  
Prew John J., materials furnished ..... sete wee 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS II!
Materials
Work, Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Rollers, maintenance. wees  
South Hadley Falls

bridge, maintenance. seen  
Snow—removal from

streets and roads...   ae  
Snow—removal from

streets and roads

abutting street railway tracks ........ wee we    
Snow—removal from
bridge walks ........ Lewes wee 
Sargeant street first level canal bridge,

maintenance...... wees 
Sargeant street second

level canal bridge,

maintenance ...... wee  
Suffolk street, maintenANC@  ...    wee ae wees  
Street signs, erecting...   
Sargeant street, maintenance .......... tee
South street, maintenANC@  ...   ew wees ce    
Springfield road, maintenance .......... wee 
Summer street, maintenance .......... sete. wee  
Sand  ... we     we   wee
Teams, new  h).... L  wee 
Teams, maintenance..

(  h) ........... tee  
Tools, maintenance,

tools, implements .. tenes  
Tools, new .......... wees  
Timekeeper, salary (in

part) ......... weeLee  
Telephone service, instruments and  toll ,

charges: ..........  wee    
Trees ..........  wewee wea

Tarvia ............. Lees D  ae

Ii  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS

, Materials’

Work. Credit Balance. aud Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Vitrified brick ....:.. see   wee 
Water department, labor and materials.. ste    
West street, maintenANCE we.  ewecele   sete 
Wooden blocks ......  ae wees
Willimansett bridge ..  
Yard watchman salary     
Lard maintenance ... wee  

Totals ............  

Less credits .......  

Total expenditures 

PERMANENT HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.
Materials
Work. Credit Balance, and Supplies, Payrolls. Totals.
*Appleton street curbing, north side, west- ‘

erly from Bh

(cost of material

only) .........-.. wee  wee
Appleton street curbing, south side, from

a point ft. east

of Linden street to

Dwight street (cost

of material ....... wees we    
Asphalt blocks ...... wee wee we ee
Appleton street, relaying paving at Walnut

street ......    wee ae wee .ppleton street paving, ,

laying Hassam foundation .......... wee . 
Appleton street paving,

Bh street westerly

to Dwight  street;

Dwight street from

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.

Appleton’ street’ to

Pleasant, and Pleasant street between

Dwight street and

Appleton ......... vee    
Brick (local) ........ ww   ween  
Luffalo Steam’ Roller

Co., labor for, and

materials furnished wee wees  
Bh street macadamizing, from Appleton

street southerly to

Cabot street ...... we eae  
Kridge street macadam- .

izing, between Sargeant street and Jackson street ........ we 
Poston Maine Railroad, labor for....... ..... -. wee 
Curbing ............ wee wees Lees
*Cabot street paving, ;

from the west line of

High street to the

westerly line of Maple street, including

crosswalks on Maple

street ......... 
Cement; considerable

amount of the cost of

this material was paid

for from permanent

sewers, as it was designed at the beginning of the year to

use quantity of cement in that department. The cost of

this material is to be

charged to permanent

highway department

which will balance

this account ...... tees tees  

!
|
!
|
]
IIl  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS ]
; Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Coal .....  ew   wets wee 
City Mills Company...  wee  
Chestnut street macadamizing, Prospect
street southto Dwight
street ............    . 
Cherry street extension,
widening and eliminating grades ...... we    
Crosswalks, new, construction ......... wee  
Carmody, P. F. materials furnished ...... wane wees  
Castings ............ wee teetee eae
*Division street paving wee 
Emerson, E. E., materials furnished ...... weewee    
Fountain street, resurfacing ............  wee 
Gravel ............. wees wee wees
Cutters, new, construc- |
tiON  ...      seewees '
Gas and Electric department, labor for.   weeD. 
tlampden street, macad- |
amizing, between )
Nonotuck street and
Brooks avenue, not
including intersection
of Pleasant street...    
Migh street, maintenance of wood block
paving ........... teea. 
Hardware .......... Lee wee 
Holyoke Street Railway
Company, labor for. eae  
T.inden street macadamizing, betw’n Dwight
street and Hampden
street ......ee   bes  
Lumber ........+. -+ wee wee   wee
!
{

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS §
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Rayrolls. Totals.

Macadam ........... wee  
Main street wood block

paving, east side between the westerly .

rail of the easterly

track of the Holyoke )

Street Railway Company, and from the

north line of Spring

street to the north

line of Appleton

street ..  ... ewe   See 
Mosher street macadamizing, from Bowers

street to Bridge str’t wee . 
MiscellaneouS ....... wees  
New England Tel. &

Tel. Co., labor and

materials ......... reyes  
O'Connell Sons, Daniel,

materials .........- wee wee  
Oil...eeeewee   wee ae  
O'Reilly, P. T., materjalS ..  teee weeee  
Pleasant street improvements, completion of work started

in in improving

and widening Pleasant street between |

Lincoln street and

Dwight street ..... wee  
Pitch and tar........  wees  
Frew, John J., materials furnished ...... wets wee  
Pipe ..... .-.   teewee  
kollers, new ........ scenes wees  
Fkollers, maintenance wee 
Sand ........... -., tee   wee eae twee

}
\
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolle. Totals.
*Suffolk street paving,

between the easterly

line of High street

and Railroad street. see    
“*Shawmut Mining Co.,

freight paid on

Shawmut shale brick see aces  
South street macadamizing, between’ the

westerly line of Chapin square or Elm

street and Northampton street ........ sees  . 
Time keeper, salary... ce   wees  
Tools, new .......... wee  
Tools, maintenance ... wee wee  
Telephone charges,

(tolls) ........... wees wee  
Tarvia .........   wee 
**Brick (vitrified) ...  n wees
Wooden blocks ...... wee 
Warren Brothers Company, materials and

labor ......... Lecaee  
Yard maintenance .... wee |

Totals ............  

Less credits ....... :

Total cash expenditures 

*This does not include the cost of Shawmut shale vitrified paving
blocks used in laving the surface of these streets, which blocks were furrished by the Shawmut Mining Company under contract, and which have
not been paid for, but balance from this department has been carried
forward into the account of sufficiently large to meet the cost of the
biocks used in this work.

**There is balance due the Shawmut Mining Company for vitritied
shale paving blocks, and to meet this liability credit balance has been
carried forward into the account of  The account of vitrified brick
of necessity shows liability, as only the expenditures have been recorded.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  

PUBLIC WORKS CONTINGENT DEPARTMENT.

Printing, stationery, postage, general office and other ex-..
penses as paid from the above department........... 

SALARIES BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Payrolls.
Walsh M. FL Chairman........ .  ues 
Fotvin, Gilbert Jr... ...    cceu  
Chase, William Ac...  ...     ueues  
Perry, O. Cio    cnc s s  
sweeney, Mary All...    ween eens  
Cleary, Irene Plo...     sees )
Moise, Rose   cc  cec us  
Gilpatrick, FL Eo...        aes  
Winkler, Henry oo...  ...          euee  
Osborne, E. Mio...    ce   s  
Total oo...   ce     enteen 

|
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
SEWERS DEPARTMENT.
Materials
Work, Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Appleton street storm

water sewer, construction from Oak

street westerly to Sycamore street ..... wee 
Appleton street sewer

maintenance .,.... wees  
American Writing Paper

Co. Crocker Division,

labor for ......... Lees Lene  
Brick (local) ........ wee tee Lee  
Burkhardt, R. C., labor

fOr ...eeee weewee  
Catch basins, maintenANCE  ... eewee  
Castings ............ Lees wees  
Cement ....... we   wee ae wees
Catch basins, new—connecting with Appleton

street sewer west of

Oak street ........ Leas TOUS
Catch basins,new—construction of ....... wee BATS
Cabot street sewer, constructing from  east

line of Elm street

westerly to the alley |

WeSt co...eewee Leas ,
Callahan, John A., labor for ........... Lee Deen  
Cunningham, R. P., labor for ......... Lees Deen Vi.ce
Davis street sewer, con- .

structing west from  :

Elm street  ... we    
Duplex grates ....... wee     Lees
Dowd, D. J., labor for. tee.
Entrances to sewers .. Leemn |

REPORT OF, BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  g
Materials .
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls, Totals.
lm street sewer, from .
Davis street sewer
south to connect with
exisiting sewer ....   
Engineering department, labor for.....   wee ta  
Fairfield avenue sewer, ,
constructing from existing sewer to new
residence of T.. B.
O'Donnell ........ tee 
eras and Electric department, labor for.....    
Cauthier, Doryle, labor :
fOr ..... ce     weewee  
High street alley sewer,
west side, maintenANCE  ... keeewees  
Hardware ..........  wees sees   ee
Knightly, John F., labor for .......... wee 
Lumber ............ wee  
Lafond, Florence, labor
for .....  ...      wae 
tualiberte, Joseph, labor ,
for .......... tue  
[.aurel street sewer,
maintenance ...... wee  
Alansir, N. C., refund of .
sewer assess’t, Hitch- '
cock street ........ Lee  wee 
Mosher street sewer, extending east from No.
a  Leeee ene    
Miscellaneous .......   LS 
Macadam ........... wee wee we. wee ee
Pipe ............wee  
Prospect street sewer.
maintenance ...... wee AT  
Frinting and supplies...  tae  
Paint .............. wee vee  

  REPORT OF BUARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
 Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Hay rolls. Totals.
Sarazin, Wilfred, labor
| fOr wc  cere eens Seca  
Sowden, Joseph, labor
for ...ee   er eens wee  
Springfield road sewer,
constructing through
right of way granted
by A. A. Jones, from
the Connecticut river
toward the Springfi’d
road distance of  ft. (Not completed to Springfield
road) .--.seer rs wees  
Sycamore street sewer,
maintenance .....--. tees wees  
Sycamore street, constructing new sewer
from Sargeant street
northerly to Hampshire street .....-.-.-    
St. Jerome avenue sewer, constructing from
Dwight street south
to St. James avenue tee    
Toots, maintenance... wee  
Tools, NeW ..-++++-+ wee 
Thorpe avenue, repairing connection for .
the Ward property...     .a 
Thorpe avenue, new
sewer from Beacon
avenue sewer to
Ward property No. Das  
Walnut street system,
connecting concrete
block sewer with AKron pipe sewer at Appleton street ....-- Lee 
Walnut  street sewer
system, connecting
catch basins with.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS 
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.

north of Appleton

SPORE. "sca-ddol'oe Fates ie hee  
Walnut street system,
connecting catch basins with, south of

Appleton street .... er 
Walnut street sewer
system, general con) SBEPROCUION: woc Giese one Swe ean  
Water department, lame:  Vitis uas eae iba eM Kha Ries  

intenance .... or biged  

 mammals

 

 

 

 

‘otal.

 

 

 

  REPORT OF BUARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
 Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Hay rolls. Totals.
Sarazin, Wilfred, labor
| Co) wees  
Sowden, Joseph, labor |
for ... ee   wee 
Springfield road sewer,
constructing through
right of way granted
by A. A. Jones, from
the Connecticut river
toward the Springfi’d
road distance of "
  am (Sol Gol)
plete —- :
road |
Sycamce
mair
Sycam
strut |
from !
nort!
shire
St. Jer
er, C
Dwis
to S
Tools,
Tools, .
Thorpe
ing
the
Thorpe
sewe
aven
Wart
Walnut
conn
block
ron J
pleto
Walnut
SVvste
cate]

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
north of Appleton
Street ........ wee 
Walnut street system,
connecting catch basins with, south of
Appleton street .... wee  
Walnut street sewer
system, general con’ gtruction ..........     
Water department, labor for ..........-    wee  
Yard maintenance .... wee 
Yale street sewer, constructing from dingle
manhole at A. A.
Atherton’s residence wee 
Totals ..........  
Less credits .......  
Total cash expenditures 
PERMANENT SEWER DEPARTMENT.
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Total.
Appleton street storm
water sewer, from
Oak street west to
Sycamore street ... wee   
Appleton street sewer,
constructing from the
south side of Sycamore street west to
Dwight street ...... ce    
Brick .........- Le   wee wee
Catch basins, constructIng new .......... wee  
Cement (a large quantity of this cement
was turned over to )
the permanent highway and highway department for use

I
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls,  Totals.
therein) .......... wees  
Cabot street sewer, constructing from the
East line of Elm
street to the alley
next westerly ...... wee  
Castings ............eae wee     eae
Duplex grates ....... wae  ’ ae  
Hillside avenue sewer,
constructing from |
Cherry street to the |
Westfield road (a !
large part of this |
sewer wasconstructed |
in the fiscal year
 and for the to- |
tal cost the records
of that year should |
‘be consulted ...... wee  '
Hamilton street sewer, |
constructing west ;
from Canal street to '
the alley east of
Main street (a large
large part of this
sewer wasconstructed
during the fiscal year
 and for the total cost thereof the
records of that year
should be consulted. wee   
King street sewer, constructing between Hill- 
side avenue and Merrick avenue (a part
of this sewer wasconstructed during the |
fiscal year  and |
for the total cost
thereof the records of
that year should be
consulted ......... wee as |
I

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Miatcrials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Rayrolls. Totals.

Locust  str sewer,

constructing from Appleton street south to |

Essex street ....... an  
I.umber (a portion of

the lumber purchased

by this department

was turned over after

having been used for

spiling ...........    tee  
Merrick avenue sewer,

constructing between

the Westfield road .

and King street (a

part of this sewer was

constructed during

the fiscal year  ,

and for the total cost

thereof the  records

for that year should

be consulted ...... wee  
Miscellaneous account. wee 
Macadam ........... wee tee
Northampton, city of,

materials furnished. we   setae  
Pipe ....  ee   Lee 
sycamore street sewer,

constructing from

Sargeant str’t northerly to Hampshire

street (a part of the

cost of this sewer was |

paid for from the

sewer appropriation. wee    
Timekeeper, salary ... wee wee 
S.. James avenue sewer,

constructing westerly

from St. Jerome avenue to Lynwood avenue (a part of the

cost of this sewer

will be paid from the

appropriat'n of  ,

!
;
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS :
: Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
it not having been
completed till after
the close of this fiscal
year ......     wee we   b
St. Jerome avenue sewer, constructing  between Dwight street )
and St. James avenue
(see St. James).... tee 
Thorpe avenue sewer,
constructing from
Beacon avenue north- .
erly to the Ward
property at No. (a
part of the cost of
this sewer was paid
from the appropriation for sewers and
drains ..........-. teewee    
Tools, new ........--- LeeLee  
Tools, maintenance ... wee    
Walnut street sewer.
(This sewer is laid in
Prospect, Pine, Suff’k
and Walnut streets;
is of cement concrete
blocks, the sewer itself being laid under |
contract, the city doing all the necessary
excavat'g and filling.) ;
Am‘t paid contractor Lees Lee Le  
Materials paid for by
city .....   . 
(Work on this sewer
was commenced dur- .
ing the fiscal year of
 and for. the '
complete cost of same
the records for that
year should be consulted; also the year

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WURKS  
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Fayrolls. Totals,
under thedepartment
- of sewers and drains) :
Winter street sewer,
constructing from Appleton street to the
property of the Barlow Mfg. Co........ wee  
Winter street sewer,
constructing south of
Appleton street to a
point nearly opposite
the plant of the Eureka Ruling and Binding Co. (Almost the
entire cost of this ,
sewer was made from
the appropriation of ;
  .... ee. .   tee    
Yale street sewer, constructing from manhole in dingle east of
Pleasant street to
property of A. A. |
Atherton. (A part ,
of this sewer was paid
from the appropriation of sewers and
drains ......... .- ween 
Totals ............  
Less credits .......  
Total expenditures 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
SIDEWALK DEPARTMENT.
Materials
Work, Gredit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Allyn street, north side
between Waldo and
Howard streets .... Lee 
Arlington street, new
curbing east side at
premises of W. F. .
Lamb ............ wees  
Adams street, walks
maintenance ...... tenes wee  
Appleton street, north
side, setting ft. radius in. circle curbing easterly from
Pleasant street. Curbing delivered on
ground charged per- |
manent highways .. wetee 
Appleton street, south
side, new curbing
from point ft.
east of Linden street ,
to Dwight street. .
(Material used paid
for from permanent
highways ......... Lee tee  
Appleton street, walks
maintenance ...... veces  
Appleton street, new
curbing north side
from Bh street to
Locust street and from
Suffolk street westerly to property of Mrs.
‘Maurice Lynch. (Materials used paidfrom
permanent. highw’ys) LeeCees  
Allyn street, new curbing north side betw’n
Howard and Williams streets ...... tenes  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Matcrials
Work, Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals,
Appleton street, curbing
maintenance  in.) wee   wees  
Appleton street, new
walk, south side from
Bh street westerly.
(Preliminary work in
grading only) ..... Lee See    
Bridge street, new curbing. west side betw’n
Adams and Jackson
streetS ...........    
Bh street, walks
maintenance ...... wees  
Brown avenue, new
curbing  ft.) from .
a point nearly opposite Glenn street.... wee  
Rowers’ street; walks
maintenance ...... wee 
Bridge street, walks
maintemance...... wee 
Beacon avenue, new
walk north side from
Pleasant street west an wc    
Bh street, new walk
west side abutting
premises at No. wee    
Curbing ............ wees wee wees
Commercial street, new
curbing east side
abutting city yard.. tees  
City Hospital, labor and
materials used in repairing walks ...... wee  
Cabot, Samuel ....... wee   wee ae  
Cray, Mrs. Abbie T., labor for ........... Le    
Ciinton avenue, new
curbing west side ;
from Dwight street
northerly to connec  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS |
Materials |
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Yotals.

tion between Miller

avenue and Clinton

AVENUE .....        
Center street, walks

maintenance ...... wee 
Chestnut street, curbing

maintenance...... weewee 
Cabot street, walks

maintenance ...... we    
Canal street, walks

maintenance...... wee 
Carlton street; new

curbing  in.) south

side from Chapin

street to Russell terFACE .. ew    wee    
Carlton street, new

curbing, north side. wee  
Chestnut street, walks

maintenance...... re  
Charles street, new

curbing  in.) west

side between property

of J. C. Griffin and

Elmwood eng. house wee 
Commercial str’t, walks

maintenance ...... we 
Cook street, walks

maintenance ......   
Clinton avenue, new cement concrete walk .

west side Dwight

street northerly ... wee ae  
Cinder walks, maintenANC@  ...       wee wees  
Dwight street. walks

maintenance ...... wt    
Ellison Transfer Co.,

labor for ......... setewee 
Essex street, walks

maintenance ...... wee  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Materials
Work, Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
East street, walks
maintenance ...... wee  
Ely street, walks maintemance .......... we    
East Dwight  street,
walks maintenance. weer,  
Ely court, walks maintenance .......... wees  
Elm street, walks maintenance .......... wee 
Flm street, new curbing
(  in.) west side
from Sargeant street
| northerly ft.
abutting the property
of L. A. Lafrance...   
Elm street, new walk
west side from Sargeant street northerly
abutting property of
L. A. Lafrance..... tee 
Fountain street, walks
maintenance......   
High street, curbing
maintemance....... weewees  
Front street, walks
maintenance ...... wee 
Fairfield avenue, new :
curbing south side :
from Nonotuck street
easterly to alley.... Lee    
Fountain street, new
curbing  in.) south
‘ side Maple. street to
alley west ......-.    
Franklin street, new
walk south side abutting property of O. .
D. Allyn, between SyfAmore street and
. Magnolia avenue ... wee 

  REPORT OF BOARD UF PUBLIC WORKS
Matcrials
W ork. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Gas and Electric department, labor for..... wee  
Green, Patrick, labor
for and materials... ,  
High street, walks
maintenance ...... scene  
HWardware..........   ae weewee
Howard street, new
walk east side Allyn
street northerly .... wee    
‘Hampden street, walks
maintenance ...... wee  
Hampshire street, walks
maintenance ...... wee  
Hampden street, new
curbing  in.) north
side Pleasant street
to alley east.......   
Permanent Highways
department, miaterials furnished ...... an wee ae  
Hampshire street, new
curbing  in.) south .
side from Elm street
westerly .........- wees  
Houston, J. E.,labor for   wee    
Hampshire street, new
walk south side Elm
street westerly .... tee  
Hamilton street, walks
maintenance ...... wee    
Judd, C. H., labor for.. Das Deca |
“ohn street, walks main- \
tenance .......... wee 
Jackson street, walks Ot
maintenance ......    
Lyman street. walks |
maintenance ......   
Linden street, new
curbing  in.) east |
side south of Hamp- |
|

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Materials
Work, Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
den street ........ tee    
I-inden street, maintenance of curbing..... wee   
I.inden street, walks
maintenance ...... wee    
Lafrance, L. A., labor
fOT ff    wee  
Miscellaneous, general
maintenance of walks wee  
Main street, new curbing  in.) east side
part of Riverside
park ........    
Maple street, walks
maintenanze ...... Lee    
Main street, walks
maintenance ......    
Mosher street, walks
maintenance ...... veces  
Main street, curbing
maintenance ...... wee    
Merrick Lumber. Co.,
labor for ......... teewee o. 
Myrtie avenue, walks
maintenance ...... Lewes  ”
Maple street, west side
Fountain street south
side new walk abutting Polish parochial
, school ........... bees  
Maple street, east side,
changing corner
stone at Sargeant
street south side.... wees 
New England Tel. &
Tel. Co.. materials. Lee wees  
, Nonotuck street, new
walks Morgan street
morth ............ Lee  NS. 
Nonotuck  street, new
curbing  in.) Mor|
|
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORRS
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls, Totals.
gan street north.... wees  
Northampton street,
walks maintenance. wee 
Oak street, new curbing
(  in.) abutting part
of premises of A. A
Tyler ............ wee eae  
Oliver street, walks
maintenance ...... ran 
O’Donnell, T. B., labor
and materials ...... tees 
Pine street, new curbing  in.) between |
Hampden and Lyman
streets ...........  
Pleasant street, walks |
maintenance ...... wee   |
Sullivan Square park,
repairs to curbing
and maintenance of
walks .......... -. 
Fine street, walks maintenance .......... wee   |
Park street, walks
maintenance ...... tee $o. 
Pearl street, walks
maintenance ...... wee 
Pleasant street, walks
maintenance ...... wee  
Race street, walks
maintenance ...... wee  TLAT |
Ranger, Casper, labor
fOr fo.  ee   weeweeS. 
Ryan, John OD., labor |
fOr ...eeee weeS. 
Sidewalk materials ... Lee vet es Lee '
Snow removal  public
walks ......... ., ae  
Shea, Michael, labor for Lee  
Sanding sidewalks ... See eae QONLO  ;
Snow removal from |
bridges ........... Lee   tee DNA

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Materials
Work. Credit Balance. ana Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Snow removal park
walks ............ wees wees  
Snow plow operation. wee 
Snow removal private
walks ............  
Suffolk street, maintenance of curbing between Walnut and
Pine streets .......   
Still Isaac, labor for... weewee  
Suffolk street, maintenance of curbing east )
of Newton place.... wee 
Sidewalk plant ......   
Suffolk street, walks
majintenance...... wee 
; Suffolk street,new curbing  in.) north side
‘between Elmwood
school and First Baptist church ........ wees  
South street, new curbing  in.) south side
commencing from |
Chapin square westerly oe. eewe    
South street, curbing
maintenance and
changing line at
Brown avenue ..... wee  
South street, walks
maintenance ......—
Suffolk street, new cement concrete walk
north side between
Maple street and alley east .......... wee     
Sargeant, street, walks
maintenance ...... wee  
Summer street, walks
maintenance ...... wee  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
Materials
Work: Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Suffolk street, new walk |
north side from Rail- |
road street west.... see 
Suffolk street, new walk |
south side from Rail- |
road street west.... wee 
Tools, maintenance .. ,
Tools, new .......... wee,
Timekeeper salary ... weewee 
Taylor street,  walks ,
maintenance ...... seer  
Union street, walks 
maintenance ...... wet    
Walnut street, walks
maintenance ...... see  
West street, walks
maintenance ...... wees  
Washington avenue
walks maintenance wees !
Washington avenue
crossing maintenance see   |
Worcester place, walks :
maintenance ...... wee  
Walnut street, new
curbing  in.) east
side between Dwight
and Hampden streets wee ae :
West street, new curb |
ing west side com- !
mencing at Mosher
Street and running
northerly .........  
West street, new walk |
west side between ;
East Dwight and Samosett streets ..... tees  
West street, new walk
west side commenc- |
ing at Mosher street
and running north| erly co.cc  wees  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Materials
Work, Credit Balance and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.

Washington ave., new

curbing  in.) abutting premises of BW.

F. Dreikorn .......     
Yard miaintenance .... re wee 

Total .........  

Less credits .......  

Total cash expenditures 

STREET WATERING DEPARTMENT.

Wlectric sprinkler, operation of and maintenance of equipment

TOF ..   ecw cc eaee wee   
Hydrants for horse

sprinklers, maintenance ......     
Miscellaneous supplies

and tools .........  wee tee     ee
Newton, James H., use

of sprinkler ....... weetee    
Sprinklers, horse, operation for streets....    
Sprinklers, maitenance

and general repairing    

Totals ............  

Less credits .......  
Total expenditures 

OAKDALE NEW SCHOOL DEPARTMENT.

SS 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
WARD TWO (MORGAN) SCHOOL DEPARTMENT. .
Materials |
Description. Credits. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals. |
Cleaning building after
completion ........ ae 
Ellsworth, EB. A., fees.. seen ce    
General construction .. tee 
Grading grounds,, constructing walks and
concrete work ..... wee  
Heating and ventilating
system ........... Levees   ,
Lighting (gas) fixtures Lee   ae |
Miscellaneous (supplies
for concrete work)..  we   wee tee  
Plumbing and gas pipINZ..ee es tee ae wee 
Plumbing (excavating
for by department).. wees wee  
School department, expenditures by ..... wee   wee    
Totals (gross) ....  
Less credits .......  
]
$ 

RBPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
HIGHLAND ENGINE HOUSE ADDITION.
Materials
Work, Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Cement ............  wee wee wee  
J. H. Fowles......... weewee  
General construction .. we    wee   
Heating, enlargement
to and repairing existing system ...... weewee 
Lighting equipment, 
wiring and fixtures.. weewee  
Oakes, R. T.......... **  re wee ae
Plumbing, repairing existing system, additions to new sewer ;
connections .......  
Pipe ..... ce    ee, wee    . wee  
Totals (gross) ....  
Less credits ....... ..  
Net expenditures ..  
JACKSON STREET UNDERPASS. Materials
Account. Credits. and Supplies. Payroils. Charges.
Excavating for separa- co
tion of grades Jack- Lk ,
son street, on the |
Holyoke Westfield
tracks, and for abut- :
ment piers and retaining walls ...... wee wee ees  
Cement ............  wee ae teevee ee
Sewer maintenance,
lowering manholeand me 
catch basin at Commercial street ..... wee 
Water pipe, maintenance, replacing pipe
*Balance for to be deducted from General Construction Account.
**Balance for to be deducted from Lighting Equipment Account.

|
|
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
Materials
Account. Credit Balance. and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
: in lowering grade on .
Commercial  street
(Water department) wee wee 
Totals ...........   |
Less credits .......  
Total expenditures 
CITY YARD BUILDING DEPARTMENT. ,
Materials |
‘ Account. Credit Balance, and Supplies. Payrolls. Totals.
Brick .....    weeLee Lee  
Cement ......... re Leewee
Castings ........cce.  wees weLee eae
Excavating, grading,
and concrete work.. wee ae 
Elevator ............ re  
Equipment of building.  wee 
General construction .. wee    
WWJardware ..........  ween weewee  
Jones, L. F., contractor  weete  
Macadam ...........- tenes weetee ee
Plans and specifications vce   
Pipe ...  ec wetweewee  
Plumbing ...........    
Removing, repairing,
and additions to old
buildings ......... wee  
Siding, tracks of New
York, New Haven &
Hartford railroad ..  wee:
Sullivan Carmody... sete 
Sand ....cc  ves wee re we ee
Salem Elevator Works   wee   wee  
' Watchman and insp’tor wees wee  
Water department ... wee   wee    
Totals ..........  
Less credits .......  
Total cash expenditures 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
SEWER ASSESSMENT.
Account of Levy. Receipts. Sewer Depurtmeat.
  Loe eeeeees  
SS  
|S  
W  LL      ————. 
SIDEWALK ASSESSMENT.
Transferred to
Account of Levy. Receipts. Sidewalk Department.
W OL wee          §$  
WQO  Lee     
DS Sa          ti
        aes  
—  


ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
RELIEF DEPARTMENT.

To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.
In accordance with the charter and the revised ordinance of the city, the Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit their thirty-third annual report, it being for the fiscal
year ending November .
OUT-DOOR RELIEF.
The number of persons aided during the year was  ,
representing families, at an expense of .
This department also furnished burial for bodies, at
an expense of .
The total expense for the year, for all classes of partial
and full support, has been as follows:
City, out-door poor............... 
City, sick at hospital..............  
City, burial .............    
————§—  |
State, out-door poor............... 
State, sick at hospital............  
State, burials .........  ...   
————-.  
Cities and towns, out-door poor....  
Cities and towns, sick at hospital...  
Cities and towns, burial...........  
——————. s-  

  REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
Overseers of the Poor.....,....... 
Salaries co...          ee) OV ELDOI
—————  
City Farm ........... cc       
Total expenses ..........        ees 
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation ................... 
Receipts from all sources........... 
Additional appropriation ...........  
————§— 
Following is detailed statement of expenses outside
of the City Farm:

REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
| (pS SERS SRRRBRR  ].
  &®  &§&
met esee  §
| BoofTeea fess, a

x |/stonnansa] vo) BE iig $$: :; aS rs

o |

S| ‘Prey SPathl:

oy saijddng ayo  fF  (seats g

Sg de

a Ciidsopy ye sesesea ;,  

| ag) BE EES SESE SERS

sj aged SEER SERRE REE FG
a
 widwmy     
Vi me |g hese sas asea g
@ Se |

S um 
ras my, ssedssdsee|
@m ;

Ci gm |S  

||  “AF RSSBSRRARR BAB F
paw euoyds| e

ve es 

  ws |S RRR RRR ARETE E

ra || aonwodsuery  

sé || Paw sysre Pp PRS Re Ras

See    fe  S

  Usemeaeerimng RRO fe  

‘Saal FS &/| 

Z|, savwen aRER SRE RSSE ESS) FE

)  man @h  
oOo .

: wim, |S   eas Baal  

|  SBE Seles

N ‘ang geger daly

a “

i  

  ry ‘ asega s

 

RP (S  es ge ss

 foo]

A me ZR ESEESSRARE EF:
: “|
| |

Sg ses SER Pe eda fk
|      
|

|
|
  REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
AMOUNTS APPROVED, OUT-DOOR POOR, YEAR  .
Val Moquin ........        cet 
O. N. Chaput.......  ...            
J. F. Sullivan .......  ...   es  
L. J. Becker. .........    cc    tees  
Perreault Co... ...     cc ce      
A. H. Bray...     cc ec  ce ees  
Edmund Daviau .........     wees  
Thomas Dillon .......  ...  eens  
Joseph Authier .........  eens  
Thomas Begley ..........    cc s !
John J. Prew.....         ees  
Joseph Langlois ........  ... ce lee      
William Bialkosky ..............     |
Fitzgerald Co...        |
Holvoke Coal and Wood Co............ ...... |
John O'Connell  ... ee    
T. C. Marra .....       
F. Goddu  ...     cc   eens  
Albert Pueschel .........  ...       
Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co..................  
John Cesasz  ... cc      ees  
John J. Byrnes... ...  ...    
Ovilla Poutro oo.  ...      
John Wolfenden .............  ee    
Mrs. Philip Tureotte ............. ce  ,  
S. Rowllard  ...  ...  ee   ,
C. L. Nadeau oo...  ce e   ,
W. FL Avery oo... cc     ce        
C. Blais wo...    ees  
A. Le. March  ...  cc     
W. OT. Wilson  ... cc     .
Roy W. Bates...  ...     ences  
Hlenry Gregoire oo...   ce       
Roy Desnoyers .......  cc         
Morgan, Crossman Cor... cc... ce     .

REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
Town of Montague.............cc    s  
Mass. Hospital for Epileptics................  
E. H. Friedrich ........  ... cc    
Curran Bros. ...........       neces  
E. Benard Som........   ce      
Couture Harnish..............      
M. J. Laporte ............          
Joseph Cote  ... ..         neces  )
, Transcript Publishing Co..................  
Charles Rhaume ............... cc    )
Max Abrahamson ............. eces  
James Griffin ..........        eens  )
Mrs. Celanire Brouillet....................  
Union Coal and Wood Co................. 
J. H. Fitzsimmons...................    
F. Menard ..........        eens  
P. D. Moran.......  ... cc          
Peter Juraz  ...           ees  
W. T. Burns Shoe Co.................  ewes  
J. B. Archambault..................      
J. F. Kennedy.........  ... cc    eens  
M. Kaplinsky ...........  ... cc     eens  
J. F. Coughlin.........  ...       
MeAuslan Wakelin...............      
Sisters at Mt. St. Vincent....................  
Louis Bibeau .......  ...   ce        
A. Ferguson ..........  c.      
Sears Co... .. cc          
J. R. Smith... oe  
John D. Leary.........  ...      
Jacob Solon  ...   ee  
W. B. Whiting Coal Co...................  
J. A. Peltier.... ce    
T. J. Dillon...     
D. M. Foleyv....  ...    
Louis A. Lafrance ............       

  REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
Timothy Collins  ...  ...    ce   
M. J. Moriarty...  ...          
Timothy Donoghue ...........      
M. J. Doyle...  ...   cc    eens  
, A. D. Durocher............  ...       
Sisters at Brightside ...............aee  
Russell Bros.  ...  ...         
Max Tiedman .......  ...          
New England Telephone Co..................  
Hugh Donoghue ...........  ...   
George N. Frissell ............c    
R. P. Mereure.....  ...      
Thomas J. Griffin...  ... cc.      
A. Steiger Cow...     eens  
J. H. Fleury...  ... ce      
Morin Bros. ....... cc  ecce     eens  
Thomas Falvey ..........       
House of Providence Hospital................  
Holvoke City Hospital.......................  Thomas F. Connor Co.......  ... cc      
A. R. Vincent... ..  ...       
Millane Bros. ...........  ce    eens  
C. M. Porter...  ...         
A. F. Glesmann.......  ... ce eens  
M. M. Murphy... ....  ...     
Flynn Drug Co... ..      
Dr. George D. Henderson................ 
John Tkeinritz Son... ....        
Riverside Pharmacy ............. cec   
City of Springfield. .......  ... ee    
Forbes State Hospital..........  ...   
Masse Bros.  ...    eens  
Thomas S. Childs .........  ce        
Mrs. B. J. Grady...      
C. FL Glidden...  ... ce cc      
Overseers of the Poor...  ... e    

REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
— D. PY Sullivan... occ      
C. E. Ball Drug Co.....  ... ce       
F. Donoghue ..........    ee    
August Wildner ............  ...    ewes  
City of Worcester ........  ...      :  
City of Chicopee... ....    ce cc     ene  
Gilbert Potvin .......  ...      
J. R. MeNally.........   cc     
E. M. Curran... ..  ...         
J. C. Tormey... .. cc   cc cc    eens  
City of Medford. ......  ... cc  es  
M. J. Coffey... cc   ce ce       
E. M. Greeley .....  ...            
Dufault Chaille...................... 
H. L. Mousette......  ...      ec    
Edward O’Connor Co...........   
H. Marcotte ..  ...      cc ec     
R. W. Sanderson. .......  ...       .
W. N. Howes ........         teense  
H. G. Smith. ........  ...        
Dr. Louis EE. Clarke......  ...    ees  
A. F. GingraS  ...     eens  
D. P. Hartnett......  ... ene  
P. A. Mahoney...........  ...     
W. F. Grady...    e    
Cleveland’s Pharmacy ............... 
Price Lee Co... ...     eens  
Michael Lynch ..........         
Mrs. Eugene Moriarty.............      
John Sobon ....... cc cc    eens  
Fay Shumway ...........  ...       
A. L. Coderre.....  ...          
John B. Shea... ...    ce    
Smith Drug Co. .......       
Arthur Hebert .......  ... cc   ee    
City of Lowell  ...  ...        

  REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR

John B. Beauvais ...........        
John Ahern .......... cc   ec  nee  
S. Davis Son.......    ec      
Joseph Quinn ........      ees  
Anthony Clotsk .........  ...     eens  
C. R. Alger .....      eens  
A. St. George... ....      ce eens  
National Blank Book Co.....................  
George Kraski .............     eens  
Alfred Therrien ...........  ...     ween  
James P. Hobart ............  cc      
J. J. Craven oo...       ce   ete    
Lorenzo D. Ally ........ cc cc ees  
Dr. P. T. O’Reilly............  ... cc    
Charles U. Roy ......... cc        
A. Levine CO... ....      eens  
D. Rubin ......         
Shea McKenna .............      eens  
Banas Dubiel .............      ees  
Lavoie Domingue .............    eens  
Johnson, Butler Co......... ees  
Commonwealth of Massacuhsetts ............  
Cty of Boston  ...  ...        
George N. Jefferson ...........      
Dennis Chaille  ...  ... cc ccce  —
Joseph Dupont  ...  ...     es  
Joseph A. O'Donnell .............  ...     
Doyle O’Connor ...........     ees  
T. FP. Ryan  ...      
M. Callahan  ...  ...      
City of Northampton ...........  ...      
City of Fall River ............... ee    
Lyneh Smith .......  ...      
Mrs. Rosa Wruck ..........     
F.S. Webster oo...  ... cc  cc         
Bridget Sheehan o.oo...    cc  eens 

REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  

William Murray ..........    s  
H. J. Glutney  ...   cc  eens  
Dr. William Teahan ............ cc cns  
George EH. Hill  ... cc     ene  
Hermidas Perrault .............     
P. Caisse  ...      cect    
HE. E. Bryant .....   cc cc     
A. Symasko  ...  eet    
City of Chelsea oo... ..        eens  
Town of West Springfield...................  
Samuel Solins  .....  ... cc  e      
John Doyle ....... cc       
John F. Quigley oo... tenes  
Charles E. Bardwell ..............    
| N. Mercure .........     ec   ce   teens  
City Market Co.  ... .. cc            
Bibeau Coal Co. oo... cc eens  
L. J. Laporte... ....  ec     
George F. O’Connor .....  ... ee   
John Tilley... ...c cc    
D. F. Donoghue ...........       
Smith Bros. wo... cc ce e tetees  
P. Drapean  ... ...        
Mrs. Patrick Sullivan ..............  
A. C. Menard .........  ...   ce  ees  
T. W. Cavanangh ........  ...    ees  
Wells Lathrop .......  ...           
E. G. Couture .......   ens  
Mrs. Michael O’Connor .............. 
Joseph Beauchamp .........    
Elmwood Pharmacy ..............       
Livermore Martin ......... ...  ewe    
George G. Ware ......  ...  ee ees  
A. Zimmerman  ...  ... ce    
Goodall Drug Co. .....  ... cc ec   
Frank Stein ..  ...  ce      
Val Ducharme .........  ... ce      
Peter Marsh  ...       eens  

  REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
SICK POOR.
; The expense at the hospitals for the care and board of
the sick poor was .
The item for medicine for the patients at home and attended by the City Physician was .
CHILDREN.
This Department provided for four orphans at the various Sisters’ Institutions at an expense of .
CITY FARM.
The number of inmates cared for during the year was
as follows:
Number of inmates Dee. ..........  
Number admitted during the year........  
——.  
Number discharged and died.............  
Number remaining November ....  
HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT.
Of the above number the following were admitted to
the hospital department:
Number of sick in hospital Dee. ...  
Number admitted during the vear........  
— |
Number discharged and died............  d
Number remaining November ....  
The total number of patients receiving hospital treat- |
ment during the year was as follows:

REPORT UF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR Ist
Males  ...     cc nce een    
Females ......  ...       ce ete teen eens  
Of the above number were sent to the hospital
direct, the remainder were inmates of the Institution.
The duration of treatment aggregated weeks, or
an average of weeks and days for each patient.
Following is detailed statement of expenses at the
City Farm:

  REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
FSeRERERBZBERSES BB
i) 
we ‘EPEGEREGGOGS :
a
pomtmarg  iils
rs re
. [iemomomen |
  jmp)  OO tC be  
ns Pears og  as Sa  
a ee
. en ”*   wee, |P SUTELPEE EEE

 put Zurs ys  SBRRRARBBESERKR EF! F

P satiddns  *

 wm ie

, xy eyaesoosaieig ,” Bo: pO 
| +: ee: Do}

| (Bees eeraggsee es

. ré Se ve]

 mens ESEPFTSS ESE E

“i |) wqunppr |S RE ERE SRS ERTS

an ait psy le Ras |

Z\————-s-ege EE 

So o™mumg Rak aeRO Rg

Pf

a  ES

Cy spoon esaoyy ob 

OF ss

as (SSSR  CTE TS

 spontiq RSET FP FB PF Pe FB
go) se

S| €S RR RE RSS SARS

a jmope gz BP SE SRASR |

c us

 ——— OOS a” Oe ID SD eS mS”  See

dso ESS RR FRREZT' SE

- wma SR EERE SES ERE |Z

A Pa supe Oe 

go Pewee    

a peag  |

—e ae :

x FESR FSS

a wn -

Sims GARR SHER RARE] §
| OF"  
os RR EERE SERS ER

won BRR ER ERR ERE E.
a a
seghiziasiael |

; A@ASkeeae zest BER ,

REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
AMOUNTS APPROVED, CITY FARM, YEAR  .
James F. Reidy  ...  ...          

Dr. J. H. Potts...  ...       
James Clark .........         eens  
A. Steiger Co...   ce   te O+
W. T. Burns Shoe Co...........      
P. Donegan ......... cc  tee     nees  
G. E. Russell ..  ... oO  
C. G. Burnham.........  ... ee ees  
Holyoke Steam Boiler Works................  
New England Telephone Co.................  
Dovle O’Comnmor ..........         
Geary, Sullivan Co....... cc cc ee eens  
Roland T. Oakes Co......... cc  ee ees ,
Holyoke Paint and Wall Paper Co...........  
Thomas F. Conmor ...........    
Millane Bros. .....  ...        tenes  
M. M. Murphy .........       
Rev. John B. Daley............... ee    
City Mills Co. oo...      
MeLean Bros. .......  ... cc ec     ees  
M. Callahan Co. ........       eens  
J. J. Bagan  ...       
D. J. O’Brien Co... .. ce    
- P. J. Murray Co... ce cc    
MeAuslan Wakelin ................... 
American Soap and Washoline Co............  
Oakdale Mfg. Co. .....  cc    
F.C. Small Co...      
Dr. T. J. Shinkwin.........  ... cc   
M. J. Bowler  ...            
Casper Ranger ....... ... cc      ees  
Mrs. James Shea .........  c. ce        
Maurice Curran .........  ...        
B. F. Bigelow .....  ...       
Hugh Donoghue .................       

  REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
J. B. Archambault .........  ...    
Frank L. Greaney .............cc      
Dietz Baking Co. ........ cc  ce   eens  
Kaffir Cigar Co.  ... .. ee    
Moses Fairfield ...........  ... ee    
Bart S. Casey .......       ete eens  
C. M. Donnelly ........  ... cc         
John O’Conngll .......       
Russell Bros. .......... cc  ee     
Daniel Leahy ...........     eens  
H. L. Handy .........     eens  
C. W. Rackliffe .........    
Thomas M. Cleary ..............      
John O'Shea .......        
Sullivan Carmody ...........  cc    
M. J. Doyle Printing Co.............     
P. L. Rider  ...       
T. F. Kilbride .......... cc   ees  
' Daniel P. Hartnett ........  ...     
Jeremiah J. Slattery ........      
Prentiss, Brooks Co...........    eens  
FP. L. Clapp on...      ee   ees  
Holyoke Broom Works ..............  
George H. Hill .........................  
Lynch Smith .........  ... ee    
Napoleon Bail .........      
Price, Lee Co...       
M. A. Allen Son... .....  ee    
M. J. Moriarty .........   cc        
C. B. Dolge Chemical Co......... ........ 
W. PF. Grady  ...     e eens  
Rochester Germicide Co. ...........      
Norman C. Haynor .......  ... ee    
Daniel Kavanaugh .............    
Maplewood Mills  ...  ...       
T. C. Cavanaugh  ... .. cc   ees  

REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR .

J. Ro. Smith ...  ec cc ce     
M. Hicks ...........      cette ene  
Joseph Durocher .......... cc    

R. R. Nickerson ...........cc  ec  ees  

G. J. Prew Co...... cc       
Leonard A. Treat .........   ce    ees  
Jeremiah Shea ......... cc  es  
Sparrow McTigue ............... ge  
Dr. Adolph Franz .............        
Hugh Donoghue ............. cc       
Peter Freeman .............      wees  
Baker-Vawter Co. .......... cc     |
Jo W. dolly...    een 
Fitzgerald Co. .....    eens  
Whiting Farm ..............c      eens  
Goodall Drug Co. .........      
James Griffin .........  c.       

D. M. Foley .........    ec     eens .
J. Russell Co... ...          es  
W. H. Abbott ........  e  
Thomas J. Griffin .......  ...       

D. P. Sullivan .........  ...      

T. J. Lynch  ...       eens  

N. C. Cook .....       teens  
West Disinfecting Co. .........  ...   es  
Conn. Valley Lumber Co.....................  
George Ferris ..........          

M. O’Connor ......  ... cc        

C. E. Ball Drug Co.............      
Gallivan Bros. ...........    ce   

F. W. Woolworth Co......................  
Chase Cooledge ................... D
Sutherland Co. .........       
Cornelius Kennedy ................     
O’Donnell Family Shoe Store................  
Dr. Louis H. Clarke.........................  

 REPORT OF THE OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
John H. Delaney ..............       
J. F. Kennedy .......... cc   cc    ,
RECAPITULATION.
Out-door poor city ............... 
Out-door poor, state ..............  
Out-door poor, cities and towns....  
Overseers of the Poor.............  
City farm .............. -+  
———— 
CR. ,
By amount charged to state........ 
By amount charged cities and towns  
, By visits of City Physician, state...  
By visits of City Physician, cities
and tOWnS ...........cc   es  
By cash from state................  
By cash from cities and towns......  
By cash received from board of individuals .....  ...  ...    
By reimbursement from board of
epileptics ........     
By eash from sale of horses........  
Farm produce ............  
——§—  
Net expense to city for year  ............ 
Respectfully submitted,
PATRICK J. DOWD,
WILLIAM J. DILLON,
JOHN T. SHEEHAN,
Overseers of the Poor.
JAMES T. CUNNINGHAM,
City Almoner.
Submitted December .

ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
SCHOOL DEPARTMENT
OF THE |
CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOV.  ,
 
oe )
eos
Z/MINE. DS
HoLyokeE, Mass.
M. J. Dove is PRINTING Co.
 .

Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
Office in Elm Street Building.
Hon. NATHAN P. AVERY, Mayor.
ODILON Z. E. CHAREST,
Chairman.
JAMES J. O’DONNELL,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.
. Term expires Jan.
At Large JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,  .—  
or  DR. GEORGE H. CLARK,  
Ward  —DANIEL M. FOLEY, whe)  
Ward  —ODILON Z. E. CIJAREST,  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH,  
Ward  +—JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN,  
Ward —JAMES T. MeTIGUE,  
Ward  —EDWARD J. GORMAN, 
Ward  —FREDERICK S. WEBBER, 

Holyoke School Committee
| ORGANIZATION FOR  .
Office in Elm Street Building.
Regular Meeting, First Monday in the Month. |
(January, First Tuesday.)
Hon. NATHAN P. AVERY, Mayor.
ODILON Z. E. CHAREST, :
Chairman.
JAMES J. O’DONNELL,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.
Term expires Jan.
At Ler THOMAS H. SEARS, ... (‘ 
ars* DR. GEORGE H. CLARK, :
Ward  —DANIEL M. FOLEY, re )
Ward  —ODILON Z. E. CHAREST, —: 
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH, .. ..  
Ward  —JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN,  
Ward  —DANIEL F. WATERS, .—— ..—s‘ 
Ward  —EDWARD J. GORMAN, ..  
Ward  —FREDERICK  S. WEBBER, 

Standing Committees for  

High School—Messrs. Clark, Foley, Webber.

First District— Messrs. Sullivan, Webber, Sears.

Second District—Messrs. Gorman, Clark, Baush.

Third District—Messrs.Waters, Foley, Charest.

Rules—Messrs. Webber, Charest, Foley.

Finance and Accounts Messrs. Sullivan, Webber,
Clark. |

Salaries—Messrs. Sears, Baush, Waters.

Text Books and Oourses of Study—Messrs. Clark, Sullivan, Baush.

Printing and Supplies— Messrs. Gorman, Sears. Sullivan.

Music— Messrs. Baush, Webber, Waters.

Drawing and Writing—Messrs. Waters, Baush, Charest.

Health and Physical Culture—Messrs. Clark. Foley,
Gorman.

Evening Schools—Messrs. Foley, Sears, Charest.

Attendance, Census and Truancy—wMessrs. Foley, Sears,
Gorman.

| Calendar
SCHOOL YEAR  .
Winter Term............... begins January .
Winter Term...............ends March .
Summer Term.............. begins April .
Summer Term..............ends June .
Fall Term..................begins August .
Fall Term..................ends December .
Winter Term............... begins January .
VACATIONS.

March to April inclusive.

June to August inclusive.

December to January inclusive.

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, Fourth of July, Washington’s Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day with
the. day following, New Year’s Day, Patriot’s Day, and
Labor’s Holiday.

Regular Meetings of the School Committee—The first
Monday evening in each month at eight o’clock; except in
January, when the monthly meeting will be the first Tuesday.

Accounting Committee’s Meetings—Upon notification.

REPORT OF
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

The School Committee respectfully submit their annual
report for the year  .

The School Department has finished another prosperous
year, during which the high standing of the public schools
of this city has been well maintained. WUolvoke’s great educational mill has been running smoothly and effectually,
and the brand of future citizenship that is being turned
out is just cause for pride on the part of our citizens. The
sacred responsibility of directing the education of the youth
is fully appreciated by your Committee and their every act
has been to improve the character of our schools and promote the interests of the children.

In the schools of Holyoke today may be found body
of teachers the personnel and ability of which is, in the main,
excellent. Probably there are no persons in our community
who exert so great an influence as they upon the child’s
character and ideals, vet the public appreciation has never
been commensurate with their worth. During the year the
Committee voted to ade to the request of the teachers of
the city by granting them an increase of fifty dollars per
vear, commencing December Ist,  In doing this the
Committee feel that they have the support of the best public
sentiment. During the past few years teachers have been
obliged to meet the increased cost of living and the higher
requirements for professional training upon practically inREPORT UF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
adequate salary. The increase, which may be regarded as
a generous one under the present unfavorable financial conditions, is highly satisfactory to the teachers.

Under ordinary conditions our school enrolment of last
year would be very high, especially in the congested districts of Wards One and Four, were it not for the fact that
in both these districts new parochial schools were opened
in September. The majority of the pupils of those new
schools were drawn from the public schools and as result
normal conditions are reported at the North Chestnut Street
and West Street Schools. In the South Holyoke district
the new Morgan School was opened in April and at the end
of the school term just closed the principal reports that the
new building has proven admirably adapted for the purposes and he is well pleased with its arrangement and working. We are glad to state that the situation, which has been
acute in this section for many years, is finally relieved.

The Sargeant Street building is now undergoing extensive repairs, which will help to put this building in the
class of up-to-date school houses. During the year many
valuable improvements have been made by the Board of
Public Works in the different schools, chief among which
has been the repainting of the whole interior of the Ewingville, the North Chestnut Street, the Springdale and the
Park Street buildings. This improvement was of great
merit and has given the schools purer and more wholesome
atmosphere. We would recommend that the South Chestnut
Street and Highland buildings receive similar treatment,
as their needs in this particular are not less worthy of attention than were those of the above mentioned schools.

At the Elmwood School there is an urgent need of hall.
without which no sehool of sixteen rooms or even less. is
complete. The Board would recommend that steps be taken
at once to give to Elmwood what they are certainly entitled
to and what the best school work requires.

At the Nonotuck Street School there is but one exit.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

which we feel would prove fatally inadequate in case of fire
during school hours. Where the safety of the children is
menaced by school conditions there is no question about the
attitude of this Board, which is for immediate action to the
end that the danger be removed.

At the Elm Street School better and increased lighting
fixtures are required if the children’s sight is to be protected.
There should also be additional drinking fountains placed
in the building.

An emergency toilet on the third floor of the Springdale
building would be valuable, advantageous improvement.

At the Hamilton Street School distinct improvement
could be effected by replacing the upper part of the classroom doors by glass and thus remove the sepulchral gloom

, of the corridors.

) The sanitaries at the West Street, Appleton Street and
Elmwood Schools should be repaired and altered or removed.
Defective sanitaries have no place in any school house.

Such, in brief, is the list of major needs of the school
buildings of Holyoke which we trust the Board of Public
Works will fill during the coming year.

We have again to call the attention of the Mayor and
City Government to the fact that nothing has as yet been

| done toward providing necessary accommodation for Oakdale and North Chestnut Street. In the former it is the
utter lack of accommodation, while in the latter place the
need is for new school to take the place of the present out
of date building. The School Committee, which has already
gone on record in this matter several times in the past, feel
that some definite action should be taken by the incoming
City Government to improve these trying conditions of our
publie schools, and will not agree to any poliey of inaction
in this matter.

In all lines of edueational effort the year of has
been one of steady progress. The Department of Domestic
Science and Manual Training has become notable feature

, REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
of our school work and its important place in the education
of the youth of today is readily acknowledged by all good
school authorities.

The evening schools are growing each year, especially
in the number of those who attend by choice and not by
legal requirement. It is gratifying to observe the large
number who are taking advantage of the opportunities of
the Evening Grammar and High School. This branch of
school work is one worthy of the School Board’s best effort.

During the year irregularities were discovered in one
department, but vigorous and salutary measures were at
once originated by the School Board to prevent recurrence
in this or any department connected with the schools and ,
we believe the system will be all the healthier for these dis- 
coveries.

In report of this character we will state but the totals
involved in financing our department. For the year  
the appropriation and transfers were the receipts additional transfer to meet overdraft
# making total income of as well as a
total expenditure of this same amount. But provision must
be made for the fiscal year of  not only for the growing
school activities, but also for the additional salaries referred
to in another part of this report. As this matter will be
handled specially by the Committee on Finance, we do not
deem it our duty to go into it here in detail, only to say that
the proportion of money spent by the City of Holyoke itself
for its schools is as little as any of the manufacturing cities
in the state. detailed schedule for all of the moneys
received and spent will be found in the printed report.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN,
AUGUST BAUSH,
FRED S. WEBBER,
Committee on Annual Report.

REPORT OF THE

Superintendent and Secretary.
To the School Committee of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN:—]I take great pleasure in offering for your
consideration the forty-fourth annual report of the Superintendent of Schools.

a, VARYING CONDITIONS.

There have been numerous changes of the school pupils
and school buildings during this past school year.

In the South Ilolyoke district the new Morgan School,
with its full complement of teachers and school equipment,
has been great rehef to the former congested conditions im
that quarter. The possession of this building helps both on
the grounds of economy and also as safeguard against
dangers, affording increased and better school facilities; it
has enabled the school authorities to abandon those outside rooms in that district, which at their best are poorly
adapted to school purposes as well as source of increased
expense,

The former Park Street School teachers, with their
principal, Miss Jennie E. Scolley, were transferred to the
Hamilton Street School, while Miss Emily L. Curran, formerly principal of the Sargeant Street School, was transferred
to the Park Street) School.

Other transfers will soon be realized, and there is good
prospect of well heated, well ventilated, sanitary building
in the place of the present Sargeant Street School building.
Active steps are already being taken to bring about those
results,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

Again, there has been distinct change in Ward One.
The Bridge Street School, four rooms of which were form- .
erly used, has been vacated as public sehool and the
building itself and the grounds have been sold by the city
authorities. The former pupils have for the most part been
transferred to the-West Street School. However, the time
is not far off when, according to the normal growth of the
school population in that district, it will be necessary to
have increased accommodations in Ward One, but the city
is fortunate in having the East Dwight Street School which
can be put in proper physical condition within reasonable
length of time.

Although much has been done to beautify and make

Wholesome the present North Chestnut Street School, vet it
| is unfit for proper school building.

The Board of Publie Works, during the year, has made
many improvements in the Nonotuck Street, Ewingvi!le,
North Chestnut Street and Springdale Schools. Many things,
however, remain to be done. The Elmwood School could
have its sphere of usefulness greatly increased if it had a
public hall. The sanitaries should be loeated outside of
the building proper. and the unpleasant and unhealthy odor
that is driven through the main corridor could be thus done
away with, as well as inereased room capacity could be
given to that building now erowded with pupils. ,

EVENING SCHOOLS.

The interest in the evening school has been continued,
and even increased. as the numbers in constant attendance
will attest. The present evening school has grown beyond
the stage of experiment and entered into field of edueation and utility beyond any question. The personnel of
the evening school teaching foree has been held up to as
high standard as could be obtained. preference being given
to normal school and college graduates before all others.
The advantage to be gained from such selection must
appeal to every disinterested person.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE 

The evening grammar school has been more largely
attended than ever before, and the evening high school has
had more constant attendance. The curriculum is composed of bookkeeping. typewriting, shorthand, advanced
English, modern languages, algebra, mechanical drawing,
with its work so arranged that these subjects will be inereased or decreased accommodating themselves to the
needs of the pupils. The general work of the evening
schools is highly satisfactory.
TEACHERS’ INSTITUTE.

Preparation is already well in hand for conducting a
Teachers’ Institute, which is intended to be not only one of
theory but of practice. list of eminent speakers and instructors, both national and state. has been selected and we
can with every confidence look forward to an institute whose
direct influence on the teaching force of our city ought to
be strong. The State Secretary of Education, Mr. George
H. Martin, has kindly agreed to be present, and he has at
all other times shown disposition to be of assistance to
our city.

TEACHERS.

If reference is made to the annual reports of the vears
  and you will there find means which have believed most feasible for the selection of new teachers.

There are many problems at the present time, but the
one aspect that is deserving of strong attention is, how to
properly treat the teacher who has grown old in the service, What is the best way by whieh the greatest amount
of justice can be done to her and by which the greatest
amount of justice can be done to the city? When teacher
has ceased her days of usefulness to the schools on account
of lack of health or age, should not some steps, considerate
of her, be taken by those in whose service she has come to
that state?) On the other hand, is it an act of justice to

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
the growing pupils to be taught by teacher under those
eonditions? There are different solutions of this problem;
Opinions vary; but the problem ought to be examined with
clearness and intelligence by the authorities who have such
matter in charge and the most equitable conelusion for the
teachers and the city drawn.

This problem does not exist to as great an extent in
our city as it does in great number of other cities throughout even our commonwealth. Here our teaching force is to a
great degree composed of men and women whose personalitv and teaching capacity are in every way conducive to
developing the best there is in the child. Ability and willingness are the characteristic marks of the vast number of
Holyoke teachers.

FIRE DRILLS.

Fire drills oceur-regularly in our schools, and strong
precautions are taken to avoid any dangerous liabilities.
The vigilance of the authorities in charge is being exercised
to develop every reasonable security for the protection of
the school children.

MEDICAL INSPECTION.

The present school year has witnessed in our schools
the medical inspection as reality. Although it is not eonducted at the present time on an expensive seale, still its
influence  deep. The great assistance given by the sug- |
gestions and examinations, the help toward better physical
development, is very manifest, for there are great mass
of children whose parents cannot afford to pay for the medical help and yet whose condition demands this help, to :
whom this word in time would set their whole physical being *
night, would prevent poor sight, would destroy adenoids,
would prevent in its early stage forms of contagious dis
ease, would help the public health in great measure.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

The usefulness of medical inspection is impaired by
lack of funds, but its field of usefulness is large and effective both as destroyer and preventer of disease. The wisdom of medical inspection cannot be questioned and  its
field ought to be extended. Children affected by sickness
deserve the helping hand of the state, and insurance against
sickness is splendid investment for our city.

PLAYGROUNDS.

Playgrounds are vital part of school life. The development engendered in the playing field is very valuable.
The health of body and mind, the force of character that is
developed herein, are unquestionably recognized. The care
and protection that child would have in such playgrounds,
and the removing of the street hazards, make playgrounds
a part of school life almost invaluable.

All the grammar schools should have playgrounds, and
the High School one large campus particularly for the [igh
School scholars, and at times where all the other scholars
of the city could play with the fullest freedom.

While almost all of our citizens concede the necessity
of playgrounds, yet as our modern school buildings are constructed, one after the other, we do not have adjoining them
proper playgrounds. Why is this? With our growing population it can hardly be thought proper economy to delay
the purchase of such sites. Such delay under ordinary
aspects would look like false economy. In the meanwhile,
the need of fitting playgrounds constantly grows.

Respectfully yours,
JAMES J. O'DONNELL.

REPORT OF THE )
Supervisor of Drawing.
Mr. James J. O'Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

Dear Sir:— The work in Drawing and Art Education
has been carried on, during the past year, very nearly along
the same lines as for the two or three years preceding.

It has sometimes appeared in the past as if many
thought that constant changes—the adoption of new ideas
and methods, with apparently little regard paid to the ques- '
tion of their being any better than those already in use—
must invariably be manifestations of growth and improvement, but at the present time this tendency has mostly disappeared. In fact, as the ends to be secured by the introduction of Art Education into the public sehools have become more thoroughly understood, the work has been more
thoroughly systematized, until now, the courses followed
in the more progressive of the leading cities of the country,
as far as circumstances will permit, are very nearly iden- ,
tical.

One hour week in the grammar grades is discouragingly small amount of time in which to attempt to teach the
many topics that are included in our course.

Then again, design and construction are so closely related that it seems absolutely necessary that some construction of objects should be attempted in order that pupils may
realize this close relation, but this takes time from our
already small allowance, while in many cities time is provided for such work as Manual Training outside of the
regular time allotted to drawing. earnestly hope that
this matter will be given serious consideration.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

I would like to call attention to the fact that an ‘‘International Congress for the Advancement of Drawing and
Art Teaching is to be held in London next summer. Leading educators from nearly every part of the civilized world
will meet there to discuss problems connected with this
subject.

An interesting point to be noted in connection with
the congress is the prominent part to be taken by Americans
—and this is noteworthy because it indicates the rapid advance that has been made in the teaching of this subject
in America during the last score of years.

Twenty years ago America, as whole, would have
made but poor showing in the line of Art Education compared with the work that was being done in Germany and
France; but today the best of our public school work will
compare favorably with the best that can be shown from
any other country in the world.

Exeellent work has been done in the High School during the past year, and it has been the source of much gratification to hear the favorable comments that have been
made by visitors concerning the drawings and paintings
that have been on exhibition. The remark has more than
once been made, ‘‘I had no idea that such work was done
here.”’ ;

The graded schools have been visited every two weeks
by the supervisors, and the regular visits of inspection have
been made. Teachers’ meetings also have been held as usual.

In conclusion, wish to express to the principals and
teachers in our schools, my appreciation of their intelligent
support in our work together during the vear, and to thank
the superintendent and members of the School Board for
the kind consideration that has been given to my department.

Respectfully submitted,
ISABELLE H. FERRY,
Supervisor of Drawing.

REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of Music.
Mr. James J. O’ Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

DEAR Si r:—There has been no change of importance in
the instruction of music in the schools the past year. We
have just been trying to enforce some of the problems of a
music course.

I can see some advancement in the past year, but not
as much as expect in the future. On the whole, we have
an excellent corps of teachers, who seem to work with enthusiasm; and work in this manner is sure to accomplish
good results.

In May, was requested by the Grand Army Committee
to arrange chorus for Memorial Day exercises. organized chorus of four hundred boys from the various grammar schools, who demonstrated singing quality of voice
which was greatly enjoyed by the vast audience.

My reason for selecting boys only was to show the
people that boy can sing, and that he enjoys it as much
as girl.

The grammar school graduation was held in the opera
house and was pronouneed success, being one of the best
that has been given, the different classes giving part songs,
of class of music that we would not have dared to try

several years ago; and to do this shows decided improvement.

At the High School we have had all students take musie,
dividing the school into two choruses, which have worked

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
very well. also had chorus for the graduating exercises which did excellent work.
Allow me to express my thanks to the superintendent,
principals and teachers for their hearty co-operation.
Respectfully submitted,
| HUGH CRAIG.

REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of Writing.

Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

Dear Sir:—In the perfection of the school course, a
great deal depends upon the writing of the pupil. With
this in mind, it has been our aim to have all work of high
order, and results show our efforts have been most successful. Two new books, containing business forms, were added
to the course now in use in our schools. These books have
proven both beneficial and instructive. In manufacturing city like Holyoke, where large number of the pupils 
are obliged to have only limited education, it is in my
opinion important that the common or most useful branches
be given special attention; therefore would like if possible
to give the first primaries more time than my program, considering the great number of rooms, will allow; so if it
could be arranged, as in the past, to have an assistant in
this department, think it would prove beneficial enough
to warrant the expenditure. In closing, wish to thank all
associated with me in my work, for their courtesy and consideration. .

Respectfully submitted,
ESTHER A. MacDONNELL.

REPORT OF THE
  .

Principal of the High School.
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

DEAR SiR :—All annual reports must, to certain extent,
be similar, in that they show the work of the school, which,
from year to year, suffers no great change. Some of the
changes made this year cover the following matters: Examinations, Reports to Parents, Parents’ Days, Courses of
Study.

— EXAMINATIONS.

.A change was made in the time and form of examinations. written test, occupying the regular class recitation period, is given from time to time, as the teachers deem
necessary. They occur at least once in five weeks. Formal
written examinations are given semi-annually, one coming
at the close of the twenty weeks of school, in the latter part
of January, the other being held shortly before the close of
school in June. The examinations occupy three full days
of school time, and are held both in the morning and afternoon of these days. The students’ semi-annual and annual
marks are based upon the examinations taken in connection
with the daily recitations, the value of the examinations
being to the recitation as one is to three. This places the
daily work of the scholar in more prominent position,
but also shows the value of being able to answer definitely
and concisely in limited space of time, questions based
upon the daily work.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

The examinations of the College Entrance Board were
held at the High School building in June. Previously it had
been necessary for the students to go to Springfield or Mt.
Holyoke College to take these examinations. The results,
in the main, of these College Board examinations were quite

satisfactory, showing that the work in the school prepared
our scholars to pass successfully examinations given by the
College Board. One of the benefits of the school’s semiannual examinations is to qualify student to more intelligently and successfully pass College Entrance and Civil Service examinations.
REPORTS TO PARENTS.

Instead of sending regular reports to parents every
eight weeks, reports are now sent every ten weeks, or each
quarter of the school year. The report for the second quarter shows the result of the student’s work after he has taken
the mid-vear examination.

, Special report cards are also sent to parents at least
once in four weeks, where students are doing unsatisfactory
work. These cards are often accompanied with special
Statements explaining as far as possible the reason for the
failing mark.

When scholars enter school in the fall, they are quite
apt not to properly estimate the time and energy required
for the successful completion of their studies. They endeavor to take too many subjects and the result is, in many
cases, failures. It is impressed upon the students that they
should take as few hours as are necessary, and to arrange |
for systematic study from day to day in these subjects.

PARENTS’ DAYS.

On September  th of the present year, there was held

 he first *‘Parents’ Day’’, to which the parents and friends

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

of the school were invited. The sessions of the school were
so aranged as to have school work both in the forenoon and
in the afternoon. Very little change in the routine work of
the school was made. It was desired that those who came
should see our school work as it is from day to day. Exhibits were held in the Manual Training, Domestic Science
and Art Departments. The attendance on this day was
very satisfactory, and showed that the people had considerable interest in the daily work of the school. The second
‘‘Parents’ Day’’ was held with equal if not greater success,
on the  th day of December. Other days of similar nature
will be held from time to time throughout the vear. In
addition to the routine work. special programs for these
days will be aranged.

COURSES OF STUDY.

Some changes have been made in the courses of study.
One of the principal changes is that of Special Commercial
Course, which is placed on the sehedule of courses for the
purpose of interesting such students as may be unable to
eomplete regular four vears’ course. and still are anxious
to qualify themselves for business positions. This course
is being taken by about students and is confined largely
to strictly eommereial branches. The English work for all
students taking commercial subjects has been ehanged from
four to five hours per week. The fifth or added hour is
used for special instruction in business forms and eommerqal correspondence. Bookkeeping in the first year has
been made an unprepared subject. eoming three times per
week, giving two hours for each reeitation. This gives the
teacher time for considerable individual instruction so ssary for accurate results and detailed work that subject
of this kind demands.

In Manual Training and Domestie Science, four hours
per week are required of cach student. and to get eredit for

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
these subjects, student must complete certain amount
of work outlined for the course. )

In taking up other matters of the school, would first
speak of the graduation exercises of the class of  This
elass numbered  three of the members of this class received certificates of completion instead of regular diplomas. This was owing to the fact that while they had completed as many hours of work as the diploma required, they
had not completed the exact subjects for which the diploma
ealled. The honor students who represented the class at
the Commencement Exercises, and being the nine who had .
the highest class standings for the four years, were as follows: Katherine Frances Connor, Anna Augusta Dalton,
James Frederick Gaylord, Hannah Mary Griffin, Elvina
Kristine Hansen, Bertha Alphonsine Laplante, Arthur Lister
Rae, Bernice Ethel Maxfield, Alice Elizabeth Turner. The
following is list of members of the class who have been
nither absent nor tardy throughout the four years: Antoinetee Charest, Isabella Skinner and Ralph Armstrong. Not
absent: Earl Donahue. Not tardy: Elen Fitzgerald,
Ruth Farr, Augusta Chapin, Marion Demond, William Crosby, Raymond Chapin, Mary Dougherty, Septa Lynn, Eva
Moynihan, Margaret Sullivan, Bertha Allen, Grace Taylor,
Eya Dubois, Edith Kellogg, Myra Whiteomb, Anna Cronin,
Anne Halfpenny, Leonise Charest, Katherine Connor, Olive
Lynds, Myra Gould, Jean Lowe. —

Twelve members of the class entered college, ten entered normal schools, continued their study in special
preparatory schools, and six have returned to this school
for postgraduate work.

The enrolment by classes for September,  was as
follows:

|

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
‘Classes. Boys. Girls. Total.
Postgraduates  
Seniors 
Juniors 
Sophomores  
Fresmen  
In the matter of the examination of the sight and hear- ing of the High School pupils. would report as follows:
Six hundred and eighty-nine students were examined; out
of this number, were found defective in vision and  
defective in hearing. In many cases, especially of the evesight. the students had never consulted oculists. About  
notices were sent to parents. The other cases were either
well known to parents and had been under treatment, or
else were not serious enough to require special notifieation.

Some of the very urgent needs of the school are system of shower baths and lockers to be placed in the basement for the use of the Department of Physical Training,
and also set of lockers adequate in number and size, for
the use of the Manual Training Department. would also
suggest that the Manual Training Department be equipped
with materials and tools for work in copper and brass, and
that steps be taken towards the introduction, in the near
future, of metal work, both for lathe and forging.

At other times and places, have referred to the purchase of land adjacent to the High School building, to be
used as an athletic field; where only few students participate in the games and compete for places on the teams,
the benefit of athletics is reduced to very low minimum.
Could we have field convement in situation and adequate
in size, the nature and kind of athletic eontests would be
materially changed, and under proper supervision larger

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
proportion of our students might have the great benefits
that vigorous outdoor exercise adapted to the individual
needs would bring.

Allow me to extend through you to the members of the
Committee, my thanks and appreciation for their support
in the first full year of my principalship of this school.

Very truly yours,
HOWARD CONANT,
Principal.

REPORT OF THE
Pp e
rincipal of the Evening High
and Grammar School.
Mr. James J. O'Donnell, Superintendent of Schools.

Dear Sir:— For the first time since the Evening High
School was opened all classes are now conducted in the
High School building, and this is distinct advantage, for
there is an atmosphere of advancement about this fine building, and the pupils seem to catch more readily the proper
High School spirit and the inspiration to do better things.
It was feared last year that the attendance in certain classes,
if conducted in this building, would be so small that the
subjects might have to be abandoned, but this fear was
wholly groundless as is evidenced by the present good attendance in such classes as Mechanical Drawing, Civil Service, English Literature and the modern languages; the

| inconvenient location of the building having no effect whatever on the attendance.

The school opened two weeks earher than usual this
vear with very large enrollment which at present numbers  divided as to sexes, males and females.
This is the largest number enrolled since the school was
established. An average attendance of per cent has
been maintained.

As in past vears, the strongest demand is for the Commercial course, and the work of this department has been
broadened and strengthened during the present vear to such
an extent that beheve we now offer as good course mM
business training in our Evening Tligh School as can be
obtained in any school in the city.

Tt is pleasing to announce that during the present Vvear
a course of study has been outlined for the different. classes

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
and when pupil has satisfactorily completed the work
outlined for one year in any subject, he is awarded certificate, and the holders of these certificates may enter the ,
school the following or subsequent vears for advanced work.

At the opening of our evening schools each year we
meet considerable number of young men who are looking
for classes in which they may receive course of training
directly connected with particular line of work or trade;
and this fact is evidence of the need in the near future of
establishing an evening trades school. Of course, it is a
question whether it is not too much to expect that our School
Board should be ealled upon to maintain such school, at
least for several years; nevertheless, in manufacturing
city like ours, with such large per cent of population engaged in daily labor in the mills. much of it unskilled, it
seems to me that an evening school of this kind where practical courses in trades and crafts could be offered would
have far reaching effect and result in much good. These
courses could be carried along with our Evening High
School classes, for this fine building is easily adapted for
such work and it is only just and mght that our hard laboring people should enjov some of the privileges which this
building affords, as well as the more favored individuals.

While as above stated, it may be altogether too early
to burden the taxpayers with the additional expense of
maintaining trades evening school, vet beginning might
be made with little additional expense by opening the Manual Training Department of the Day High School for the
use of the evening classes. And when we consider that the
expense of maintaining our evening schools is only about
*  per vear for each pupil, we surely cannot be accused of
extravagance, and have confidence enough in the generositv and pubhe spirit of our citizens to feel assured that they
consider this money well invested, for certainly the resultant benefits are immeastirable.

Respectfully submitted,
PJ. GARVEY.

Finances and Statistics
GENERAL STATISTICS.
Population of Holyoke, September,  ......  
Total valuation of property................ 
Total number of children of school age 
Total number from to years of age......  
Total number of pupils in all schools, vear ending June,  ... ees  
Number under vears of age...............  
Number over years of age..............  
Number between and years of age......  
Average membership in all schools..........  
Average attendance .............       
Per cent. of attendance....................  
Total income of school department.......... 
Total expenditures ............  .) 
Overdraft ..  ...       nee     $dR 
Expended by Board of Public Works (repairs,
fuel, power, hght, water, janitors and janitors’ supplies) .........     ee   
Total expenditure for support of sehools.... 
(‘ost per pupil based on average membership.  
Cost per pupil based on average membership
|  
Average for the state, report of  ... IS  
Tax on one dollar of valuation. ............. OO 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
RECEIPTS.

Dog taxes .........cc       es  

Tuition ..   ec       

Sales Loi.      
. —-— 
Appropriations and transfers ....  
Total income ..............  
Total expenditures ..............  
: Overdraft ..............  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ESTIMATES.
Estimates Expenditures Estimates |
 

Day school teachers 
Evening school teachers  . ,
Supervisors  . 
Superintendent  . 
Clerks  . 
Truant officers  . 
Janitors  
Building supplies  
Educational supplies  . 
Furniture  . 
Text books —s-  
County truant school  
Freight, express and cartage  
Laundry  
Livery  
Office expense  
Printing and advertising  
Rentals  
Transportation  
Telephones  
Special help |
Census  
Unclassified  . 

$ 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
CLASSIFIED EXPENDITURES.
SALARIES OF SUPERINTENDENT, CLERKS AND. TRUANT
OFFICERS. ae |
Superintendent—James J. O’Donnell.......... 
Clerks—Agnes M. Cadieux................. -.  
Mary J. Callahan....................  
Ida A. St. Martin....................  
Truant Officers—Thomas W. Doyle............  
Edouard Cadieux ............  
Thomas E. Gallagher.........  
Thomas J. Ashe (census).....  
John Ryan (census) .........  
Total ....  c       ees  
EDUCATIONAL SUPPLIES.
| Bookkeeping .......  ... cc       

Busy Work ............     ete ete 
Crayon o.oo.         
Domestic science .........     ees  
Drawing .....   cc  ete eens  
Erasers—blackboard .........   cease  
Erasers—rubber .........    es  
Geography oo...    teens  
History  ...         eens  
Kindergarten .......... cc    aces  
Manual Training .................   
MUSIC  ...     eens  
Paints, brushes ete. .............      
Paper oo...             

Pencils  ... ce   ec      teen tee   
Pens and penholders .................. 
Rules oo...    et      ees  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
SCIENCE vo.ee  eet     ees  
Stenography ........     ce    eens  
Writing  ...   t eens  
Unelassified  ...  ...           
$ 

TEXT BOOKS.

Drawing .....      enes 
Elocution ...  ...   ec     
English ...  ...         
French and German................ s  
Geography .......  ...   cc       
History .. occ cc     ees  
Latin and Greek ...............     
Library  ... ce c cette ens  
Manual Traiming ...............  sec      
Mathematics ..........  ...   ec cs  
MUSIC woo. ec ec     ene  
Physiology and Hygiene ..................  
SCICNCE oc ec  ee          
Spanish ...... cc   cette ees  
Stenography ........           
Unelassified  ... cees  
$ 


SSO  (O  se ODD ins) GED se Op MatTmUN MOM MmMoOWM  
AGCHWANHOMODMOHONH TOOMOTHR OTN
meaomnmnmmeR KF AMA TO moO maAN NO co fae) al
SOS wes TIN TO TAN RAGS AtaAmMnO RSs  
‘smOL TAB MADOE aMAMMHAGG NAA HD” TORQ &
Ke NOW  Me OO §— Ow BRT CQ  me as Nn
Tt  -— -—  
wh oe
.” sa RO) OF CF SB  Ba Ro Lae)
. ew PTB PERBRR Bip ims Aii:i ia  ,
*snoeo Soe Ft: tee te  Chapoe a? SS ae oy 
, samo SS PSP as ewe oe ee
mr Sie Ue The ay Cie:i: eS ois Teh ees an
 ve anne  oO aeart nn te ae Bee a? te  (MSSM SSSSSos? PPP T? Pye le
: MO MMMM MMMMMOS wH Sriseetets oe ew be oN
seaoydayay One inane IAN! rata eso ts ae)
” a. tet em Be: la
on on an foo) cow Sc eptis. Loins a; Pe ae aa
@SOSBSIHISABSSRE Fi tit tii 
; Neo Me H- OI MHORANMN as ty ae Se oe Ne}
Aspune’y] Bet  on esae ck tere igs) lon)
: aeee pa
a eg ea ee
SOOO O: Or toe  Orwi ss okoe oe ae: a
| SHMRl  ims: (SSS iSsi iib : pi: |e
p wy CAM :cOO  SPOR ew SSTae Se)
 AOOAN At. Oto IS cits Eek wan ae a
put wamog  Sea   Fi   RE ae RS aeah ete ae]
w a:  ee  . *
} CORMOMONOAMNIOONDIOoe -—*,  -”
a RERLBOMSSTALINIDE Fis PPh  
| RB Me AGN AMO TAM TAVWAN Sie is wee wy
 yang WOMRACS TRODMOOMOHS FFE Gi Pit jw
‘e) Wre  SF IO Set SND De Sa etSate Ae &
Son oS   Pops Pag
ns Pr ar aio Fw oeet ok,
So) SSeae mr oO NNONN a) Bagus a
N SS IOC NMEA DEVO SOM TS Oh tT)tess os 
wr Om  mM ais ep 
“$  xo eSie ehWecg ae  perth Ap oe. urs 
| sog er HOSS Sm aM tA eA BS Boi  
b "
en! *n as ae ai, fh tax ”
z MMmOoOmmowuodcdnmmMmnMnnvio ™M araeINO ;
i ar ly ite dns Rhy gs Ae hs seer dee Mer pes Sh  ele RyRB SR  ww
Nn ‘omnjain anehkere” Se toe Reeees Sater Me
  yaad ies £FREREH Bay peg
Zz Ff RSP eR ie a
ol Dene t tie ees
fae) fae) oO fo) mo mou.
C SOSBSASRSLSS RRS SS SHSSrs!: BE: B
\S dd OMMnNn NO MO FN ANAMMAMOD S anwsa +r |
C) |} “settdens OMNMN-DK-OOWDO NTR BS FR BF BA: Pb
 yeaonuonpy OM —§— MO MT LTH NK NHN oe)
a  |
* 
w  NmMe MNOWnownnm EO ce). a, Pies ee” bra
MoRABORRVSERASSR ON Fi   fie &
*satiddn NnOtTMOD MT RTH MN MDH HT cfs eae tg w-
Semuna  oOo lf NO   SFa
“aal *
mney OAnANA MAN D-DD ie he T
RE POEHBSOSSAAAAAAG ee
son SSnTeSV rsoSal es S  s
pavesneess Tm InNe o-oo Oonn nD nD aoa
 oe
|Ee
OED UNIO Otro  nowdno mw fe) o:.o Tt ‘e.”
BANE SSEESAAACAHGS YK &
Ae MmMmMMA TO RHR TOM TNT ih ge Di to +
oe BO Es  St ES CD NS NS ON ES co moo om ome oe)
Sayqovey, “OMS OBAENBMOVOOH-ANA TM SP Deen CPN NE NRO: ||) OR
DO Re De eK NMDOWMN  faa) ol
“A CD
 ge
. oe  Ded
  Sivks eeBc.s o£
N Pt) ar) Soehv
Pe: Oe Cag  Oa ga erm tO Or ew Bie ces
  SOR mE ae ageeHe wr Sone gsi ces
g as be Begee moUyOS gna os ie oo.  
OMS EES Mto  RrOoOOMetZneuossas
’ Qiao Ew SCO goa,  ]
MdmkwcrsSSszzanne sw Oo
Digitized by Google

  REPURT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.

December ..............  

JANUALY  ... ec      )  

February .............  

March ........      

April oo...    ee ees  

May...          ees 

JUNE  ...         ees 

JULY       ees  

AUQUSt  ... t ees  

September ............. +---  

October .......  ...      

November ........c    
Total for vear .............. 
Total receipts ..............  
Overdraft .............  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP.
Cost based on Cost based on
total expenses teaching only
High School  
Grammar and KinderPrimary garten
Appleton Street  
Bridge Street  
Elm Street  
Elmwood,  
Ewingville  
Hamilton Street  
Highland  
Ingleside  
Morgan  
Nonotuck Street  
North Chestnut  
Park Street  
South Chestnut Street  
Springdale  
West Street  
West Holyoke.  
Evening Schools: )
High  
Appleton Street  
Hamilton Street  
North Chestnut  
Springdale  
West Street  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
|
|
EXPENDITURES FOR SEVERAL YEARS COMPARED.
|
 
Salaries of day teachers and
superintendent  
Kindergarten teachers  . 
Evening elementary
schools  . 
Evening grammar school  
Evening high school  ..  . 
Truant officers  .  —- 
Janitors.  . 
Clerks  . 
County truant school  
Text books   !
Educational supplies  . 
Printing and advertising  
Furniture  .  |
Building supplies    t. 
Telephones  
Livery 
Transportation  
Freight, express and cartage  
Rentals ..   —— 
Laundry  ...  
Miscellaneous and contingent,  . 
$  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
STATISTICS OF ATTENDANCE.
ee   OOOO ea    
a ol r) e
a bod  be  
sEils.| fu |teias! os se
:  aE se
SCHOOL. Bm  és  
Es|E&a; se] Se  a@  |S
 |e. FA om SS bee at  
‘  eu  z,
 
High  .   
Appleton Street... ro  t.s 
Bridge Street.  td  
Elm Street... Tt  to   
Elmwood ..........    
Ewingville................sse  '|  Ot. 
Hamilton Street...     ;
Tgbland lessetetesteseesteres    
ngleside o.oo oe t.  
MOrgan oe.        
Nonotuck Street...) ; ,
North Chestnut Street...)  
Park Street...  |  
South Chestnut Street ...../   gt  
Springdale...    
West Street...   
West Holyoke... ob] ot  gt
! ee
Evening Schools su
' Z
High...   
Grammar ............-..    
Hamilton Street.........;  
No. Chestnut Street....|  go  g
Springdale...... ... ./ tT]  
West Street...............)/ ;  
!

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
There are now on the pay roll (December) the following
number of persons:
Superintendent of schools ................  
Clerks ok.   eet     OD
Attendance officers .......  ...        OS
.  
Principals of day schools (large buildings)......  
| High sehool teacher (not including principal)....  
Ninth grade teachers .............       
-Eighth grade teachers ..............  ce    
Seventh grade teachers ..............  
sixth grade teachers ..........  
Fifth grade teachers .............   
. Fourth grade teachers ...............  
Third grade teachers .........      
Second grade teachers  ...       
First grade teachers ..  ...         
Ungraded school teachers ...............  
Kindergarten teachers .........      
ASSISTANTS Loe te       TO
SSUPOPVISOIS ... ce eeeerenee eens  
Total number of day school teachers........  
Principals of evening schools............ 
Evening high sehool teachers...................  
Evening grammar sehool teachers...............  
Evening elementary school teachers..............  
Total number of evening school teachers...  
Total number of persons on pay roll December,
A  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
, APPOINTMENTS AND CHANGES—DAY SCHOOL
TEACHERS.
. RESIGNED. 
Agnes T. Wilkinson Katherine BE. Dillon
Dora P. Howes Rhoda A. Cook
Florence L. Goddard Josephine E. Canavan
APPOINTED.
Rose V. Guilfoil Charles F. Johnson
Bertha M. Palliser Elizabeth Galbraith
Mabel C. Teahan Katharine A. Callahan
Ellen A. Kirkpatrick Maude F. Connor
Katherine A. O’Connor Evelyn Curley
M. Ethel MeTearnen Mary M. Rohan
Katherine V. Connor Elizabeth M. Shine
A Charlotte Leavitt .
TRANSFERRED.
Ahee G. Collopy Helen M. Burke
Mary T. O’Donnell Nora E. Dovle
Mary A. Kennedy Catherine E. Seully
Abbie I. Keough Catherine C. Conway
Katherine E. Leary Mary C. Shine

GRADUATING CLASS
HIGH SCHOOL.
Martha Jane Allen Florence Marcella House
George Henry Allyn Jerome Taylor Keeney
Ralph IJenry Armstrong Edith B. Kellogg
Marguerite F. Bigelow Bertha Alphonsine Laplante
Ralph Lorenzo Bosworth William James Learmonth
George Winthrop Brainerd Jean Smeaton Lowe
Elizabeth Constance Burke Edward Joseph Lynch
Augusta Chapin Winifred Agnes Lynch
Raymond Irving Chapin Vlive Lorena Lynds
Antoinette Emma Charest Septa Franees Lynn
Leonise Adrianne Charest Francis Anthony MacDonnell
George Collingwood Malcolm Everett Mackintosh
Howard Vincent Connor Sheila Belle McLane
Katherine Frances Connor Ethel Mae Martin
Leonard Francis Connor Bernice Ethel Maxfield
Anna Eulalia Cronin Rose Moise ,
James Francis Cronin Eva Catherine Moynihan
John Aloysius Cronin Minnie Agnes O’Connor
*William Henry Crosby Claire Elizabeth O’Neil
John Irvine Curley Frank James O’Neill
Cornelins Francis Curran Olea Alma Perreault
Anna Augusta Dalton Krnest Cleophas Prevost
Marion Jessie Demond Arthur Lister Rae
Edna Lena Dickinson Fernard Evanturel Richard

Earl Wilfred Donahue Francis Patrick Ryan
Daniel Francis Downing Julius Anthony Scheibel
Mary Klizabeth Dooley Agnes Gertrude Scully
Mary R. Dougherty Myra Dav Whitcomb
Eva Dubois William Martin Seully

|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Violet Anna Ellison George Little Seaton
Ruth Farr James Harold Senior
Ellen Elizabeth Fitzgerald Mary Gertrude Shea
Alfred Leon Frechette Isabella Skinner
Arthur Edmund French H{arland Francis Stuart
Margaret Alice Flynn Anna Gertrude Sullivan
Alexander Andrew Gardiner *Mae Evelyn Sullivan
James Frederick Gaylord Margaret Keefe Sullivan
Myra Celia Gould Elwyn Lowell Taber
Richard Palmer Grieve Arthur Leshe Taylor
Hannah Mary Griffin Grace Fanny Taylor
Anne Halfpenny Tessie Tucker
Helen Agnes Hanley Alive Elizabeth Turner
Elvina Kristine A. Hansen Arthur Henry Vines
*Sarah Hirsch Elsie May Winifred Warren
Irene Margaret. Horrigan Edmund Sumner Whitten
William James IJorrigan Blanche Charlotte Wightman

APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.
Carrie Lillian Bashaw Maud Cecelia Kiley
George Arthur Battersby Harold Edward Lewis
Farrand Francis Beaudreaus Mildred Spooner Manson
Ruth Evelyn Blanchard Florence Gertrude Mew
Morey Borlen Wilham Henry Moody
Anna Isabel Brown Nora Moore
Franeis Edmund L. Buckley Edna Lola Morris
Francis Leo Burke Leah Loretta G. O’Grady
Esther Clara Burkhardt Walter Reginald Osterman
George Cope Cameron Howard Levi Page
Marguerite Gertrude Cavhue Kathryn Ann Perkins
Rosamond Eugenia Celce Helen Grace Phillips
Clarence Sze Chow Pauline Marjorie Pomeroy
Cleora Catherine Church Karl Charles Popp
Eloise Adele Corser Ravmond Henry Renardson
*Certificates of Completion.

  RFPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE 
John Dennis Courtney Albert Walter Renner
Emmet Paul Crimi Harriet Kathryn Rifford
Marguerite Kathryn Curley Fred Heywood Rovee
Elsie Danner Lilhan Margaret Ryan
Violet Agnes Diamond Daisy Sarafian
George Edward Donoghue Carolyn Mae Senna
William James Donogtine Bridie Cecelia Shea
Lillian Gertrude Doyle Irene Margaret Shelley
Lilian Elizabeth Farrar Rachel Dorothy Sickman
Frank Thomas Fay George Lobbin Skilling
Royal George Fresne Jennie Smethurst
Thresa Fuller Lida Snider
Daniel James Griffin Olive Lauretta Sullivan
Maurice Lawrenee Griffin Jane Agatha Swords
Raymond Joseph Guihord Madeline Katherine Tierney
Harold Harvy Hay Henry Joseph Trottier
Stuart Merriam ITill William Whiting.  d
William Munro Hooks Philip Francis Whitten
John Hunter William Francis Wolohan
James Henry THxde

ELMWOOD SCHOOL.
Vanda Elizabeth Boyer Hugh Deeneen MeLean
Priscilla Elizabeth Childs Franees Moise
Mabel Ruth Davis Helen Cecile Morrison
Mispah Ellen Dowmie Mabel Elizabeth Moymhan
Pearl Adelaide Ellis Rov Granville Newsome
Damel Ford Ilarriet) Perkins
Delia Veronica Girard Mae Gertrude Rivett
Jessie [Lenderson Margaret Virginia Rooney
Stuart Franklin Heimritz Wilham Francis Rooney
Karl Raymond THeibel Mary Edith Rigali
Fanme Thldreth William Frederick Stache
Evelyn Florence Hopkinson Charles Clarence Smith
Andrew Ross Johnston Frederick Edward Smith

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Alice Katherine Keating Mott John Scolley
Ruth Franees Kennedy Nellie Veronica Sullivan
Emma Helen Koehler Grace Leona Stewart
Viola Augusta Koegel Eva Irene Thompson
Mabel May Laduke Helena Frances Toepfert
Eleanor Leith Learmonth Kathleen Thorpe
Michael Joseph Lyons Eva Mae Tatro
Henry Atherton Lee Edward Charles Tefs
Inez Mae Mackintosh Gordon Prescott Trowbridge
Frederick William Marz Erna Augusta Wilhelm
James Alexander MeCormack Wallie Anna Wolfe
Andrew MeCormick Kate Hardy Whitmore

HIGHLAND SCHOOL.

Ruth Esther Abbott Ceciha Marie Mackley 
Carl Churchill Armstrong Harold Raymond MeMaster
William Frederick Bergman Russel Edgar Martin
Francis Edward Boardway  Lillian Rose MeCuddy
William Henry Bond Bessie Ehza MeGuines
Mary Cecelia Brennan Earle MeMullen
George Bronson Raymond Joseph McNamara
Earle Henry Buck Francis James McNamara
Catherine E. Butterfield Marv Lilhan Morgan
Chnistine Ehzabeth Callahan Elsie Gertrude Murray
Frances Louise Callahan Richard John Nugent
James Gilbert Cavanaugh Margaret: Uvacinth O'Connell
Hueh Clark Dorothea Alice Parfitt
Evelyn Esther Connor Esther Varina Parfitt
Mary Constanee Crean Olivine Elizabeth Perrault
Albert Jules Dube Adelaid Cecily Pope
Ralph Ferris Jean Louis Potwin
Mary Agnes Forsythe Edna May Power
James Tierney Gilligan John Scott Roberts
Raymond Cavanaugh Hafey Francis Datus Rock
Giles Marion Haggerty John Henry Rohan

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Clarence Edwin Hart James Charles Ross
Katherine Augusta Hastings Agnes Esther Ryan
Alfred Whiting Hewitt Gertrude May Smith
Carrie Isabell Hicks Alice Cornelia Scully
Ruth Harriet Hillman “Nettie Towvin
Edward Joseph Horrigan Rachel [lian Treworgy
Olive Margaret Howes George Francis Walsh
Agnes Margaret Kane Edward Welch
Henry Cyril Karle HIloward Robinson Wheeler
Sarah Simpson Kibbe Ethel Rose Williams

| Gladys Margaret Keough Lillian Ruth Williams
Irene Blanche Lavoie Bertha May Wheeler
Joseph Lynch

INGLESIDE SCHOOL.
Arthur Charles Zaumseil
MORGAN SCHOOL.

Mary Josephine Axmann’ George Arnold Marcotte
Marguerite Belle Bangs Oswald Rodolph Mareotte
Lillian Blanche Benoit Leon Joseph Menard
Elizabeth Ida Bretsechneider Alfred Seraphin Mathey
Eva Lina Champagne John Joseph Manning
John Joseph Clark Johanna Ceciha O’Brien
Mary Veronica Connors Ora Blanche Perrault
Mary Ellen Crimmins Caroline May Roberts
Theresa Agnes Fitzgerald George August Scheibel
Elizabeth Olga Foerster Raymond Aloysius Sehirch
Annie Handyside Coss Delia Veronica Shine
Hilda Mande Gardiner Albert Francis Standen
Elsie Nettie Ifall Edmund Strong
Ruth Margaret [eimritz William Francis Sullivan
Jessie Ruth Tenderson Ameha Elizabeth Wagener
Lillian Holgate Thomas Francis Whalen

REPORT OF SCHUOL COMMITTEE  
Harris Judelson William Edward Wiesel
Ida Hattie Kelmel Abbie Jarvis Williams
Mary Cecilia Kiely Jennie Marion Williams
Edward August Lehman  William Roger Williams
NORTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL. \
Frank Louis Avery Marv Frances Moriarty
Clara Isabelle Coleman Anime Imelda MceEligott
Ravmond Michael Flynn Frances Genevieve O’Connell
John Thomas Lynch George Wilbert Olin
Edith Mary Lyons William Timothy Shea
Charles Edgar Mavette Edward Charles Smith
“WEST STREET SCHOOL.
Armand Arthur Beaudreau  Jubette Alma Lemieux
Jeremiah Joseph Brick Frank Edward Maloney
Doria Rose Anna Brodeur Charles Frances Manning
Howard Alexander Casey Mary Anna Martineau
Jeremiah Francis Collins Hugh Morrison
Marie Louise Eugenie Dupont Rose Clara Murphy
Marie Stella Agnes Forgette Ralph Edward Nugent
Patrick Edwin Gear Francis Augustine O’Connell
William Alfred Gervais Marietta Pease
Lyle Mary Graham Eva Victoria Roberts
Marie Gertrude Hickey Charles Bernard Ryan
Alice Jane Hunter Roy Lorenzo Squier
Katherine Reith Jameson John Edward Sullivan
Almanzor Louis LaFrance George Adam Thompson
Bertha Blanche Langevin James Edward Wolfe
WEST HOLYOKE SCTHOOT.
Raymond John Bluemer

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
 EVENING SCHOOL.
MECHANICAL DRAWING,

Arthur Riel Wilham Moquin
John Sears George Keating

Lawrence Tatro

BOOKKEEPING,
Laura Boissv Agnes Driscoll
Frances Heffron
STENOGRAPHY AND TYPEWRITING.,
Edward M. Ezold Gertrude M. MeGue
; NINTH GRADE.

Arthur Bligh Charles M. Becher

David A. Burnett Florence M. Lyon

Henry G. Craven Carolyn F. Shea

John J. Bresnahan Frederick Craven

Eugene L. Gugenberger Charles Kistner

Elzear I. Campagna William Miffert

Timothy J. Moriarty Robert Neil

George J. Sieard Emille Willemann

Katherine R. Allen Alice Hiekey

Anna Mooney Eva R. Perry

Mary A. Rogers Anna A. Smith

Marv Sullivan Elizabeth G@. Dovle

Mary E. Kennedy Minnie A. McMahon

Evelyn C. Hogan Mary G. Moriarty

Lena J. Babvok Margaret R. O’Neil

Helen C. Kelliher Frances L. Connor

William A. Lamothe James J. Brennan

Joseph C. Therrien Catherine M. E. Sullivan

REPORT OF
To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN: We herewith offer to your honorable
Board the report of your Truant Officers for the school vear
ending June  th,  together with the report of the
school census, taken during the months of September and
October. Messrs. Thomas Ashe and John Ryan were appointed to take the school census, and they find that there
are children between the ages of five and in the
city.

The following table shows the school census by districts, Sept. Sept. and May the gain
In each district in each of these years, also the number attending the public. private and parochial schools; the number at work and the number neither at work nor at school,
ete.: )

SCHOOL CENSUS PER DISTRICT.
Distri ohio

ct ray  Totals
To nn

| .
 't     $§  
cis  
ain over  
se St Oe

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
CB ne oo
SCHOOLS. Sept.t. Sept.t, Gain Loss
  
;
Number attending Public Schools 
“ ‘* St. Jerome’s School. gob QOE  
“ ‘* Precious Blood School  Og  
“ ‘* Sacred Heart School TOO  ,  !
“ ‘Perpetual Help School 
“ ‘* Rosary Parish School. 
“ ‘* Immaculate Concept’n School go  es
“ ‘* Polish School Mcecceresee —
“ “Mt. St. Vincent School py ee
“ ‘* Holy Family Institute. ey ‘* Private Kindergarten. Le 
“ “Other Private Schools.  Ito.
“at work in mills, shops and stores, etc. ... 
‘not at work nor at school  
‘“ sick or otherwise effected  ce
‘minding house.  ee
Totals. tosGo  
| |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

The following table shows the number of children in
each district neither at work nor at school between the ages
of five and to be  less than in  .

One hundred and thirty-seven are under the school age
(seven vears), and are not required by law to attend school ;
nine over who are not obliged to attend school on account
of being over the compulsory age, leaving but children
between the ages of seven and vears not attending school.
 

ene of is "Toit ele

my opm)» Sf] Pp) 

DISTRICTS sisigigis  gleig zi

v ov rv)  oe wo  oe  

  ol o}o v]ei 

)  si FF FB z\g'  
ee

a rs jt —

I Mota fesfees} Deel  

  dS Fon oeaoe  

  S| Ppl Pfs ef  

  TQ FD fcc cette! settee cote ctf one fae  

 seven) ccev ) coa desens| tees cen bees  

   eed d Boo! o-  ty}  

  bop  k. vectte| cette  tees poset] se  !)  

  vests doces |  yre vesene Jovewe d eo  of  

fo Peer)  ET 

Total, ar) s|  t/] 

| |

The following table shows the number in the mulls,
shops and stores, also the number minding house. Septemher,  and September,  loss of over employed in the mills, shops and stores and more minding
house.

Muelle let alelatihaniae
Districts    
a
Mills, shops andstores  ing   
Minding house  |)  

Total  lo, 
Tot:  .-   
boee |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ABSENTEES REPORTED.
| sl eislsl  
/  B/E) E/E) B/E
SCHOOLS Polel glad: -[rldiaele  
RB g/d Bie slala wl ele
  £)  F/ ).
i —— || s
Chestnut Street, !) |  
Appleton Street,  gf 
Elm Stree:, ) 
So. Chestnut Street,/ ,  
Nonotuck Street, a) Sl CUO 
Park Street,     
Hamilton Street, Fg 
Sargeant Street,   of ar oa ag! 
Sacred Heart,   
Precious Blood,   
Springdale, 
South Street, od  
St. Jerome,  gf gg, 
West Street,   
Rosary, — 
Perpetual Help, wil t§  
Bridge, 
Highlands,
|
| a
|  
oo oe  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
sleig/elalelalsisis
SiS AAAS Si Ai aj) o)  
SCHOOLS -lal ys  
a.)  cg, j)a|s eae &
g' /z /a q/s| |
I
Chestnut Street  
Appleton Street Ig!  
Elm Street   
So. Chestnut Street rgl  mil   
Nonotuck Street  or ot 
Park Street | 
Hamilton Street   
Sargeant Street .| g|  rh) out uit
Sacred Heart 
Precious Blood )  
Springdale  
South Street  
St. Jerome  Tol  Tr  
West Street ny S|  
Rosary of  
Perpetual Help It gi Io  
Bridge Street ,  CC
Highland ]  ss 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
eeeeee nt
  g!  
» Fle FI F)| 
SCHOOLS i, og bo 
a  glgis  Rile® &
 Sigfj .
neee
Chestnut Street  g; 
Appleton Street £)  
Elm Street  
So. Chestnut Street,   
Park Street   
Hamilon Street si   |
Sargeant Street Ppt  Pi  
Sacred Heart loa 
Precious Blood gO   I;  
South Street |
St. Jerome  
West Street  Ys  
Rosary  
Perpetual Help  
Bridge I  UI
{ |
| fo) 
» ‘

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
RETURNED FROM THE STREETS.
Oo  ve) Ne)  jo ae  Bisis  AME B/E)
 ed -— Lm] Lamed a
SCHOULS  ,) oe iS o
| Paige! gjlelsai gl Ele. E
ais  )
 Pb
St. Jerome's /-  
Kosary ri: 
Kridge I
No. Chestnut  
Appleton  -. bg
Elm I
So. Chestnut ot
Highland I
Precious Blood I
Park ot
ee ce oi ———eeee
| |
alee) ielals ele
| ;

  REPURT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.

From North Chestnut Street school there were truants
and truancies. |

From Appleton Street School there were truants and  
truancies.

From Elm Street school there were truants and truancles.

From South Chestnut Street school there were truants
and truancies.

From Park Street school there were truants and truances.

From Hamilton Street sehool there were truants and  
truancies.

 From Sargeant Street school there were truants and  

truancies.

From Sacred Heart school there were truants and trie
ances.

From Precious Blood school there were truants and  
truancies.

From South Street School there was truant and truancy.

From St. Jerome sehool there were truants and truancies. |

From West Street school there were truants and truances.

From Rosary school there were truants and truanecies.

From Perpetual Help school there were truants and  
truancies.

From Bridge Street school there were truants and truaneles,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE OF AGGREGATES.
a as ae —————
 ylee ,]/  
| |
Months SS gtsizes| £a ig E
Bo \g En EF  Au Ey) O
a ee
September,  ,/ 
October,  |
November,  !

. December,  |
January,  |
February, |
March, CO I
April, |
May,  |
June,  ri  
“toute ane! seal alc —

Totals  Ss 
.eeee

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

Following the splendid record made during the school
year of  when truancy in our schools was reduced
nearly percent over the preceding year, we again call
your attention to the fact that during the present school
vear of  truancy has been reduced nearly per cent
over that of  .

We have at the truant school at the present time six
boys.

We have issued to minors between and vears of
age certificates from Dec. to Dee. We
have issued several hundred certificates to minors between
the ages of and  certifving that they could read and
write simple sentences in the English language.

Thanking vou. gentlemen of the School Board, Superintendent and teachers, for vour kind assistance in the discharge of our duties,

Yours respectfully,
| T. W. DOYLE.
EDOUARD CADIEUX.
THOMAS E. GALLAGHER.

REPORT OF
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN:— The Board of Health respectfully submit
the following report for the year ending November :

| ORGANIZATION.

The Board met February and elected the following officers:

A. B. Wetherell, M. D., Chairman.

F. A. Woods, M. D., Secretary.

J. J. Linehan, Health Officer.

H. C. Emerson, M. D., Bacteriologist.

March J. J. Linehan resigned as member of the
Board of Health and Health Officer. April J. Sidney Wright was appointed member of the Board of Ilealth
and May was appointed Health Officer. —

Regular monthly meetings have been held each month
and special meetings as needed during the year.

UNDERTAKERS.

Fourteen licenses have been granted to engage in
this business during the year.

SAUSAGE MANUFACTURE.

Seven licenses have been granted for the manufac- ,
ture of sausage and prepared meat.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
BARBER SHOPS. |
There have been several inspections made of the fifty- ,
two barber shops in the city. With few exceptions all ,
have been found in satisfactory condition.
ANIMALS INSPECTED.
During the months’ of October and November, general
Inspection of all neat cattle and swine was made as ordered
by the State Statute. Six hundred and eleven cattle |
and one hundred and twenty swine were examined. |
Five cattle were condemned as suffering from tuberculosis. |
During the vear about thirty thousand pounds of beef and
fifty-three swine were stamped. Five ecareasses of
beef and sixteen carcasses of calves were eondemned
after slaughtering.
PUBLIC COMFORT STATIONS. .
We respectfully call the attention of vour honorable
Board to the imperative need of pubhe eomfort. stations.
Such stations should be installed in various parts of our
city.
PLAY GROUNDS.
The health of the children and the future welfare of
our fast growing city demands aetion on the part of the
city. government to provide playgrounds while desirable
loeations are available at reasonable prices .
TUBERCULOSIS.
The Board of Tlealth are pleased that this vital subject
has been taken up through the kindly interest of some of
our citizens; and we trust great deal of good may be accomplished, not only im relieving those who are siek. but in
spreading such information and suggestions as will in time,
if heeded. make this disease as rare as is small pox. The

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  
best informed authorities agree that it is possible to practically stamp it out.

We endorse heartily all that is being done and will be
pleased to aid in disinfecting dwellings or rooms which
have been occupied by persons ill with this disease.

KEEPING OF PIGS.

There has been tendency on the part of few to keep )
pigs on their premises without obtaining permission to do
so. These have at various times been great nuisance to
those living in the immediate neighborhood and complaints
have reached this Board regarding this nuisance. It dees
not seem to be understood that permisson from this Board
must first be obtained before pigs can be kept in the thiekly
settled parts of the city. and under no conditions will such
permission be given where there is any possibility of nuisance to the neighborhood being established.

INSPECTION OF BAKERIES.

The various bakeries in the city have been visited and |
most of them were found to be in anything but sanitary
eondition. Lack of cleanliness was observed in nearly
every case both as regards the rooms and the utensils which
were in use.

Strict orders were given to put these places in proper
sanitary condition and to effect thorough cleaning, which
In most cases has been complied with. Two bakeries were
closed by order of the Board. during the vear.

GARBAGE.

This Board finds that the time has arrived when those
who eollect garbage should be licensed and be made to have
the proper equipment necessary for this kind of work. The
present way of collecting garbage in barrels covered with old
pieces of earpeting or sacking or in wagons with loose fit  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
ting covers, is very unsatisfactory in every way and not at
all pleasant for those who meet these vehicles on the street.
With properly constructed wagon this work ean be engaged in without being offensive to any one.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS.

Under authority of Chapter of the Acts of  ,
entitled ‘‘An act relative to the appointment of school physicians’’, an appropriation was made by your honorable
Board with the approval of his honor, the Mayor, to begin
this important work. As soon as the appropriation was
available this Board appointed six physicians at salary of
$  per year to perform the duties required by the Statute.

Each physician visits the schools under his care during
the first and third weeks of each month and examines all

ehildren who are referred to him by the prineipal or
teachers.

Bi-monthly reports are made to this Board by each physician, of all inspections made.

DISEASES DANGEROUS TO PUBLIC HEALTH.

This Board has adjudged that the diseases known as
small pox, searlet fever, diphtheria, membranous croup.
typhus fever, typhoid fever, chicken pox. pulmonary tuberculosis, cerebro-spinal meningitis, measles and cholera are
infectious and contagious and dangerous to the public
health and safety within the meaning of the Statutes.

Physicians are required to report immediately to this
Board every case of either of these diseases, and postal cards
printed and addressed are supplied to them for the purpose.

DIPHTHERIA.

Diphtheria has been very prevalent here for the past

few months and some cases have been very severe. The

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  
majority of the cases. however, have yielded to treatment
and it is undoubtedly fact that had all the cases been seen
by physician at the beginning of the disease, there would
not have been as many deaths to report. There is no doubt
but that the tendency on the part of some to pay no attention to commencing sore throat to neglect to call in medical
aid when they should have done so, and go about among the

 people, as is the usual custom, have been sufficient causes
to spread this disease and to continue it indefinitely.
QUARANTINE REGULATIONS.

If the public at large would assist the Board of Health
in enforcing and complying with the rules of quarantine,
good results would follow and any contagious disease, restricted to the loeality in which it is found.

It is almost impossible for any Board to keep close
watch all of the tme on each individual case, and to see that
strict compliance with the rules is observed. If those who
know that the law is not being observed would assist this
Board by coming forward and testifying, prosecutions
would immediately follow and good results thereby be obtained, and undoubtedly the progress of the contagious
diseases would be checked.

| TABLE A.

Showing the comparative number of deaths, still-births
and death rates for. the years  inleusive.

Deaths Still-births Total Death rate

 ...        

BOT wee. ..................-.  ..........  ...  ) TDD  ...      ...      ee) oT .................... 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Deaths Still-births Total Death rate
DoS ............... .. BS) .................... TOL .................... .................... ..............  ....................  ................. ..  ...    .................... ....................  
TABLE B.
Showing deaths and still-births during year.
Deaths Still-births Total
December .............. 
JANUALTY .......           
February ...........    
Mareh ............. cc  Sl  ob rr.  
I) Sa  
JUNE Loe ce   BH  
JULY ec   ce         
AUQUSt Lo.           LOI  
September ..............  -  
October ........         
November ..........ec   
Total co... ce    eeLODZ  
TABLE C.
Showing sex of deaths and still-births during  .

REPURT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  
Deaths Still-births
Males Female Males Females Total
December ................. 
January ..........-. --  
February ........... --  )
March ................ ..-. 
April wo...      OD  
Mav woe       OO  
JUNC Loc      es)— AS  
JUV Lee   AO  
August ...........  dD  
September .................  
October ...................  
November ............. 
Total ................. 
TABLE D.
Showing deaths by sex and age.
Males Females Tota
Under year ...........-.. ---  
From to  ................ ot
From to  ..........  ...  wees  
From to  ..........  ...    
From to d.......  ...     
From to  .....................  
From to  .................... 
From to  ...................  
From to  ....................  
From to  ....................  
From to  ....................  
. From to  ....................  
From to  ...................-  
From to  ....................  
Over Lo...      
Total .................  OFT  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE E.
Showing the number of deaths oceurring at the various
ages, during each month.
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Total
Under tr yr........  —— 
From ito  ...   
From  to  ...   
From  to  ... #I row.    gg  
From  to §... Io... CU  
From Stolo.. ww.  lUdflUC Zt i“ iki 
From loto rs... bo... Oa ae  
From ig to ..... .. -§ ——  
From to  ... Ft  
From  oto o.. —  
From  to  ...  
From  to .. FJ  
From  to .. I
From  to ..   
Over  ... ... -—  
Total. ..  
TABLE F.
Showing the number of deaths from each of the following causes, occurring in the city during the year  .
GENERAL.
Diphtheria ............ Tuber. of intestines .....  
Scarlet fever .......... Tuber. meningitis ......  
Measles .....   Tuber. of peritonium....  
Typhoid fever ......... Cancer of rectum ......  
Cerebro-sp. meningitis .. “uterus ......  
Membranous croup ..... ““ ““ liver ........  
Septicaemia ........... “* breast .......  
Parotitis .............. “* ‘“ stomach .....  
Rheumatism .......... “* ‘* prostate .....  
Pernicious anaemia ..... ‘* ‘omentum ....  
Syphilis ........... “mouth ......  
Erysipelas ........ ** oesophagus ...  
Rachitis .............. Sarcoma of face ........  
Tuberculosis pulmonary Pemphigus veg. ........  
Tuber. laryngitis ....... —Total  ... cc cc tee teetwee ewe 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  !

NERVOUS DISEASES.
Alcoholism ............ Paresis ...........  
Meningitis ............ Myelitis ..............  
Septic meningitis ....... Cerebral embolism .....  
Apoplexy ............. Cerebral congestion ....  
Infantile convulsions .... Spina bifida ...........  
Hemiplegia ........... Locomotor ataxia ......  
Paralysis N. S.......... Hdrocephalus.........  
Infantile paralysis ...... Graves's disease .......  
Dementia ............. Multiple sclerosis of cord  
Delirium tremens ...... Ataxic paraplegia ......  
Epilepsy .............. Paral. Pneumo Gas. Nerve  
Total  ...ee we ew   ee  

URINARY DISEASES.
Acute nephritis ........ Cystitis ...............  
Chr. Parenchymatous Neph Abscess of kidney ......  
Chr. interstitial Neph.... Diabetes ..............  
Uraemia .............. Pyeo-nephritis .........  
Total ...eeee et te  eee§ 

DIGESTIVE DISEASES.
Marasmus............ #£, IIntestinal obstruction ...  
Mal nutrition .......... #£Peritonitis ............  
Acute indigestion ...... Appendicitis ..........  
Gastritis acute ........ Cirrhosis of liver ......  
Gastro-enterftis ....... $Amyvloid degen. of liver.  
Enteritis ............. Yellow atrophy of liver..  
Entero-colitis ..........  Icterus neonatorum ....  
Ileo-colitis ............ Jaundice .....+... --. ;
  Strangulated hernia ....  
Cholera infantum ...... Choleocystitis .........  
Gastric ulcer .......... Hepatitis .............  
Dysentery ............ ——
Total wo... wee te     QIG

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
CIRCULATORY DISEASES.
Heart disease, not stated #£xPericarditis ...........  
Fatty degen. of heart.... Cardiac embolism ......  
Valvular disease of heart Cardiac paralysis ......  
Dilation of heart....... Addison’s disease ......  
Mitral regurgitation .... Myo-carditis ..........  
Mitral insufficiency ..... Angina pectoris .......  
Aortic stenosis ........ Septic phlebitis ........  
Aortic regurgitation .... Artero sclerosis ........  
Endocariditis .......... Gangrene of foot .......  
Chronic endocarditis .... Rupture foramen ovale..  
Septic endocarditis ..... Haemophilia ..........  
Ulcerative endocarditis .. Leucocythemia ........  
Total ..   ce we we we ew we we te weeee  e) OS
RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Pulmonary abscess ..... Bronchitis capillary ....  
Pulmonary congestion .. Bronchiectasis .........  
Pulmonary oedema ..... Oedema of glottis ......  
Pulmonary embolism .... Imfluenza .......... ..  
Pulmonary haemorrhage Acute laryngitis .......  
Pneumonia croups ....,. Whooping cough .......  
Pneumonia broncho .... #£Pleurisy ..............  
Bronchitis acute ....... Hydro-thorax ..........  
Bronchitis chronic ...... Croup .......... e.  
Total ...    weee       Zl
GENERATIVE DISEASES. .
Complicated labor ...... Uterine cyst ...........  
Puerperal septicaemia .. Ovarian cyst ..........  
Abortion ........e   Extra uterine pregnancy.  
Salpingitis ...........- Placenta previa ........  
Total  ...   ec  ee tetee  eve)  

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  
VIOLENT CAUSES.
Shock, surgical ........ Abdominal haemorrhage  
Suicide by poison ...... Fracture of skull ......  
Suicide by shooting .... Fracture of neck ......  
Suicide by drowning   Fracture of spine ......  
Suicide by cutting throat Fracture of femur ......  
Burns .........   Accidental drowning ....  
Suffocation, accidental .. Crushed by train ......  
Homicide ............. £Accid. strychnine poison'g  
Asphyxiation by illum gas Accid. morphine poison'g oe: rc  )
UNCLASSIFIED.
Premature birth ........ #£xInfantile asthenia ......  
Congenital causes ...... Senile asthenia ........  
Total  ... cc cc cewe te ew ew   ew    es.  
Total deaths from all causes...........+. -.- 
TABLE G. :
Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city
and the various institutions.
Ward oo.  ecce  eeees  
Ward Lo... cc cc cc e ce        )
Ward oi   cc ce          
Ward  oo. ce ce ec ee   
Ward io.     ec cetee   eens  
Ward  ...   c    nee  
Ward FT wi.        tee    eens  
|  
City Hospital ...........       eens 
House of Providence Hospital...............  
Harkins Home ...............  ce     
Almshouse ........... cc   ec    re nes 
‘ |

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Brightside Institution ..................... -.  
Mt. St. Vineent Institution..................  
—  
Total oo...eeee      
Non-residents .........cc       
TABLE H.

Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during

the vear  :
Holyoke ............. Scotland .............  
Massachusetts ........ Gre ..............  
Other States ..........  Poland ..............  
—— Austria .............  
. Total, United States.... #£Italy ................  
Ireland .............. New Brunswick .......  
Germany ..........-. Switzerland ..........  
England ............. Sweden ..............  
Canada .............. Wales ...............  
Russia .......-.... Unknown ............  
Total ... cc te ew etwee wwe ee  
TABLE K.

Showing the interment of those dying in the city and
those brought here for burial during  (Still-births
included),
Calvary .............. Brightside ............  
Elmwood ............ West Holyoke ........ —
Forestdale ........... South Hadley Falls ....  
St. Jerome ........... Out of town (otherwise)  
Local burials ........  ee     
Brought to Holyoke for burial... .... .. .... ... ..  
Sent from Holyoke for burial............ .......  

. Total number of bnrial permits issued............  

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  
TABLE L.
Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months.
Memb. Scar. Typh. Cerebro Small
. Diphteria. Croup Measles Fever Fever Sp. Meng. Pox Total
Dec.  
Jan.  
Feb.  )
Mar.  
April  
May lf —-  
June 
July   
Aug.  
Sept. 
Oct.  
Nov.  )
Total dd  $J  
TABLE M.

Showing contagious diseases by wards.

) Total |
Diphtheria XT  
Memb. eroup —-  
Measles  
Searlet fever 
Typhoid fever  
Cer.-sp. meng. —-  

Total  
TABLE N.
Presenting the deaths from contagious diseases during
 .

  REPORT OF BUARD OF HEALTH
Memb. Scarlet Typh. Cerebro Small

Diphtheria) Croup Measles Fever Fever Sp. Meng. Pox Total
December —-  
January —- ]
February —- os
Mareh —-— 
April  
May —— —-  
June —-  
, July —-—  
August ——  
September —-  
October —  
November  ——  
Total   

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

The following is the financial statement of the Board of
IJealth for the vear ending November .
APPPOpPiatlON Lo...       
Additional appropriation ..............  
Receipts ..  ...  cc      ences |
Balance on hand,  .............. 

Total co.cc cc cc ee ences 
Salaries co.cc cc   cceee     
Regular monthly bills...................  
Milk department  ...  ...        

Total coc.             

Respectfully submitted,
A .B. WETHERELL. M. D.
FRANK A. WOODS. M.D.
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT.
Board of Health.

}
|
|
Report of the Health Officer.
To the Board of Health.
GENTLEMEN:—I submit herewith my report from the ,
time of my appointment, April The past year has
been no especial exception to former vears in the usual rout- |
ine of labor and care devolving upon the Health Depart- men. The increasing growth of the city must and does add
to the duties and expense of the Department.
The following is summary of the inspections made,
and those in answer to complaints, all of which have received the needed attention during the year of  .
Number of complaints investigated...............  
Number of tenements inspected...............  
Number of tenements ordered cleaned............  
Number of cellars inspected...............  
Number of cellars ordered cleaned...............  )
Number of vards inspected...........   
Number of vards ordered cleaned................ ov
Number of ash chutes ordered cleaned............  
Number of stables ordered cleaned...............  
Number of markets ordered cleaned..............  
Number of fish carts ordered cleaned..............  )
Number of cesspools ordered cleaned.............  
Number of privy vaults ordered cleaned..........  
Number of cellars. hens ordered removed from.....  
Number of cellars, pigeons ordered removed from.  |
Number of cellars. pigs ordered removed from....  
Number of cellars, water ordered cleaned from....  
Number of swill cans ordered cleaned............  
Number of premises ordered vacated............. A)
Number of mattresses destroved............ 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Number of bakeries inspected.................  
Number of bakeries ordered cleaned..............  

 Number of barber shops inspected................ ot
Number of barber shops ordered cleaned..........  .
Number of slaughter houses inspected............ ]
Number of slaughter houses ordered cleaned......  
Number of notices served. ........     

‘ Number of peddlers’ places investigated..........  
Number of dead animals removed:

DOGS  ...      eens  

OF:  

THorses  ...          nes  

FRUIT.

Very Ittle fruit has come under my observation that was
not saleable. The following was condemned and destroyed:

Two erates strawberries.

One crate oranges.

Two crates lemons.

Two barrels apples.

Two bushels pears.

Two bushels tomatoes.

Five bunehes bananas.

MEAT.

Inspections have frequently been made at the various
Wholesale and retail shops, and the conditions have been
fairly satisfactory. During the vear seven veals and two
hogs were condemned as being unfit for food. would recommend that an ispector be appointed to devote his whole
time to this branch of the work.

CONTAGIOUS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES.

This branch of the work of this Department has required and been given) good and careful attention. This

é

REPORT OF BOARD UF HEALTH  
work is of such nature that it has required and taken the
entire time of an inspector to attend to and care for each
ease reported, including placarding and obtaining history
of each case, together with the removal of the notification
cards, the cleaning and fumigating of premises after the
recovery or death of the patients.

Number of houses fumigated................ 

Number of rooms fumigated.......... .....  

Number of school rooms fumigated..............  

Number of cards posted.........       
ICE CREAM.

During the year visits were made to places where
ice cream was made and sold. The places where the ice
cream was made for the street vendors were not, in my
opinion, clean, and no precautions were taken in regard to
sanitary conditions. These goods are mostly sold to children. would suggest that all street vendors of ice cream
be licensed, as by this means it would be possible to control
the conditions under which the goods are made and handled.
The other places visited, with these exceptions, were mostly
in good condition and the minor suggestions made were
promptly complied with.

sO Respectfully submitted,
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
Health Officer

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing.
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN:— As Inspector of Plumbing, have the
honor of submitting the fourteenth annual report for the
fiscal year ending November .

The following table will show to some extent the amount and nature of the work:

Water closets put in new buildings..............  
Sinks put in new buildings.............    
Baths put in new buildings.................  
Bowls put in new buildings.................. 
Wash trays put in new buildings.................  
Urinals put in new buildings. .............     
Traps put in new buildings................ 
Water closets put in old buildings. ...............  
Sinks put in old buildings............. 
Baths put in old buildings...  ... ....    
Bowls put mi old) buildings... ..  ...      ]
Wash trays put in old buildings. .............. ..  
Urinals put in old) buildings. ........ ......  
TTaps oc   teeneen etna  
Number of permits evranted.....  ...      
Water tests made oo...  ...   ec ees 
Inspection of old and new plumbing... ........... 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances ..........  )

All cases have comphed with the requirements of the
Board.

The decrease ino the amount of new work during the
year has enabled vour inspector to complete the Departinent

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  
work left over from last year. This fact may be appreciated, as hundreds of inspections were made the last twelve
months for plans filed the prevous fiscal year. |

An unusual number of calls for imperfect plumbing and
nuisances pertaining to same have been made, and as nuisances have heen abated by verbal notice, no records have
been made. This branch of the Department work seems to
meet with great approval from the general public and the
results are most satisfactory.

The sanitary condition of the men’s and women’s lockup as regards plumbing and ventilation should receive the
attention of the proper authorities, and the brick sewers in
the basement of the city hall should be removed and proper

} plumbing installed.

As the Revised Laws of the State of Massachusetts 
state that **No person, firm or corporation shall engage im
or work at the business ot plumbing, either as master or
employing plumber or as Journeyman plumber, unless he
or it has received heense or certifieate therefor in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter,’’ it would seem
consistent with said law for the Board to pass rules to the
effect that no person, firm or corporation should advertise
as plumber either by having phunber’s sign at place
of business or otherwse, until said person, firm or corporation have complied with the requirements of the law. In
the opimion of the writer, this would have tenglency to
remedy existing conditions and simphfy the methods of detecton and supervision of unlicensed) persons doing plumbing, ,

It would seem advisable that plans for all sewers from
the building line to house should be filed at the office of the
Board of Health and permits granted before work is commenced. These sewers should be laid by plhunbers or  .
censed drain-lavers, and in all cases be inspected before being filled in. The need of this is imperative and immediate
action should be taken. The amending of that section im

  REPORT OF BOARD OF MEALTH
the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Health is, therefore, presented for consideration.

— During the year it has at times been impossible or ex
tremely difficult for your Inspector to give the necessary
time to the office during the hour from to P. M. find
that many people desiring the services of this Department
request that call be made at this hour so they may be there
in person, thereby receiving more intelligent and comprehensive report of existing conditions. During busy times
the value of the hour may be appreciated on new as well as
old work. It would. therefore, seem advisable to make the
official office hours of the Inspector from to A. M. only.
This has been found necessary in most cities of our size and
is general throughout the state.

The recommendatons of former years regarding house
to house inspecton and the sanitary conditions of Hillside
Hospital are again presented for consideration.

In conelusion desire to thank the members of the
Board for their courtesy and co-operation.

Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
. Inspector of Plumbing.

Report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners.
To the Board of Health. .

GENTLEMEN:—The report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners for the fiscal year ending November is
hereby respectfully submitted |
Number of applications for master plumbers’ examNATIONS Leee  teens  
Number of applications for journeyman plumbers’ exAMNNATIONS oo...         
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of

Health as qualified to receive journeyman

Plumber’s license .........  ...      eens  
Number of appheants recommended to the Board of

, Health as qualified to receive an employing plumber’s Heense ........       eens Number of apphieants recommended to the Board of

Health as qualified to receive master plumber’s

HONS Loo ce     eens  

Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELL, M. D.
JAMES L. TIGHE, City Engineer.
MARTIN F. BOWE, Practical Plumber.
Attest: Secretary.

Report of the Inspector of Milk,
Vinegar and Petroleum.

To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to submit the following
report as Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum for the
City of Holyoke for the vear ending November .

MILK.

Total number of leenses granted..............  
Total number granted to peddlers..............  
Number granted to stores and stands..........  
Number granted for sale of oleomargarine......  
I have paid into the city treasury as fees received 
Money received for distilled water............. 
Number of quarts of sweet milk sold in the city

Cally IS .e   ee ete eens  
Number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily is.  
Number of quarts of cream sold daily is........  

Making the total number of quarts of sweet milk  .
 of skimmed milk  and of eream  sold) in
the past vear. which at the retail value of milk and cream
as sold in this city amounts to .
Number of milk samples tested................  
Number of butter samples tested. .......... ...  
Number of vinegar samples tested..............  
Number of kerosene oil samples tested..........  
Number of warnings sent. milk................  
Stores and stands ispected............... 

, Farms and dairies inspected...............  

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  

The quality of milk furnished by the peddlers and dealers of this city is very good as is shown by having to send
but warnngs for having milk below the standard from
  samples tested. There were no prosecutions.

The carts and other vehicles, with the exception of some
carrying old and rusty cans, were in good condition in most
cases.

The carrying of swill and other objectionable things has
been stopped. Have found no wooden plugs this year.

The way milk is handled in most of the stores and markets is not as it should be. Milk in cans should be kept in
a place by itself, with the cover on and the measure and
mixer kept perfectly clean.

During November and December,  went with Dr.
Rose of the State Board of Health to all the farms and dairies that supply the milk that is consumed in this city and
about places were visited; of these, received notice
from the State Board of Health to make certain changes and
Improvements in their barns, dairies, care of cows, method
of handling the milk, ete. Those that have been to since

have for the most part comphed with the recommendations
of the Board. |

The barns and premises in few cases were positively
filthy and unsanitary; their continuing so would have shut
them out of this. market for their milk. The barns and
dairies in Holyoke were found in much better condition than
those in other towns. The inspection of the farms and
dairies will be continued and all who do not comply with
the regulations will have to keep their mlk or dispose of it
in some other way. The price of milk has been advanced
from to cents the quart, and with reason, with the price
of all feed much higher (in some cases double) than it used
to be, the almost impossibility to get good help on the farms
and the enforcement of the laws relating to the sanitary
producing and handling of milk, makes the advance imperative.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
VINEGAR.

I have tested samples of vinegar and only were
below the standard, these were brought in by parties who
wished to find out if they were right to sell. All were much
below the standard, so they were not put on sale.

OLEOMARGARINE.

I have issued peddler’s and store licenses for the
sale of oleomargarine. The high price of butter the past
year has caused great increase in the use of oleomargarine.
Of the samples brought in to me, were oleomargarne
and butter.

The State Dairy Bureau has prosecuted several parties
here for selling oleomargarine for butter; in each case a
fine was imposed.

PETROLEUM.
The tank cars of kerosene oil have tested have all
been above the State standard.

I have had great assistance from the Health Officer aud
the Board of Health, also my Collector of Samples.

I thank the City Marshal and the patrolmen for the
help that they have given me.

Respectfully submitted.
JAMES K. MORRILE,
Inspector of Milk.

Report of Bacteriologist.
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN:— have the honor to submit the following
report for the vear ending November .

In addition to the bacteriological examinations for the
presence of diphtheria germs in suspected cases of diphtheria, have during the past vear made examinations of spu- }
tum for the presence of the germ of tuberculosis, and also
examinations of samples of blood from persons suspected of
having typhoid fever. For this new work have furnished
wide-mouth glass cork-stoppered sputum bottles in suitable
cases, to be used in collecting samples of sputum. The tests of
blood to determine the presence of typhoid fever insuspected
cases are made with drop of blood from the patient. This
drop of blood is diluted at the laboratory and is used im conjunetion with drop of culture of typhoid organisms.
For the purpose of obtaining sample of blood wooden
cases are provided containing clean needle, wire loop
and glass slide upon which the blood is collected. In
addition to notifying the Board of Health every morning
of the results of the various tests. postal cards stating theresults of the tests have been sent to every physician who
had submitted material for examination.

There have been referred to me for examination for
diphtheria cases and total of cultures have been
examined. ,

There are three factors connected with the bacteriological diagnosis of diphtheria that should be emphasized.
namely :—

 Laryngeal cases may not show the organisms in
the throat unless the throat is also affected.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
 In cases that are clinically diphtheria but in which
diphtheria germs are not found more than one culture for
diagnosis should be obtained.—but the giving of anti-toxin
should not be delayed in any suspicious case.
 Care should be exercised in taking the swab to see
that the mouth is free from food and antiseptic applications.
The following tables show the monthly detail work and
the results:
TABLE A. .
EXAMINATIONS FOR TYPHOID FEVER.
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. T't'l
Positive O- () 
' Negative   
Totals OO OO 
Total examinations for typhoid fever.  .
TABLE B.
EXAMINATIONS FOR TUBERCULOSIS.
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. T't'l
Positive # 
Negative  
Totals +  
Total examinations for tuberculosis,  .
TABLE C., :
Diagnosis Diagnosis Release Release Total Total
Months Positive Negative Positive Negative Cases Cultures
December,  
January, ()  
February,  
March 
April 
Mav ()  
June  
July  

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH  

August () 

September 
October 

November  

  

Total eases examined .............    

Total cultures examined...............  

Total number of exminations................  

Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT C. EMERSON,
Baeteriologist.
December Springfield, Mass.


REPORT OF

To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN:—In accordance with the requirements of
the existing ordinance, the Board of Assessors respectfully
submit the following report for the fiseal year ending December Ist,  :
Appropriation ........    ee    ) 

EXPENDITURES.

Assessors’ salaries ................. 
Assistant assessor’s salary..........  
Clerk .. occ     
Printing street lists, ete.............  
Books, stationery, ete.............. 
Looking up reeords Boston, Springfield, ete. ...  ...         
Assistants taking polls..............  
Telephone ..........  wees  
Postage  ...      tees  
Advertising .......        
Team hire ..........c      
Card index system ................  

, Street car books ................ |
Miscellaneous ...........     
———— 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS
TAX WARRANTS.
A State Warrant as fixed by Chapter  ,
Acts of  to wit: Four Million Dol| of 
A Warrant for the proportion of the City of
Holyoke of County tax, as per Chapter
d Acts of  to wit: One Hundred
Eighty-Four Thousand Two Hundred Dol|)  
A Warrant in pursuance of the provisions of
Sections to both inelusive of Chapter of the Acts of entitled ‘‘ An
Act relative to the Militia’’............  
A City Warrant for the Taxes of the City of
Holyoke for City purposes, as fixed hy Secetion  Chapter  of the Revised Laws  
An Overlay on above amounts..............  
Aggregate of Warrants committed to Board
Of ASS@SSOPS  ...         ) RIS T. 
POLLS.
The Polls recorded for assessment before July
 th, included in the estimate which determjned the tax rate for the current vear,
WOT ce   teen tenes  
(Under the operation of the Law providing for
the supplementary assessment of omitted
male persons, determined by the Registrars of Voters to be liable for assessment,
under Chapter  Section of the Revised Laws.
Were added to the List..... ... ... ......  
Making the number of polls assessed........  
A gain over last Vear of.............  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
, VALUATION.
The valuation of the City of Holvoke as of May Ist,
 determined by the Assessors July  th of that year,
When the rate of taxation was fixed, is as follows:
Value of Land.................... )  
Value of Buildings ................... .-+-  
Total value of Real Estate.............. 
PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Value of personal property other than bank

StOCK Lo.          ec   
Value of shares of National banks located in

Holyoke and taxable loeally.............  

Total value of Personal Estate..........  
Total valuation of the City upon which taxes

were assessed for the financial vear were 

The rate of taxation was made  per thousand of
the valuation of real and personal property. subject to taxation under Chapter of the Revised Laws.

The valuation an be further increased  for
bank stock assessed at the several rates and places where
the banks are located, as the taxes are paid to Holyoke as
assessment upon this class of property held by its eitizens
in Massachusetts banks located outside of Holvoke.

The valuation of personal property is further increased
in addition to the amount given in the foregoing table, by
the value assessed by the Commonwealth wpon shares of
Massachusetts corporations. ineluding also proportionate
part of Street Railway tax, measured as per Section  ,
Chapter  of the Revised Laws, all of which is the property of the residents of the City of Holyoke, .

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS

As the revenue from these two sourees is always estimated before the amount to be raised by taxation  determined, the effeet of valuation on this property in reducing
the rate of taxation is really the same as though its amount
was included in the Assessors’ valuation, and assessed by
them.

The increase in valuation over is as follows:
Real Estate  ...  ...   ee   es) 
Personal Estate ........  ...      

Total increase ............     ees) 

EXEMPTED PROPERTY.

Property exempt from taxation under Section  Chapter  of the Revised Laws, is as follows:
United States .......  ...  ce
City of Holvoke  ...  ... cc      
Houses of Religions Worship...............  
Benevolent and Charitable Societies.........  
Literary Societies ......... 
Temperance Societies  ... cc ee  
Soldiers and Sailors under Chapter  Sections  Acts of  ..................  

Total value of exempted property........ 

VALUATIONS.

Real and Personal Estate by Assessors’ general assessment  ...  ...       ) 
Massachusetts Corporation stock (assessed by

State) tax paid to the City of Holvoke..  
Massachusetts National Bank shares (assessed

by State) tax paid to the City of Holyoke  

Total tax valuation .................... 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
VALUATION OF EXEMPTED PROPERTY.

Real Estate of the United States............ 
City of Holyoke  ...  ...      
Benevolent and Charitable Societies.........  
Houses of Religious Worship................  
Literary Societies  ... ..           
Temperance Societies  ...  c.      
Soldiers and Sailors under Chapter  Stions  Acts of  ..................  

Total valuation of exempted property.... —$ d

Total valuation as of May ........ 

The Assessors on October  th of the current year assessed the Holyoke Street Railway Company an excise tax
of  in accordance with Section  Chapter  of
the Revised Law, and executed and delivered warrant to
Thomas F. McCabe to collect the same in accordance with
the above Chapter, rate of levying being  per mile
for miles or per cent on .
STATISTICS.

Number of property polls.................. ..  LT d
Number of single polls.................. -.  
Number of supplementary polls..................  
Number of property owners.....................  
Number of horses.............. ecec  
Number of COWS .......  cence   eens  
Number of neat cattle...  ...  ee  
Number of swine ....... ce       eae  
Number of dwellings ...........      #S T
Number of fowl oo...      eeee   LAST

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS
PROPORTION OF TAX RATE.
State, per thousand ...........Q...      ) OL
County, per thousand ...........    
City, per thousand ......  ...         BT
Total tax rate  ... cc    ee ee) 
Respectfully submitted for Board of Assessors,
JOSEPH ST. MARTIN,
Chairman.

REPORT OF
Sealer of Weights and Measures.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to present to you the
second annual report of the Sealer of Weights and Measures
Department of the City of Holyoke. for the fiscal year ending November  th,  .

Thanks to the good, persistent work inaugurated by
my predecessor, the dealers have seen the wisdom of having
their seales and measures adjusted and sealed, according
to the requirements of the State laws; to the extent that the
work in the department has increased nearly two-fold. Mr.
Tetreault and have handled articles in against
  in  :

I feel well satisfied that the work accomplished has been
for the best protection of the public. It is the aim of the
Department to correct evils where they exist, and see that
they continue corrected ,without resorting to sensational or

 radical means when they can be avoided. and. still obtain
the desired result; to protect the publhe from dealers not
understanding the law, or unserupulous in seeing that they
give correct weight and measure.

On the whole am satisfied that the city is now, and
can be kept, practically free from former pirates in trade.

In closing this report [T wish to thank the city officials,
the manufacturers and merchants for the courteous manner
in Which have been received by all in the discharge of my
duties. detailed report of the work performed. and inventory of the office equipment is herewith presented.

Respectfully submitted.
: JOSEPIT D. GODDU,
Sealer.

  REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Found Correct. Adjusted. Condemned. Total
Platform seales over lbs  
Platform seales under lbs  
Butchers’ seales ............  
Counter scales ............. dT 
Spring seales ............... gt  
Beam seales .............  )
Balanee seales .............  
Tee seales .........    
Weights .............. ----  BAOT  
Dry measures .............. 
Liquid measures ...........  
Yard sticks ..............  
Milk jars ...............  
Baskets ..........-   
Ice cream boxes............  
Measuring machines ........  
Oil cans ......... ee
| Ice cream cans.............  
Re-weighing coal ........... 
Fees collected and handed over to City Treasurer 
Fees due the Department Nov. ........  
Total earned by the Department.......... 
; EQUIPMENT.
One bullion balance.
One Massachusetts standard balance in good condition.
Two sealer trying balances in good condition.
Nickel plated weights (avoirdupois),  -Ib..  -Ih.,
 -Ib.,  -Ib..  b..  -Ib.
Two sets brass weights (avoirdupois), lb. to Us oz.
mn good condition.

e
REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES  

Square cast-iron weights (avoirdupois), lb., in
good condition.

Brassweights (avoirdupois),  -lb.,  -lb.,  -lb..  -lb.,  -lb., in good condition.

One kilogram in cherry box.

One steel meter in box.

One brass vard standard in box, in good condition.

One brass vard measure in good condition.

One set Massachusetts standard iron dry measures.

Two sets wooden dry measures,  -quart to  -quart.

One set nickel plated liquid measures, gallon to gill,
in good condition.

One set brass liquid measures, gallon to gill.

One mahogany box for liquid measures, in good condition.

One upright drill in fair condition.

One kit of tools in good condition

One water-power emery wheel.

One hundred and twenty-five pounds rod lead.

One reading glass.

One handbag in poor condition.

One counter seale in good condition.

One bushel basket.

One eabinet and ecards for card system.

Twenty-three rubber stamps.

Fourteen steel dies.

One basket seal in good condition.

One desk.

Five office chairs.

One clock.

Four burning brands.

 One hand truck.

Three graduates.

One spring seale in good condition.

One map.

One badge.

‘
  REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One pencil sharpener.
One typewriter, in good condition.
One weighing stand.
Seven hooks.
Two brass measuring rules.
One typewriter stand.
Two tin dry measures.
] One vise.
One hot blast stove.
Two tin funnels.
Books and stationery.

REPORT OF
CITY SOLICITOR.
To the Honorable, the Mayor of the City of Holyoke.

The report of the Law Department for the year ending
December is respectfully submitted:

City of Everett vs. City of Holvoke.

This was claim for expenses incurred for care of |
small pox patient, for which the City of Holyoke was alleged
to be liable, and suit was entered in the Superior Court of
Middlesex County for There was no doubt of the
eity’s hability, only the amount of the expenses claimed
being in dispute. Settlement was effected. without trial,
for  and costs, the total being .

Thirty or more petitions for damages were heard by the
committee on claims, and, on the recommendation of the
committee, settlements were effected in the following cases,
VIZ:

Edward Busiere.

Damages to artificial limb by fall upon defective grating.  paid.

Emile Foucher. |

Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk on Park street,
alleged to be defective.  paid.

George W. Cook. )

Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk, on Hampden
street, alleged to be defective.  paid.

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR
 Henry Bogart. ;
Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk, on Mosher
street, alleged to be defective.  paid.
Patrick Bowler.
Personal injury by reason of alleged defect in city department appliances.  paid.
. Fred Boldway.
Personal injury by fall upon defective area grating
on Mosher street.  paid.
James Hanretty.
Personal injury from fall caused by defective manhole covering on Commercial street.  paid.
Daniel Connor.
Personal injury (broken limb) by fall upon sidewalk,
on Lyman street, alleged to be defective.  paid.
“Mathilda D’Aigle.

Personal injury (sprained wrist) by fall upon sidewalk, on Cabot street, alleged to be defective.  paid.
Mary Keves.

Personal injury (sprained ankle) by fall upon sidewalk on Cabot street, alleged to be defective.  paid.
Elizabeth Kelliher.

Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk, on Hampden
street, alleged to be defective.  paid.


