REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR  
Mrs. Edward Sullivan.
Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk on Dwight
street, alleged to be defective.  paid.
Mary MeDonald.
Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk, on East
Dwight street, alleged to be defective.  paid.
Edward Sughrue. |
Personal injury (broken leg) by fall upon sidewalk,
on Lyman street, alleged to be defective.  paid. |
James Joyce.
Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk, on Center
street, alleged to be defective.  paid.
Frank Kallaugher.
Personal injury by fall upon sidewalk, on High street,
alleged to be defective.  paid.
Delia Shea.
Personal injury by falling into cesspool underneath
a sidewalk which suddenly gave way.  paid. .
Suit was entered by Annie Shea for damages for personal injuries caused by alleged defect in’ sidewalk on
Dwight street. Compromise was effected by payment of
$ .

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR

The following actions are pending in the Superior Court
of Hampden County:

Bridget Halpin vs. City of Holyoke.

Damages for personal injury eaused by fall upon alleged defective sidewalk on Dwight street.

Oliver Bernard vs. City of Holyoke.

Damages for personal injury caused by fall upon alleged defective bridge planking on Appleton street.

Catherine M. Wilmot vs. City of Holvoke.

Damages for personal injury caused by fall upon alleged defective sidewalk on Dwight street.

Henry Belanger, Adimr., vs. City of Holyoke.

, Two actions, one for damages for death, and one for
damages for conscious suffering, of Ora Brinkman, who was .
killed by the overturning of wagon upon highway at West
Holvoke alleged to be due to laek of proper railing near
declivity.

Edward Conture vs. City of Holyoke.

Damages for personal injury caused by overturning of
wagon upon highway at West Holvoke, alleged to be due to
lack of proper railing near deelivity.

Michael J. Momarty vs. City of Holyoke.

Petition for jury to assess damages to land of petitioner

by the relocating and widening of Pleasant street.

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR  
Franees E. Rogers vs. City of Holyoke.

Petition for jury to assess damages to land of petitioner
by the relocating and widening of Pleasant street.

I would recommend that there be, at least once year,
an inspection of all sidewalks, area gratings and bridge .
planking, with written report of defects filed with the
Board of Public Works. Neglectful owners of worn or
loose area gratings might then be notified to repair the
same, and many claims for damages thus avoided.

With due appreciation of courtesy extended by the
several departments and officials, the foregoing is submitted.

MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN,
. City Solicitor. 
Holyoke, Mass., December .

REPORT OF THE
Sinking Fund Commissioners.
Holyoke, Mass., Nov. .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.
The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund for the payment of municipal bonds respectfully submit the following
report: 
Amount of fund reported Novem- .
ber ................. 
Received during the year:
Appropriated by Board of AlderMEN  ...         ees 
From Board of, Water CommisSIONETS ...          
From City Treasurer, Holyoke &
Westfield R. R............ ..  
Interest on investments.........  
; 
: Paid during the year:
To City Treasurer to meet bonds
due June  .................. 
To City Treasurer to meet bonds
due December  .............  
Amount of Fund this date.. 

REPORT OF SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS  
Invested as follows:
Municipal bonds .............. 
Loans on real estate............  :). 
Cash deposited at interest...... ,
——————- 
Respectfully submitted,
, C. FAYETTE SMITH,
LEMUEL SEARS,
- SAMUEL McQUAID,

Commissioners of Sinking Fund.

e
@
. {
s ;

- REPORT OF THE |
CITY ENGINEER.
 To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN:—The thirty-fourth annual report of the
City Engineering Department ending November  th,  ,
is herein submitted.

RECEIPTS.
' By appropriation ...............     ees 

EXPENDITURES.
Salaries of City Engineer and assistants........ 
Office supplies .........       
Printing and binding................  ees  )
Car fare, horse hire, traveling expenses, ete....  
Telephone and telegraph ................ 
Directory, engineering periodicals .............  
Towel supply, ete.  ...         
$  JOV 
SEWERS.

The construction of the main trunk of the Pine street
storm water system, which was let by contract last vear
and which was described in the report of this Department
for  had been finished in the early part of this vear.
This main trunk is constructed of reinforced concrete block,
and is inches in diameter from Appleton street to Tamp  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

den street, and inches in diameter from Hampden street
to the ice house, where it has been connected with the Walnut street outlet, so called. This outlet for the storm water
sewer is to be considered only temporary, the plan being to
extend the main trunk at some future time from the intersection of Pine and Prospect streets directly to the river.

Because of the grade, the sewer, from the intersection
of Pine and Prospect streets in Prospect street to the Walnut street outlet. was designed to be inches only in diameter. The contractor, however. on account of having no
forms to make bloeks for this size, built it inches in
diameter, or the same size as the preceding section in Pine
street.

This type of sewer is the first of its kind built in this
city, and. although doubts were expressed in the beginning
about its strength and durability. such were dispelled as
the construction of the sewer progressed. So far as can be
judged the sewer is equally as strong and durable, if not
more so than brick sewer of the same diameter. The contract for the construction of the sewer was let to Rivers &
Young at  per running foot for the inch size and
$  per running foot for the inch size, ineluding in both

 eases all manholes which were nine in number.

The excavation, which was on an average feet in
depth, and back filling. were done by day labor by the city
and brought the total cost of the inch size to  per
running foot and the inch size to  per running foot.

The improvements made in the sewer system in South
Holvoke last vear, on the recommendations of this Department, had the desired effect. as, in the two or three phenomenal rain storms we had since then, no complaints whatever
about flooded cellars had come from this source.

This only shows what can be done with a— limited
amount of money wisely and intelligently expended to meet
such conditions. In the territory named some bloeks and
houses which had been troubled for vears with flooded celREPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
lars, in not only extraordinary but ordinary storms, had
been thoroughly drained at comparatively small expense.

A like improvement has been made the past year in
the vicinity of Elm street and Walnut street between Cabot
and Essex streets. In this vicinity there has been trouble
for vears from flooded cellars in all heavy rain storms.
During the past vear this trouble seemed to have grown
worse, owing, of course, to the greater number of heavy
storms we have had, and some relief had to be rendered.

On investigation and after a. eareful study of all the
conditions here, the sewerage system was somewhat overhauled at cost of  with the result that flooded cellars will never be heard of again in this vicinity.

The new sewers built during the year, with their loeations, alignments, costs, ete., are shown in the following
table, as are also shown all the sewers of the Pine street
storm water system built to date.

When the Cleary tract, so-called, is sewered, which. it
is expected will be done early in the coming season, Holyoke will have sewerage system unsurpassed in completeness by any eity in the whole country.

This statement can only be appreciated when we consider that then there will not be more than twenty-five
houses within the eity and suburban lhmits—that is, between the Northampton boundary line on one side and the
West Springfield line on the other—that will not be connected with the public sewer, and not more than seventyfive houses withing the boundary lines of the whole territory of Holyoke which covers an area of square miles.

This, it must be admitted. will be an unique record and
will not be surpassed or even equalled by any town or city
not only on this continent but throughout the whole world.

E ao:  
. Ppt .
eS va ct ed i
a  of gs
M  odd   wo Do
  CoS ef GN oe 
- Pry omy ow soe 
o ge eo  sfe  
ou Sk Ss  
bx, oO on Ae)  
a ome e& Tui aa 
be TT fx) “nu
  eS se eR
Eos S: oO :
Z,  I
Whee
: .o ot :
ses  PoE Pit Pd:
 am ar |
o 
:  :
o ae eo: a
ag it ei DG  
me : ry :
S §e Po ob Pog Gli g
eg So: of  tg ood
»  oe  us Oo:
. a... WN age:
es) Dt id saegeg
: ve ‘o Po: of ow: Yu. a
 OS  
Oo is io sig BBecec ;
an   ganOx ef és) bd  oO aU
£  un) be  ad mee) a
 bs oO Oo se  SSeS
  S) be 
— rn iB OOO me
a Fe P.) nN Oo
 
— ir} uN Db BA
bal e)  wo -ral  rT] x
 et: wo we |
 sols?
an MN
 Fe res  bed ND
 p) Sos ors Ss cs
a  coro: rs ort |
ba yy ees  THY Te
cBigi: fei, BS:  S
tx) AS itd: Eisiibed |
: et  :
ep) Piel alhd bu
Siz. gigs B:
tx, deens: Oo“ Bea DiS GB: '
Bagng Seas are ce Rigi: -a@
tgsbetebes  Fo  eS
O Eas ints f:f seefes
deanna
Cag  ake zispscsseersae e
mn Az  iE ELERE! Sees "|
—— (s)  esaaé a-e |
 ae  pera aie
  PP oP dad:  Reges |
te io oi: a.  ao omO
aeTnEDT al |
g  B:  cs oiié Na
 o- es: Oo: ‘a Pim ii
be  Bey: mi: Sib GE: ;
tm Ja gce. eet
 Sc. on py Siieii’ :
ey Dd pyres so  Si: li: o
as on [] qa qu a. gu Ses :
ae he mw Zl :
HL BS  ess :$ es:
ae: gone OF ga one" a: |
W rt) Gas be f
.  Nn vs ceo he are a: |
if  ESws
f Oss og On Bo Whee mn
v sc —-— iS:  a.,  es
B Ta :@ ane. e
E rete fog ge
bo :@  £:e ,
 eo won’ oe :
'  i—  b:Og os  os ,
 a) Eg Ff antag  :
:  .” &-  :
isos Co Eco te Sava 
ae, aoc i& om &@ “ze in
  te eae
: feSeMS BE :
  reigns) ie ec se :
: in ay re)  :
 im bh ro) ‘
I  -o  avn uo :
| sy Ss fae :
sos ZF Ps
| bh so ou es :
S ot oe oS  :
z vi is Po; Oe! PG: RR
|  mi oiois fo opm! ob GEOG: |
es  (@  ox ot Pio:
| tea Bes Dot :
I  an) in
| ER EE  be 
| alos  Fea  (OS ot |
: a) “oon eo be |
| (C eto ey BE ;
| Z. wat NY (xs cx, io) be a
n eo ow  SS E-)  sa  &§ —
 Fm He Si: S
  NM
f+ sg  
“
  &
\ 

g ‘
; a
.@  '
&  |
a  wee :
sus Sas a
be  ££  gees 
fe  
be @
if ft sees
oa ——— e* ,
s  |" TF
ene +
p-|
[x] Bed ol MMe
fom iyi ee
)
ja) oO  Oe
o Pid eso
 Di. eae z
i Dit Fee :
a  Pi  ta    eke  &
 see girss F
  Gy   zu
in Bag  B: se Sy   
fi Fai
we zt ASA je sae |:
  ze!  BEBE E
e toc be
aS &:: BERGER  
ty  
ona at  BRReeks §
  et es dehidnhobe  Z
x) Zz Sos wd Me at sd ™
 dg  Snes ny
ce || cri lo mee  -) Pid |———— oe Gade
tw Zz.bm s&s |
 mail geit Z, ? se v
e :o Steir  Hole  lon ea : 
oe   Pid:  
|  FQ a: Bodh!  
o ee: az ae ori: Nn wow UW)
| YO  wy ns S
 ‘on 
r "i: SH xae aii oes S
a gi oi sPe 
| Bi: ii BEE  Bi! tg Pt  PGE 
n gos ie POE: a
( aiid S
  Oe oe Pit
nn Bas et og ig g
as SF  
a gee es  gis :
  Sas Fee  
|g see EE: daa S
| wo  \S) s
  gan $$  HSS é
|   ae wie  
os EE  
i   gs Fares  
wongeeas e
Dit  rarer Pie rt tod  
F: we SEPS"  ee
weer Pi &
  PEGs I:
 Be  iie  é
E Fed g$ uae |
A On, ton
| BBR  Ps sean  
re: ese
€ sa  &
GN
S  é
O


  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
HIGHWAYS.

Perhaps there is no department of the city that has
shown to greater advantage for some time past than the
highway department owing to the greater improvements
that are being made in the streets from year to vear.

And the past vear has been no exception to this rule.
for Appleton street has been paved with vitrified brick from
Bh street to Dwight street; Pleasant street from Appleton street to Dwight street; Cabot street from High street
to the westerly side of Maple street; Suffolk street) from
High street to Railroad street and Division street from Iligh
street to Railroad street.

Creo-resinate blocks have been laid on the easterly side
of Main street from Appleton street to Spring street. Macadam tarvia has been laid on Linden street from Hampden
street to Dwight street; on Hampden street from Brooks
avenue to Nonotuck street; on South street from Chapin

, Square to Northampton street while macadam proper has
 been laid on Bh street from Appleton street to Cabot
street; on Chestnut street from Prospect street to Dwight
street; on Bridge street from Sargeant street to Jackson
street and on Mosher street from Bowers street to Bridve

street.

The total length of streets improved was miles, of
which miles were of briek pavement, miles wood
block pavement and the remaining  miles macadam
tarvia and macadam proper.

The cost per square vard of these pavements ineluding
all excavation and foundations are shown in the following
table.

R
Noy EPORT
o jep OF
 .p uno CIT
Ap,ou “ph YE
ind eo: NGINEE
i roa)  R
gy pine ene |
  JUSW oy  
JAB rin a
cpa SHE im nN Pa  
S cen: ia PB
REFER |
 aeae  
—  sk 
e |
  gor ++
 ws So
! ws ga
a    succne
  se Po
  a
na gE enetnee
Z  pip bcs  
ao caseea:
   ieetedey
  |
a ESE ES
ote en Sa eeuRCRS
  FEE Sa  
; Raa ag s
c pied §
 rT) SESEE) )
. [om oa  
a  SEE 
eo ggaiidad
|  ae SEEEEEE
es SERELEE
om ws ae
, PoE Bo
va  ae soccer
o- "e wae ‘cpeenee
RQ bag
 ase
  SEE +Tr 
HD
’ cS ite
O dee!
Z.    
on SE pb
 BES bE
 eo Sere 
S| Ba  TtEcE
pe BEE
en His eEREE
T  af og SELEEEE
Pa id,  
 Nuri
mr  yada
pam  tere
  etal bd
  THEE
a dibeie!
om |S  
fx £* Jor
 aHIELUE
{xq at ro  vor}
eeS Eg es
| [as SIL
i dH 
' midge 
cw erties
| aH
OO —™ oe  ]
| PACH HEE
- faz us fe 
a” caf Boo Paa  s
fee sa err
ou PEese  a. &
Sf  ba om Son '@) -
iluiiel Ras
UETERIE |
  fe) #
 ES bd
TELE
  Haida
(x) 
iaqdd:
v a
x ES  
.  )
e

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

In the improvements to be made in highways the coming year, Suffolk street, from Walnut street to Oak street,
should not be forgotten.

After long agitation regarding the opening of Jackson street under the tracks of the Holyoke Westfield railroad, the matter was finally agreed upon by the city and
the railroad company, and in consequence decree for the
opening of the street was granted by the County Commissloners.

The work, which has just been started, cannot very well
be prosecuted through the winter months, and is likely to
be deferred until the coming spring, when, it is expected, it will then be prosecuted to completion as rapidly as possible.

CURBING AND SIDEWALKS.

Although considerable work has been done in the laying
of curbing and sidewalks for some years past, there is still
a very large amount of this work to be done. Consequently,
it might be advisable to make permanent loan so as to
enable this work to be done with greater despatch, as it is
hardly reasonable or fair to make some of the taxpayers,
who want curbing and sidewalks around their properties
and are willing to pay their share of the cost of the same,
to wait for several years before they receive either. Such
a policy is not proper one and certainly no incentive for
people to improve their properties.

It is, therefore, suggested that some system be devised,
whether by the use of permanent loan or otherwise, that

property owners can promptly get curbing and sidewalks
on application, so long as they are willing to pay their share
of the cost of the same.

, For the number of lineal feet of curbing and square
vards of sidewalks laid and recovered during the year, vou
are respectfully referred to the report of the Board of Pubhe Woks.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
ACCEPTED STREETS.

, The following table gives the locations, measurements
and grades of the streets accepted during the year  viz:
Name of Street From To Length Width
Jackson point ft. east of the center line of Commercial st. Commercial st. ft. ft.
Hitchcock The center line of Northamp. ton st. Westfield rd. ft. ft.

The established grades of the above named streets are
as follows:

Name of Street Intersection with Grade
Jackson Commercial st.  
Jackson point ft. east of Commercial st.  
Jackson point ft. east of Commercial st.  
Hitchcock Northampton st.  
Hitchcock Dexter st. '
Hitchcock Martin st.  
Hitchcock Center of Holyoke St. Ry. Co., location  
Hitchcock At point ft. west of Northampton st.  
Hitchcock At point ft. west of Northampton st.  
Hitchcock Westfield rd.  
BRIDGES.

It is unnecessary to repeat again what has been stated
so many times before, regarding the wisdom of the construction of new bridge each year until all the older and
weaker bridges would be replaced by more modern structures. It seems that new structure should be built, if no
more than for aesthetic reasons, on Sargeant street over the
first level canal, as the present structure is certainly, to
say the least, no addition to the city beautiful.

Following is tabulated list of the bridges under the
care of the city, together with their widths of roadway,

sidewalks, and areas of the same.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF THE CITY.
& r-)  aie at
, LocaTIONod Area of Width of} Area of
. a“ Roadway |j Walks Walks
S| Fe
South Hadley Falls (county bridge)
eight SPANS...........-.. --     en s|  ft.] sq. it.| ft. sq. ft.
Bridge street at Valley Mill...............|  ft.| sq. ft.; ft. sq. ft.
Lyman street over rst level canal.......  ft.| sq. ft-| ft.  q. ft.
Lyman street over and level canal......)  ft.| sq. ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Dwight street over  st level canal
(brick road and concrete walk).........,  ft.| sq. ft.| ft. sq. fr.
Dwight street over znd level canal
(brick road and concrete walk.........|  ft.; sq. fe.| ft. sq. ft.
Appleton street over  st level canal...)  ft.| sq. ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Appleton street over and level canal... f'. sq. ft.| ft. sq. ft.
Cabot street over rst level canal.........  ft.)  sq. ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Cabot street over and level canal.......;  ft.! sq. ft.| ft. sq. ft.
Cabot street over  rd level canal
(granite rosd and concrete walk)......|  ft.| sq. ft.;  fe. sq. ft.
Sargeant street over rst level canal.....  ft.| sq. ft.|  ft.  in.’ sq. ft.
Sargeant street over  nd level canal...|  ft.| sq. ft.|  fe. sq. ft.
Jackson street over  nd level canal.....  ft.|  ,.  sq. .|  ft. io.) sq. ft.
Main street over  rd level canal.........;  ft.| sq. ft.| fc. sq. ft.
Williamansett (county) bridge, three
SPADS ........ coos cec se  ese]  ft.|  q. ft.| ft. sq. ft.
Williamantic bridge (app. cach)...  f[t.} sq. ft.|  ft. sq. ft.
Foot bridee over B. M. R.R. tracks
at Dwight street ....  ... DODI ee)      ft. sq. ft.
a ON eR OR
l
Total oo. ec c s  :q. ft.  sq. ft.
PARK AND LIGIITING DEPARTMENTS.

With the exception of alignments for pipe laying, little
if any work had to be done for the Lighting Department
during the vear.

The same, however, cannot be said of the Park Department which demanded the attention and time of an assistant from this office practically throughout the whole working season. ,

| WATER DEPARTMENT.

A new section of  -inch pipe-line feet in length
has been laid from poimt in the High Service pipe-line,

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
adjacent to the Wright gate house, and connected again
with the same line at the end of the new canal or rock eut
so called.

This new section of pipe-line has been laid because the
old pipe-line, which was the original main from Wright’s
reservoir to the city and which was made part of the High
Service line after the new canal was constructed, was found
to be inefficient owing to leakage.

At first, when the High Service water was conveyed |
through this pipe-line, no leakage appeared, and it was not
until the High Service water was shut off and turned on
again that number of leakages appeared all over the submerged portion of it. .

What caused these leakages has never been ascertained,
as, certainly, they could hardly be attributed to any extra
pressure caused by the High Service water, since the static

‘pressure along this section of line was only about lbs.
This submerged line should be put in repair, as in case of
extremely low water in Ashley and Wright reservoir, or
in case of odors and tastes in these reservoirs, its usefulness
would make itself apparent because of the low depth at
which it  laid. :

Another excellent work which has been done the past
year was the laying of  -inch pipe-line from the end of
the  -inch pipe-line in Madison avenue to Hampden street
at what was formerly called Washington street but now
Lincoln street. |

The laying of this pipe-line partially completes the
plans outlined some years since, which showed that the piping system ought to be so regulated that surplus water from
any of the distributing reservoirs should be controlled and
not allowed to waste until all the reservoirs were first filled.

Until this line was constructed, conditions were such that
the Whiting Street reservoir could be overflowing and wasting water into the Connecticut river while the Ashley and
Wright reservoirs would still be far below high-water mark.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

Another value which this line has added to the water
system, is that it enables Whiting Street to be used as a
high and low service system at the same time. This seems
a paradox but it is true nevertheless. So true, indeed, that
it is actually performing these functions at the present time.

In the beginning of November or late in October odors
and tastes were noticed in the faucet water down town. On
investigation it was found that this condition of the water
was caused by an organism known as Synura which infested

' Wright’s reservoir, the main intake of the low service system. So clear and unmistakable was the cause of the trouble as pointed out, that on the shutting off of Wright reservoir all odors and tastes had disappeared within ten hours
after.

This shows what progress has been made in the science
of water supply by your Engineering Department as compared with the days when experts were called in by the city
from all over the country to solve the same kind of problems but failed to do so as some of the early reports of the

 Water Department tell us.

It is gratifying to notice that the consumption of water
in the city is being gradually cut down, the average for the
year ending November  th being gallons per capita
as against gallons per capita in  gallons per
capita in and gallons per capita in  .

SUPERVISION OF ELEVATORS.

Until recently the elevators of this city, which are

about in number, had always been tested and super, vised by the State police.

During the past year. however, the Attorney General
rendered an opinion stating that such work did not come
under the duties of the State police but under the duties of
the building inspectors in cities and towns in which there
were such officers. This places new duty of no small imREPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
portance and responsibility upon your Engineer who is by
ordinance inspector of buildings in this city.

To assign such duty as the supervision of elevators
to an inspector of buildings who gives his whole time to inspection alone, and who has no other duties to perform,
as is the case in many cities, would seem reasonable, but to
assign such duty as the testing and supervision of  
elevators to the City Engineer, who has already so many
other duties to perform, would not scem reasonable or fair.

What are the duties of the City Engineer at present?
His duties are such that to perform them with that skill and
intelligence expected nowadays from technical men, he has
not only to know the science of civil engineering in general,
but to be an expert in sewerage, water supply, highway.
and bridge construction, in the strength and stability of
building materials and in all things relating to the physical
development of the city where technical knowledge is required.

, The city has now well passed in population its fifty
thousand mark, and, consequently, it may be expected that
new engineering problems of greater magnitude will have
to be met in the future than those which had to be met in
the past. When such problems have to be met your Engineering Department should have ample time for their proper
study, conception and method of development, so that the
best results may be obtained for the amount of money expended.

It is therefore suggested that the supervision of elevators, together with the inspection of buildings, be cut
off from the Engineering Department and put in department for themselves.

This could: be done without adding any extra expense
to the city, by electing or appointing. if the suggestion
might be made, the head of the new department from the ,
present staff of the Engineering Department.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
INDEXING.

A considerable length of time was given in the early
part of the year in re-arranging and indexing again all the
drawing on file in this Department.

These drawings are over fifteen hundred in number
and in their re-arrangement the more important ones, such
as the plans and profiles of streets and sewers for each year
for many vears back, were put in book or portfolio form,
while the less important ones were grouped together and
filed under the proper headings to which they referred.

BUILDING INSPECTION.

Below is list of the plans and specifications approved
during the year by the Building Inspector, followed by a
list of all the drawings prepared and placed on file from
Dee. Ist,  to Nov.  th,  .

Owner Street Siches Description
— [oo
L. A. Lafrance Adam atreet, cor. Canal 'Lumber shed
D. C. Downing Main street Business building
M. H. Baker Appleton street Business building
George W. Prentiss Dwight street Addition to mill
John Tilley Suffolk street Business building
City of Holyoke Commercial street Barn on city lot
Henry Desmerais Division street \Carriage shop
James H. Newton Cor. Main Jackson sts. Waiting station
J. Curran High street Business building
Holyoke Street Railway Co.'Grover street Car shed addition
E. L. Lyman Alley west of High street Barn
Valley Paper Co Bridge street Addition to mill
Israel Labelle Cor. Adam Summer sts. Addition to block
C. J. Bresnahan Main street Addition
David Gange Bridge street Alteration to store
Presbyterian Church Cor. Cabot Chestnut sts. Addition
Joseph Beauchmen Race street Addition
Lyman Mills Co. Front street iStock house
P. F. Carmody Oliver street ;Alteration addition
E. Beebe High street Alteration
L. A. Lafrance Adams street Tenetnent block
A. Steiger High street Alteration Tilley block
John J. Burke Division street (Garage
Michael McKellop Iyman street Business building
Robert Cowie Jackson street Tenement block
J. Hen itz Son Cor. East Hamilton sts. Baro

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
MAPS, PROFILES, PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.

Prepared and placed on file from December  st,  ,

to November  th,  ,
MAPS.

Map of Elmwood park.

Map of Riverside park.

Large map of Holyoke, Easthampton and Northampton,
for annexation purposes.

Two maps of portion of Holyoke, Northampton and
Easthampton, for annexation purposes.

Map of Prospect park showing property line of B. M.
Railroad Company.

Map of paved streets throughout the city.

PLANS AND PROFILES.

House numbering plans of Linden street from Suffolk
to Hampden street; Allvn street from Pleasant to Northampton street; Congress avenue from Elm to Chapin street.

Plan and profile of Jackson street Underpass.

Plan and profile of Charles street between South and
Laurel street.

Plan and profile of Pleasant street between Beacon avenue and Dwight street. ;

Plan of property belonging to Mary Casey at corner of
Nonotuek and Morgan streets. |

Plan and profile of sewer in Grant street.

 Plan and profile of sewer in Northampton street between Madison avenue and Morgan street.

Plan and profile of sewer in Northampton street from
View street to Longwood avenue.

Plan and profile of sewer in Cabot street from Elm
street to alley west of Elm street.

Plan and profile of sewer in Essex street from Walnut
street westerly (proposed).

  REPORT UF CITY ENGINEER

Plan and profile of sewer in St. Jerome avenue and
St. James street.

Plan and profile of sewer in Suffolk and Walnut streets.

Plan and profile of sewer in Thorpe avenue.

Plan and profile of sewer in Appleton street from Pleasant street northerly.

Plan and profile of sewer in Sycamore street north of
Franklin street.

Plan and profile of sewer in Winter street north of
Appleton street.

 Plan and profile of sewer at Ingleside from Springfield

road to Connecticut river.

Plan and profile of sewer in Appleton street from Bh
street westerly.

Plan and profile of sewer in Linden street from Sargeant street southerly.

Plan and profile of storm water overflow on Bh street
at Northampton and Franklin streets.

Plan and profile of storm water overflow on Chapin
street opposite Gates street.

Plan and profile of sewer in Syeamore street southerly
from Franklin street.

Plan and profile of sewer in alley between Pine and
Walnut streets. ,

Plan and profile of sewer in Locust street southerly
from Appleton street.

Plans, two sets, for the Highland engine house addition.

Plans for changes in the Sargeant street school.

Plans and specifications for gate house for Rock Cut.

Drawings for sanitary in city hall,

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
STATISTICS OF THE CITY OF HOLYOKE.

Population May U. S. census.....  
Population May State census.....  
Number of voters ...........       ]
Number of polls ...........  ees  
Publie schools enrollment (day)..........  
Public schools enrollment( night)....,...  
Parochial schools enrollment.............  
Area Of City  ...    ee   miles |
Greatest extent north and south.......... miles
Greatest extent east and west........... miles
Area of school property................. sq. ft.
Area of city parks.............acres
Area of city hall and city yard lots........ acres
Area of city farms, Berkshire lot, Loomis

lot. Allen lot, ete............... .. acres
Area of Fire .Department property...... sq. ft.
Area of Municipal Lighting property...... sq. ft.
Country roads ........      miles
City streets accepted................ *
City streets unaccepted.................. ‘
Sheet asphalt pavement.........:........ ‘*
Asphalt block pavement................. “

- Granite block pavement................. ‘'
Vitrified brick pavement ................ ‘'
Common brick pavement ................ ‘S
Bitulithie pavement .................... “'
Wood block pevement ................. *
Macadam pavement ................. *
Streets watered .........   ‘
Sidewalks and crossings..............  ao.  SS
Water mains  -inch and upward in diam... *
GaS MAINS .......        ‘S
Sewers oo.        nas ‘
River front ...........  ...     neces 
Steam railroads .............  cc    

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
Electric railroads ...........    ‘‘
Electric light and power ecireuits (municipal) occ    teens ‘‘
Electric are street lights.................  
Electric incandescent street lights........  
Railroad stations ............      
Churches ...........     ees  
School houses ..........      
Business colleges .......    ees  
Dwelling houses ............    
Police stations ............. ]
Bath houses .......  ...       
Fire engine houses .........  
Fire alarm boxes .............    
Hook and adder trucks..................  
Fire hydrants (public)..................  
Post office and sub stations...............  
Area assessed ......     . acres
Valuation, personal ..................  
Valuation real estate ................... 
Tax rate per ..................... 
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES'‘L. TIGHE.
City Engineer.

.
REPORT OF ,
|
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
|
To the Honorable, the Mavor, and Board of Aldermen:
We take pleasure in submitting to you our annual report covering all operations and expenses during the past
year together with recommendations for the coming year,
all of which we trust will meet with your approval and have
your careful eonsideration. .
| The vear Just past has been an active one in many ways
and shows some decided changes and improvements on the
various parks, notably Riverside and Elmwood. A’ valu- able addition has been made to the park area in the aequisition, by purchase, of the tract of land on the east side of
Bh street. owned by the Hospital Association. Negotiations are now in progress for the acquiring of the Ranlet
tract adjoining this recent purchase and our own lands. We
hope to have same consummated by early spring so that operations may be continued during the coming vear.
It is also contemplated securing further land  on
Main street, adjoining Riverside park on the south. and
we hope to secure in the near future that portion of land
between present boundary line on the north and the old
county ferry-road; this would include the grove on the
river bank. We have also had intrusted to our care the
small plot of land at the junction of Dwight, Pleasant and
Appleton streets. This we have given the name of ‘‘Sulli-.
van Square.’’ We have regraded and seeded same. have
planted shrubs and flowers, and provided seats, making it
very convenient for those awaiting street ears. This plot
will be quite an addition and we hope will be very attractive in the summer.

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS

The greatest amount of work has been done on Riverside and Elmwood parks. The former we have completed
planting and grading on the Main street side to the end of
our present line. We have begun operations on the river
bank, have portions of same graded, the main walks on the
bank laid out and planted and we expect to have the tennis
courts ready for use the coming season as well as both of the
ball grounds. The cricket ground has been finished and in
active use during the past season. We should like to be
able to practically finish all grading on the park next
season. .

On Elmwood park much progress has been made. The
Maple street end is practically finished—all that remains to
be done here is the roadway and walks; the banks are ready
for seeding, which will be done early in the spring. We
strongly advocate completing the culvert up to Pine street
in order that this portion may be finished. Again we urge
the city to take some action towards providing funds for
the erection of bridge across the park at this point, as it
is badly needed and would be greatly appreciated by those
having occasion to travel between Elmwood and the upper
portions of the city.

At Prospect park all work of improvement has been
stopped owing to delay in settlement of boundary line by
the railroad company. It is unfortunate that the city should
he so hampered but we cannot seem to get settlement.
We have funds provided for completing the parapet wall
on the river front and we trust we shall be able to complete
same before the end of the year  

On the other parks, no new work or additions have
been made; they have received their proper share of attention and are considered in good condition.

It is gratifying to this Board to observe that more interest is being shown by: the citizens of our city in the work
of progress and improvements on our parks and we hope
it may not only continue but increase.We believe the more

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
our citizens and tax-payers see of our parks and the proyress made in their development, the more encouragement
and help they will give us to continue our work, and we
ask the hearty co-operation of every good citizen to assist
us to make Tfolvoke beautiful city.

In conclusion we cannot urge too strongly the importance of securing more lands for park purposes and of placIng at the disposal of this Board such sums of money as may
be necessary for their purchase every vear. The delay not

‘ only makes it more expensive but impossible to purchase
at any price, so it would seem good business pohcy to look
ahead for the growth of our city, which is bound to come,
by making such purchases when available at once.

We strongly recommend the building of bridge across
the park at Pine street aceording to plans which have been
already made by our landscape architect; also the continning of the culvert up Pine street to allow of building |
the bridge at this location.

We are greatly in need of suitable house for the storave of tools, ete... belonging to Tlamilton and Germania
parks, and we ask for sum that will enable us to erect
such building on Hamilton park the coming season.

Owing to the new law which went into effect this last
season requiring two shifts of men at eight hours each on
all of our parks, our labor account has been doubled, and
we shall therefore require increased sum for such expenditures. We therefore recommend that the following appropriations be made for this department for the coming
season,

- For care and maintenance of present park area 
For development work on Elmwood park.....  
For development work on Riverside park....  
For development work on all other parks.....  
For purchase of land for parks..............  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
We append herewith statement of our receipts and
disbursements for the year past together with detailed
statement of all expenditures by months and our labor aceount, all of which we trust will meet with your approval.
RECEIPTS.
Balance, December ....... 
Appropriation for  ..........  
Public park loan................  
Receipts ...        
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Hampden park ................. 
Prospect park ........... 
Elmwood park .......... 
Canonchet park .............  
Hamilton park ..............  
Germania park ............  
Riverside park, .............  
Ranger park ............-.-  
Coughlin park oo... ..        
Sullivan square ...........  
General expense account........  
Riverside park improvement.....  
Elmwood) park improvement... ..  
Purchase of lands... ..........  
—————— 
. 
TRANSFERS.
Purchase of land................  §$  
Construction purposes ........  
————— 
Balanceco...  , aA

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
MONTHLY EXPENDITURES.
Labor. Supplies. Total Amt’s
January 
February  
March  
April  
May  
June  
July  . 
August  :). 
September  
October  
November  
December  
$ 
LABOR AND SALARY PAYROLL BY MONTHS.
Labor. Salary. Total Am'ts
January  
April  
May  
June  
» July  
August  
September  
October  
November  
$ 
LAND ACCOUNT.

Eliza Whitehouse ................. 

Holvoke street railway.............  

Holyoke city hospital..............  
———— 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
OFFICE AND MISCELLANEOUS ACCOUNT.
Auburn P. Capen, salary........... 
Auburn P. Capen, services.........  
Daniel J. Hartnett, salary..........  
Telephone .........        
Carfare ..  ...    ees  
Team hire .........         
Printing and stationary............  Caps and buttons..................  
PUMP  ...       
; SOWer oo.       
————— 
ELMWOOD PARK. IMPROVEMENT.
Samuel Beaulieu. teams............  
Patrick Fitzgerald, teams..........  
Dillon Bros., teams.................  
Thomas Bray, teams...............  
Frank Bray, teams.................  
Doane Williams, lumber.......... |
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, teams......  
Wm. H. Morehouse, cartage........  
John Donoghue ,team..............  
P. J. Kennedy, team................  
———— 
Tabor oo...   ees  
$ 
RIVERSIDE PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, teams .... 
Merrick Lumber Co., lumber ........  
Wm. H. Morehouse, cartage........  
Sheldon’ Transfer, ashes............  
Jumes Kennedy, teams..............  
Bav State Nurseries, shrubs.........  

RPPORT UF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
Eastern Nurseries, shrubs...........  
W. B. Whittier Co., shrubs.......  
Mt. Hope Nurseries, shrubs.........  
Edward Gillett, shrubs.............  
Louis Lamberton, ashes............  
Louis Turgeon, moving building.....  
Samuel Beaulieu, filling............  
J. J. Prew, masonry................  
J .J. Slattery, water pipe...........  
Doane Williams, lumber.......... .
Sundries oo...  ... ee   
——— 
Tabor oo... cc cccc        
$ 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
ACCOUNTS AND EXPENDITURES OF EACII OF THE
SEVERAL PARKS. ,
HAMPDEN PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keeper, 
Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILIS.
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
$  
PROSPECT PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keeper, 
Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILLS.
Maintenance,  
$  
ELM WOOD PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers,  :
Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILLS.
Maintenance,  
Improvenient,  
$  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
CANONCHET PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers. 
Net Expenditures, 
BILLS.
Maintenance.  
$  
HAMILTON PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers. 
Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor  
BILLS.
Maintenance.  
$  
GERMANIA PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers. 
Net Expenditures,  |
BILLS.
Maintenance. .
$  
RIVERSIDE PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers, 
Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILLS.
Maintenance.  
Improvement.  
$  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
RANGER PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Labor, 
Net Expenditures, 
BILLS.
Improvement,  
|  
COUGHLIN PARK.
Labor, 
Net Expenditures, 
Bills, 
"  
SULLIVAN SQUARE.
Labor,  |
Net Expenditures, 
Bills,  
$  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  .
TO WHOM AND FOR WHAT MONEY WAS PAID
OUT DURING THE YEAR.
JANUARY.
To Whom. For What Amount.
Crosby Hardware Store Wire,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
——  
FEBRUARY.
G. P. Ellison Co., Cartage, “$ 
G. E. Russell Co., Lock,  
J. Russell Co., Repairs,  
J. Russell Co. Repairs,  
Sullivan Tucker, Waste cock,  
Holyoke Water Works, Key,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Sullivan Carmody, Stop eock, labor,  
—— 
“MARCH.
A. F. Gingras, Team, 
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
C. E. Glidden, Barrel, 
Alfred Paquette, Repairs,  
———  
APRIL.
New Eng. Tel: Tel. Co., Telephone, 
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone, 
Crosby Hardware Store, Lock, chain, Bd
' A. P. Capen,: Services,  
———-  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
MAY.
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber, 
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
E. D. Wells, Supplies,  
Holyoke Broom Works, Brooms,  
Holyoke St. Ry. Co., Fare hooks,  
J. Russell Co., Sower.,  
G. E. Russell Co.. Supplies,  
Sullivan Carmody, Stop cock, ete..  
Transcript Pub. Co., Printing,  
M. J. Kearns, Fittings.  
G. P. Elison Co., Cartage.  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams.  
C. W. Johnson, Insuranee,  
——  
George H. Allyn for Eliza
A. Whitehouse, land, 
JUNE.
Novelty Machine Co.., Repairs, 
Michael Cleary, Repairs,  
Michael Cleary, Repairs,  
Rehm Wagner, Repairs,  
R. T. Oakes, Labor, 
Holyoke St. Ry Co., Fare books,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
Wm. IL. Morehouse, Cartage,  
J. W. Adams, Shrubs,  
E. D. Wells Co., Supplies.  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
G. E. Russell Co., Bolts, nails,  
E. HT. Frederick, Packings,  
Sullivan Carmody, Labor, ete.,  
W. T. Dean, Bronze, ete.,  

|

. |

REPORT FO PARK COMMISSIONERS  

|
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Chase Cooledge Co., Oil,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Cartage,  
A. .Gingras, Team,  
James Kennedy, Teams,  

——  
JULY.
Bay State Nurseries, Hlants, 
Eastern Nurseries, Plants,  
Mt. Hope Nurseries, Plants,  
W. B. Whittier Co., Plants,  
Dillon Bros., Hack,  
Lewis Lamberton, Ashes,  )
E. D. Wells Co., Mower, ete..  
W. H. Abbott, Fertilizer,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Fence, ete.,  
GG. E. Russell Co., Seeds, ete.,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams .men,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams, men,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams, men,  
Sullivan Carmody, Faucet,  
Doane Williams, Lumber,  
Wm JI .Morehouse, Cartage,  
J. Russell Co., Hoes,  
E. F. Dreikorn, Painting,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
R. W. Sanderson, Oil,  ;

D. J. Landers, Sand,  
James Kennedy, Teams,  
Fitzgerald Co., Time book,  
FE. F. Dreikorn, Paint, ete.,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
John Delaney, Turpentine,  

 George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
G. J. Prew Co.. Caps, buttons,  
P. Fitzgerald, Teams,  
Field Sinclair, Flowers,  
John Donoghue, Team,  
P. J. Kennedy, Teams, 
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers.  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold., Flowers,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers.  
Joseph Bh, Flowers,  
A. L. Codaire, Hack,  
George A. Murphy, Repairs.  
Daniel J. Hartnett, Services,  
August Voigt, Cartage,  

——— 
Ilolvoke Street Railway Co., land, 
AUGUST.

Lows A. Turgeon, Raising bldg., 
J. Gullong, Key,  
J. Russell Co., Hose bands,  
Casper Ranger, See-saws,  
Sullivan Carmody, Labor, pipe, )
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
D. M. Allison, Supplies.  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies.  
W. T. Dean, Paint,  
G. k. Russell Co., Supplies,  
Transcript Pub. Co., Stamped env.,  
M J. Kearns, Labor, ,
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  g
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams.  
D. .Landers, Masonry,  
Merrick Lumber Co.., Slats,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
k. F. Dreikorn, Paint.  
Catherine Dreikorn., Storage,  
J.& W. Jolly, Casting,  
Casper Ranger, Windows.  
James Kennedy, Teams,  
, —— 
SEPTEMBER.
Sparrow McTigue, Hardware, 
George Lawrence. Team.  
Gavin Moriarty, Faucet,  
Doane Williams, Slats,  
M. J. Kearns, Repairs,  
Holvoke Broom Works, Brooms,  
E. F. Dreikorn, Paint,  
E. D. Wells, Seed,  
E. H. Frederick, Plunger.  
E. D. Wells. Sevthe,  
John H. Delaney. Paint,  
Haarman Dedrich, Forging,  
John H. Delaney, Paint,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone, |
G. E. Russell, Supplies,  
Transeript Pub Co. Printing, .
George Murphy, Repairs,  
Merriek Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Sullivan Carmody, Hose, ete.,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, ‘Teams,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
——- 
Holyoke City Hospital Land, 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
OCTOBER.

Samuel Beaulieu, Filling, 

A. F. Gingras, Team,  

J. J. Prew, Masonry, O. 

Parfitt Art and Dee. Co., Signs,  

Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  

Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams, |

Crosby Ilardware Store, Supplies,  

J. Russell Co., Supplies, |

W. T. Dean, Paste, Sy)

E. F. Dreikorn, Paint,  

Doane Williams, Lumber,  —

G. E. Russell, Supplies,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

E. D. Wells. Supphies, .

J.J. Slattery, Piping,  

f  

NOVEMBER.

Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams, 

Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  

Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams,  

Albert A. Paquette, Repairs,  

EK. D. Wells, Shovels, ete.,  

Louis Bibean, Oil,  

Doane Williams, Lumber,  

W. T. Dean, Paint,  

Holvoke Water Works, Service,  

G. EK. Russell, Shovels,  

Crosby Ilardware Store, Supphes,  

Holvoke St. Ry. Co., Fare book,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
Casper Ranger, Labor,  
Daniel J. Hartnett, Freight,  
Win. H. Morehouse, Cartage,  
Kennedy Sullivan, Repairs, 
Mareotte Paquette, Milk can,  
Michael Cleary, Repairs,  
Dillon Bros., Team,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Cartage,  
Frank .Bray, Team,  
Thomas Bray, Team,  
Samuel Beaulieu, Team,  
Samuel Beaulieu, Team,  
———  
DECEMBER.
Lewis Lamberton, Ashes, $: 
Daniel J. Hartnett, Services,  
Aug. Vogt Cartage,  
Burrington Motor Works, Pump,  
Hol. Valve Hydrant Co.,Pipe,  
Merrick Lumber Co.. Lumber,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co.. Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Prentiss. Brooks Co.. Cement,  
C. HT. Rackliffe, Shovel,  
Samuel Beaulheu, Teams,  
M. J. Kearns, Repairs,  
E. D. Wells. Sundries,  
Crosby Hardware Store. Sundries,  
Casper Ranger, Settees,  
Casper Ranger, Painting, |
G. EB. Russell, Sundries, |
Field Sinelair, Bulbs,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams, 
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons. Teams,  
J. W. Adams, Shrubs,  
Kitzgerald Co., Time books, BO |
a

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
A. F. Gingras, Team, |
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Mt. Hope Nurseries, Shrubs,  
W. B. Whittier, Shrubs,  
Edw. Gillett. Shrubs,  
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams,  
Dillon Bros., Teams,  
Holvoke Ice Co., Tee,  
Holvoke Ice Co., Ive,  
Holvoke Ice Co., Ice,  
Holyoke Ice Co., Tee,  
Holvoke Ice Co., Ice,  
——-  
In conelusion we can only add that we trust due consideration will be given the foregoing suggestions which
| we consider all necessary and urgent; especially do we ask
for generous sum for land additions. The trend of the
present day in all progressive cities is for the enlargement
of park areas and playgrounds. We are at the present
time far behind the average city in this respeet and it is
‘our ambition to place Tolvoke at least with the average
city, and to form the nucleus of park system that will be
a pride to her eitizens. |
To the Engineering Departinent is due credit for the
progress made in the last vear by their co-operation and
assistance for, which we are greatly obliged.
We submit this report to vou with the hope that it may
have your approval and consideration.
Very respectfully,
CITARLES E. MACKINTOSTL,
WM. J. HOWES,
JAMES F. BURNS,
SAMUEL GRANDCHAMP,
MAX O. DRETKORN,
Board of Park Commissioners.
| Holvoke, Mass., Dee. .

Preliminary Report of Fredenck L. Olmsted, Jr.
Relative to Beautifying the City of Holyoke.
To Hon. N. P. Avery, Mayor of Holyoke.

DEAR Sir:— The following report, prepared and submitted in accordance with vour request, deals with such opportunities for general nnprovement in the physical aspects of
Holyoke as are apparent to stranger who visits the city
With an observing eve and with some technical knowledge
of municipal conditions and developments elsewhere. It
does not pretend to thoroughness or to any coneclusiveness
of Judgment as to the relative importance of the matters
considered, but lays the observations and suggestions before
you for what they may seem to be worth.

In the first place the observer is struck by the fact that

. the opportunity for generating large amount of water
power was by no means the only imporatnt natural advantage of Holvoke as the site of an industrial community.
Its soil topography and situation are such as to facilitate the
maintenance of public health and to permit the development
of convenient transportation system by street and by rail,
and the landseape character of this part of the Connecticut
river, of the range of western hills, and of the surrounding
country in general, is such as offer notable opportunities
for recreation and for making the city thoroughly agreeable place in which to work and to live.

It is very unlikely that the people of Holyoke generally
have any realization of the large value of the natural resources and opportunities virtually at their control, to utilize
or to preserve for future utilization or to waste and destroy

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
| by neglect. They have probably been in the situation of the
American people as whole, not unlike that of some spoiled
children of wealthy parents; bewildered by more opportuni| ties and resources than they have vet learned to utilize
| effectively, they are apt in the eagerness with which they
pursue certain ends either to waste and neglect or recklesslv to sell for pittance other values that they have not
vet had time to appreciate but which they will sorely regret
as time brings greater experience and greater managing
ability.

To consider for moment only the opportunities for
out-door recreation and landscape enjoyment, matters which
experience  proving to have very real influence on the
health, happiness and economic efficiency of industrial communities, Holyoke has in the waters and shores of the Connecticut river. and in the spacious scenery of which the .
river is the heart. commanded as it is from many en elevated
outlook, an asset of immense future value if wisely conserved and utilized. It is very little used at present and
might readily be made to bring in much greater public
Income of pleasure and reereation by moderate expend)ture for making it more conveniently available, but. its
greatest value lies in the future when the need of the community for such opportunities of recreation shall be greater
and more pressing. The fact that perhaps not ten people
In Vear’s time now visit certain point of view looking
out over the river, that it is at present hard to get at. and
that there are too many branches of trees obscuring the ontlook to permit its full appreciation, dees not alter the fact
that the landscape is such one as artists have devoted their
lives to interpreting, such as brings real refreshment and
Inspiration to those who look upon it even though they be
quite innoeent of conscious analysis of their appreciation,
and such as will therefore afford pleasure and health of
spirit to thousands of people in the future if the opportunity
is preserved and ultimately developed.

|
.
CITY BEAUTIFUL  

The same kind of considerations apply to much of the
landscape of the hill country west of the town and especially to that lying about the reservoirs, as discussed more
specifically.

But before coming to specific comments upon the opportunities and needs which appealed to us in our rapid survey
of Holvoke., in order to maintain some rational order in
what must be rather fragmentary remarks, we beg to point
out certain divisions of the subject to which we shall adhere.

The physical aspect of city as affecting its convenlence and attractiveness for residence and business purposes is mainly dependent, so far as it is under direct municipal control, upon the distribution and treatment of three
kinds of spaces: First, public and quasi-public ways, ineluding streets, allevs, railways, canals and water courses;
second, areas devoted specifically to pubhe recreation; third,
other pubhie grounds and buildings.

Our observations were confined practically to the first —
two subjects and are discussed under the following heads:

 Public and quasi-public ways.

Location of ways:

Main thoroughfares and loeal streets.

Electrie railways.

Steam railways.

Example, Northampton street.

Example, Roads to the west.
Mainteanee and improvemens of ways:

Street surfacing.

Street trees.

Overhead wires and poles. |

Other highway accessories.

Treatment of canals.

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
II. Public recreation grounds.
Playgrounds.
Function of neighborhood recreation grounds.
. Selection of sites.
Special park sites:
Prospect Park.
North Bluff.
South Bluff.
The River’s edge.
Outlying reservations.
I. PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC WAYS. |
Location of ways:
The layout of public ways is one of the most funda. mentally important matters affecting the development of a
eity, because no features in the strucure of city except
large water courses and great hills are so permanent. so
hard to change, none more seriously affect the convenience
and economy of daily hfe, and few have so great an influence in determining the distribution and character of all
the other structures and improvements.

In all the central part of Holyoke the street lavout is
fully determined, for the most part reasonably well, and
there is no need of praising its good points or pointing out
where it might have heen bettered. The street svstem  s
fully developed, however. within an area occupying considerably less than fifth of the whole city, and in the gradual prosperous growth of the population this percentage is
steadily imereasing. In the ten vears ending with  
the extent of accepted streets was increased per ceat.
Looking to the distant future there is no pubhe problem in
the present determination of which keen and farseeing inteligence will bring greater return than in this matter

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
of the layout of public ways in those parts of the city not
now fully developed in that regard.

City streets usually get laid out in one of three ways.
Some are old country ‘thoroughfares absorbed into the growing town. These are apt to be tolerably direct and convenient lines of travel between important points, especially on
radial lines between the central business district of the city
and subordinate outlying centers; but they are apt to be
much too narrow for the traffic ultimately thrown upon them
unless they are widened in good season, and, especially in a
hilly region, they are sometimes impeded by steep grades or
bad turns the elimination of which may have seemed too
eostly in proportion to the original country traffic but which
later put burden upon the dense urban traffic for the removal of which the city would gladly pay many times the
original saving, with compound interest to boot.

Unfortunately, by the time this state of mind is reached

the street is usually lined with properties so valuable that
any radical change has become prohibitively costly and the
inconvenience and burden of the steep grade or the dangerous corner has to be endured for generations or for centuries.

Other city streets are laid out by land owners solely
as means of giving access to the maximum number of marketable lots within the tract they are subdividing, and are
subsequently accepted by the city. Unless the tract is a
very large one or rather remote from existing main thoroughfares. streets laid out in this way are usually devised
only to meet purely local needs, are therefore relatively
narrow, and if they do afford any through lines of communication of value to the business of the city at large do
so only in an incidental way, by accident, and usually in a
more or less inadequate and unsatisfactory manner.

In the third place, it sometimes happens that the municipal authorities or large land companies lay out comprehensive street plans with the deliberate intention of provid  CITY BEAUTIFUL

ing adequately and conveniently for the general and
through traffic as well as for merely local access to private
land frontage. This last was done in the original layout of
the central part of Holyoke and has been done and is being
done every year by many progressive American cities in a
more or less successful manner.

The difficulty with many of these deliberately adopted
street plans has been twofold. In the first place they have
been too rigid, so that the blocks have turned out to be inconveniently small in some districts (as for example where
large manufacturing plants have developed, necessitating
either the abandonment of some of the streets or the inconvenient separation of different parts of the same plant by
public thoroughfares) and have turned out to be inconventently large in other districts (as for example in the cheaper
residence districts, where land has been wasted in the backs
of long lots or where ineonvenient and unsanitary ‘‘back
tenements’? have been put up behind the buildings on the
street frontage in order to utilize the land more fully. In the
second place.in attempting to settle at one time the layout of
all the streets that would ever be needed in large territory,
the projectors of such plans have usually been led to do
their planning hastily and without very careful or thorough
study of grades or of the relation of the streets to the natural conditions of the ground, so that while the final result
may be on the average pretty good. it may happen that few,
if anv, of the streets afford first-class lines of travel on
easy grades and that most of them cost good deal more to
construct than if they had been carefully laid out with regard to the slope and character of the ground and the requirements of the probable traffic after the manner always
emploved in fixing railroad location.

Main Thoroughfares and Local Streets.

On the whole the wisest policy appears to be that of

distincuishing clearly between main thoroughfares and local

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
streets, and of laying out on paper long in advance, tolerably complete system of consisting main thoroughfares only
for the whole city, some following existing streets without
proposal of change, some following existing ways but proposing certain widenings, straightenings, extensions or changes
of grade, and some wholly independent of existing ways.
With such system of well planned main thoroughfares on
file. as basis subject to revision and improvement, it is possible from time to time for city officials, by keeping watch
upon the development of outlying districts, to secure the
widenings and other condemnations necessary for the ultimate establishment of the main thoroughfares in advance of
prohibitive inerease of real estate values, but without burdening the city with lot of needless streets by precipitate
action; while the provision of intermediate local streets can
safely be left in large measure to the initiative of the land
owners as at present.

Electric Railways.

The purpose of any system of main thoroughfares is of
course to faeilitate the transportation of goods and people
between points of city not closely adjacent by concentrating such travel in streams of sufficient volume to justify the
cost of obtaining for them especially good grades. especially easy and durable pavements and other facilities for
rapid and cheap transportation. One of the quickest and
cheapest means of transportation for passengers is of course
the electric railway, and the systematic arrangement of locations for such railway lines, both within streets devoted to
other forms of wheeled traffic and upon special rights of
way for the safe attainment of higher speeds on the longer
trunk lines forms distinct part of the main thoroughfare

. problem. The adequate development of the trolley system
with view to the interests of the city as whole will have
a marked influence upon the latitude of choice open to the
average working man in the selection of his dwelling place.

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
and by thus giving him opportunity of securing greater
comfort, healthfulness and economy in his home will conduce to greater efficiency and lower cost of production in
 the industries of the city. Some one representing the interests of the city as whole ought therefore, in connection
with any general study of street layout, to take an active
and constructive part in the planning for future extensions
and improvements in the electric railway lines operating
in the city. Any such planning to be of real value must be
done in close co-operation with the management of the lines,
and such co-operation is very difficult to bring about; but
the possible results are worth much persistent effort.

Unless such active and constructive co-operation  s
brought about, the practical alternative is for the city to
leave the initiative in developing the railways system exclusively to the representatives of the investors and to vecupy position of more or less obstructive criticism toward
their proposals whenever they are not conspicuously for
the immediate advantage of the public. This anatgonistic
attitude and the lack of correlation between plans for future
improvements in highway layout and plans for the electric
railway layout cannot result in the best and most economical
service to the people or in the largest fair profit to the railway investors, and it js an attitude which constantly offers
an inducement to underhand dealings between agents of
the two parties, to pohey of secrecy and indirection on
the part of the pubhe service corporations, and to municipal corruption.

Steam Railways.

The steam railways, although less intimately connected
with the problems of street lavout than the eleetrie railways, nevertheless are involved as part of the main thoroughfare system, because convenience, safety and economy
in the method of providing for crossings of the steam roads
with the main streets and electric lines affect all parties

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
concerned and the best results are usually to be secured only
by adjustments on the part of all the parties. Moreover, it
is essential to the success of manufacturing community
that the facilities of the railroads, especially for handling
freight, should be such as to make for speed and economy
of operation. Ample and convenient trackage and room
for railroad expansion ought to be allowed for in planning
street improvements and in laying out parks and other pubhe works, while on the other hand it is important for the
city to see that freight vards and other items of railroad
equipment are not located needlessly, in such way as to
interfere with public improvements that are likely to be required in the future or so as to depreciate property values
in districts better adapted to residence than to commeree.

Upon this subject of the main transportation lines of
the city we can only speak thus in general terms, because it
is so complex problem that we could not intelligently form
any definite opinions as to what should be done tipon the

| basis of our brief examination of the situation. Just by
way of example, however, it may be well to refer to two
examples taken somewhat at random.
Example—Northampton Street.

Northampton street, apart from its local functions,
serves as the main highway for through travel north and
south along the west side of the Connecticut river, and with
the steady, gradual seeular growth of population in the
Connecticut valley towns and in the increase in the demands
of general travel by trolley, by automobile and by other
vehicles, the volume of traffic thrown upon this street by
outside development entirely apart from the growth of ITolyoke is likely to be enormously greater than anything this
generation has been thinking about. At the same time the
growth of Holyoke itself is pushing steadily westward so
that Northampton street, which lay entirely bevond the
original development as planned by the Power Company,
has already become recognized as within the westerly edge

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
of urban development. and is destined before long to become one of the main arteries of the residential district.
A recognition of its growing importanee has led to the  mprovement of certain portions of the street. but at places
it is extremely narrow and nowhere has it breadth commensurate with the probable importance of its future traffic.
A considerabie development of building is likely to take
place along it within the next few years, and although there
appears to be disposition on the part of those who build
here to set their houses back pretty well from the present
street line. there is no telling when costly improvements
may be put in close to the hne, greatly to the embarrassment of the city when the widening is forced upon it. Provision clearly ought to be made for great thoroughfare
from the West Springfield lines to the Northampton line,
having space within its side Hine not only for ample road
surface, but for electrie car tracks on separate reservation and for rows of spreading elm treets such as have for
vears given the main streets of so many Conneeticut river
towns their characteristie beauty. It  matter for close
and deliberate study whether such thoroughfare can be
most economically and advantageously obtained by follewing throughout the present lne of Northampton. street.
Ingleside street and the Southern end of Springfield street,
or by adopting in whole or in part new route more or less
parallel thereto. Again it is question for close and businesslike investigation how fast it will pay te prod with
the acquisition of property for such thoroughfare and
with its construction. But there ean be no question that it
will pay to look into the matter promptly and after deciding on the most feasible boundaries take steps to prevent
the erection of new buildings within them.
Example—Roads to the West.

The above is eited merely as an instance. Other examples may be found in the ultimate necessity for first rate

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
thoroughfares connecting the heart of the city with its western territory and the country bevond. The present roads
afford remarkably charming drives, so far as scenery  concerned, but for practical purposes and for comfort in the
enjoyment of the scenery, they leave much to be desired.
They have some dangerous bends and many excessively
steep grades which cannot be materially improved on the
present location and which will not only offer serious permanent impediment to travel, no matter how much the road
surface may be improved in course of time, but will greatly
add to the cost of maintaining good road surface. Of
course it is impossible to build road over mountain
ridge without having to climb, but there is great difference between road well engineered and one that is laid
out at random lke most of the old country roads. Probably careful investigation would show that long stretches
of the present roads could be adopted into well planned
system of main thoroughfares.leaving out the steepest and
erookedest parts to remain as local roads and providing as
® substtiute for them moderate nuileage of new conneetions on reasonable grades and good lines. Tf such svstem of well planned highways were adopted, it would make
It possible even before any of the new sections were underiaken, to do certain amount of improvement on the existing roads without risk of wasting money on sections that
are likely to have only local importance in the future.
No street railway company, if it could help it, would spend
money on locations so unfortunately laid out as most of the
existing roads across the mountain, as witness the private
Jocation purchased most of the way for the line to West
Holvoke, and the same class of business reasons are just as
appheable to the spending of city money ino eonstructing |
and maintaining good macadamized roads across the mountain. Tt may be some vears before such improvements are
actually undertaken, but that they will be made sooner or
later is as vertei as the march of civilization. The only

  CITY BEAULIFUL

question is whether they will be made so as to get the best
results for the money expended or whether they will be
done extravagantly by the gradual piecemeal improvement
of the present imperfect locations.

In any readjustment of these hill roads it should be
borne in mind that an important part of their value, over
and above their necessary use as transportation channels,
lies in their pleasantness due to the trees and other vegeta- |

 tion with which they are bordered and to the wider landscapes through which they pass. It is desirable, therefore,
that they should be laid out wide enough to give ample
space for the maintenance of such bordering vegetation.
that some regard should be paid to agreeableness of line and
grade and of surroundings, and that under favorable conditions the permanence of exceptionally fine views from them
should be ensured by the public control of the foregrounds
over which the views pass.
Improvement and Maintenance of Ways.

While the proper location of the main thoroughfares
is of the most fundamental importance, because its effect
never ceases, the convemence and attractiveness of the city
at any given time is much more innmediately dependent
upon the temporary physical condition of streets, as to pavement, sidewalks and accessories. In these regards, while
Holvoke is probably better off that. the average, it does not
strike the casual observer as strikingly different from other
American cities of similar size and prosperity, in all of which
there Is much room for improvement.

Street Surfacing.

‘*Leaving aside the question of street surfacing, the
proper handling of which depends upon perfectly wellknown engineering consideration and the success of whieh
is therefore mainly matter of straightforward good adCITY BEAUTIFUL  
ministration within the limits permitted by municipal finance, there are two matters of detail which markedly affect
the appearance of the streets and which deserve special
reference.’’

The first is that of street trees.

Street Trees.

The presence of trees in the streets and their maintenance or neglect may be left, and in many communities  s
left, to chance and private initiative. If this poley is pursued the inevitable result, with the growth of city, is the
gradual disappearance of street trees following long perivd of raggedness and shabby decline. Halfhearted and unsystematic efforts on the part of the municipality may prolong the period of decline, arrest it sporadically, or sporadically establish new rows of shade trees. but if satisfactory results are to be secured the matter has to be taken up seriouslv and systematically with fair counting of the cost, because here as elsewhere it is impossible to get something for
nothing and under the arduous conditions to be found in the
city streets any trees worth the having can be permanently
maintained only by systematic and somewhat costly care—
and that care must be directed not so much to immediate
conditions and results as to conditions and results years in
the future, because the principal returns from any experditures on streets can be obtained only after long period.
It takes about twenty vears before planted trees begin to be
really fine. and their lifetime thereafter, if wise precautions
have been taken in planting and caring for them, is apt to
be anywhere from twenty-five to hundred years or more,
The return is an annual one, and it is obvious that the biggest returns on any investment in the planting and maintenance of street trees are to be secured only when steps are
taken to secure those returns during long period of Years
after the time the trees have reached respectable size.

  CITY BEAUTIFUL

The usual methods are such that city street trees begin
to go to the bad long before they reach the period of their
full value, and by far the major part of the expected return
upon the investment is entirely lost.

In street paving the customary American policy of putting down good pavement and then disregarding the ma:ntenance work which might greatly extend its life is acknowledged to be wasteful policy, but in any case the pavement
is at its best in the beginning and it is only matter of rate
of depreciation. In the case of street trees, on the other
hand, under good and systematic management they improve
in value steadily for two or three generations. and the lack
of adequate measures for insuring permanently good conditions for them not merely euts down the period during
which returns will be received on the investment, but cuts
it down at the big end, where the value of the annual return wold ke the greatest.

In every city there are many streets where it would

| eost more to establish and maintain good and long-lived
trees than they would be worth. In some streets it pays
best to maintain cheap quick-growing trees for few vears
at time, in some streets no trees at all. in some streets
trees of compact small-growing habit, in others trees of
great height and spread like the American elm. These
questions an be intelligently decided only after full eonsideration of such questions as the width of street and sidewalk, the present and prospective character of oecupaucy
and amount of travel, the character of the subsoil and exposure, and the possibility and estimated cost of establishing and maintaiing successfully eertain alternative stvles
of street tree plantations.

To handle this street tree problem in businesslike way
each street or distinct portion of street ought to be taken
up on its own merits, in relation to its surroundings and
conditions, and after reasonable inquiry into the faets and
consultation with the abuttors by hearings or otherwise it

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
should be decided what definite policy it will best pay to
adopt in regard to trees in that street during the next fifty
or seventy-five years, considering the probable results of
the proposed policy and facing the necessary cost fairly and
equarely,

General recommendations as to the street trees, without |
such specific businesslike inquiry in each ease, are dangeroue; but we are inclined to think that in great many instances such inquiry would lead to the adoption of something like one of the three following conelusions:

Either (A) that on account of the narrowness of the
street or the existence or expectation of flat-houses or commercial buildings with their windows close to the edge of
the narrow sidewalk, making the dense shade of the street
trees objectionable, or of adverse growing conditions and
high estimated eost of sussfully maintaining trees, it
will not pay to maintain trees in the street under consideration, and that any existing trees may be allowed to remain
Without much expenditure for care until they prove to be
in the way or until they become shabby, when they should
be removed. Or (B) that it will pay to make the most of
the existing trees in given street and to supplement them.
In such ease it will generally pay to remove considerable number of the existing trees. as they are very generally
growing much too erowded for the best results, and as some
of them are diseased, and it will generally be desirable to
fill in numerous gaps in the planting, to take measures for
Improving the soil or irrigating the trees or both, to prune
out dead and diseased wood on trees worth doctoring, to |
protect the trees against barking by horses and injury by
Insects and other pests. and to provide for subsequent renewals in case of death or injury. Or (C) that it will pay
to establish complete new plantation of specified kind of
trees, with proper detailed provisions for their permanent
successful maintenance.

Perhaps in the majority of cases conclusion (A) may

  CITY BEAUTIFUL

be reached. Practically that is about what the present procedure appears to correspond with in most instances. But
it does not seem wise to drift into that pohey without a
deliberate decision that it is the best thing to do under the
circumstances in each particular case. There must be instances where conclusions (B) or (C) would be reached if
the case were fairly considered, and where the necessary
money for carrying out the proper policy would be at once
forthcoming either from the abuttors or from the general
tax levy or otherwise if the situation were squarely faced
and fully understood. But one thing is certain, that city
cannot permanently have street trees worth the having unless somebody does lot of systematic and intelligent work
toward maintaining them, and that much work cannot be
done unless the money is put up for it.

In the city of Hartford detailed inventory of street
trees has been taken. The valuation placed on the individ- |
ual trees, although of necessity somewhat arbitrary, is generally accepted by the interested abuttors as fair. perfect
specimen of the best species of tree, properly placed and free
from disease or injury, with trunk having cross section
area of one square foot, is reekoned as worth but the
average street tree scales down considerably below this
value in the inventory. 

On any residenee street lined by rows of beautiful,

; large, healthy trees, one to every fifty foot lot, it would
be hard to find any abuttors who would be ready to aecept
  as adequate personal compensation if telephone company, for example, should propose to cut down all the trees
in the street; and it would be difficult to win the consent
of most of the abuttors to such devastation even for a
much larger cash consideration. This method of looking at
the subject perhaps gives as fair an idea of the real value |
to the abuttors of well grown street trees as can easily he
got and it suggests that the Hartford method of valuing
the trees is probably conservative. We have figures cov|
I
|
CITY BEAUTIFUL |
|
ering about three quarters of the city prepared on the basis
above described and the total value of the public investment in street trees in that area reaches the sum of about
$ |
We cite this instance because few people realize that
the shade tree business, if the city is going into it at
all. is big and serious business and that if adequate returns are to be secured on the investment the business has
got to be handled in businesslike way and with reasonable and proportionate relation between the annual expenditure for protection, maintenance, renewal, ete., and the
total value of the result aimed at.
If, on the other hand, the city decides that it does not
want or cannot afford anything better than ragged rows of
crowded trees, gradually starving and dying off before they
reach their prime through lack of adequate food water and
air and through untreated injuries to ‘their bark, limbs and
foliage, it may reasonably let the matter go along in the
usual half-hearted way with the usual results.
Overhead Wires and Poles.
Next to shade trees the most conspicuous objects in the
streets are the poles and overhead wires, and it is needless
to say that, unlike the trees, they do not ordinarily improve
the aspect of the city. It is hardly necessary to refer to
this subject at length. Every one agrees that it is desirable
to get rid of the poles and overhead wires as much and as
rapidly as is economically reasonable. The difference of
opinion comes as to when the reasonable period for putting
the wires underground has arrived.
The companies maintaining the wires will not remove
them to conduits except under pressure, and it is up to the
pubhe to put on the screws without being unfair. It is
quite impossible to Judge when the pressure is unduly great
by the squealing of the victim; some managers make loud
outery on general principles whenever the word ‘‘eonduit’’
is mentioned.

  CITY BEAUTIFUL

It is essential to take the matter up thoroughly. to aseertain the facts, not merely by asking the companies but
by the employment of eompetent experts representing the
eity, and after due consultation with the companies to fix
upon definite plan for removing overhead wires and street

 poles in given districts at given dates, taking due legal measures to enforce compliance.

Few realize the great importance of this matter as
affecting the appearance of the city because custom gradually blunts our sensibility to the effeet of the wires and poles.
They are like an irritating little noise to which one gets so
accustomed as not to notice it at all until it ceases: then one
suddenly become aware of grateful refreshing quietness.

The important though subconscious part plaved by the
disorderly tangle of overhead wires, cross-arms and poles
in decreasing the agreeableness of Holvoke was. strongly
brought home to us on the last day of our visit as follows:
Standing on one of the canal bridges we felt vaguely reminded of some very pleasant scenes in The Hague and
other Dutch cities. There was the canal, not quite pellucid
but considerably cleaner than the average eanal in picturesque Amsterdam; there were green banks along its sides
with occasional trees here and there upon them: bevond
were factories, not unpicturesque in outline; and on neighboring street corner was really beautiful mass of tree foliage happily illuminated by the sun. And vet. somehow, it
was very different from the Dutch seene wheh it called to
mind; something gave it slovenly, sordid aspect: the trail
of the serpent was over it all.

It was only by going slowly through the mental process of painter who would attempt to render the beauty
sugested by the scene without its depressing quality. that
we came to realize how much the picture suffered by the
disfigurement of the pure soft sky with sharp streaks of
wire and ungainly poles and harsh bunches of eross-arms.

The only thing the eve can rest upon in city that is

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
not necessarily controlled by man, either for good or for
bad, is the sky; and while we are most actively conscious of
the objects on or near the ground, with which we have immediate practical concern, our feelings of pleasure or depression are largely dependent upon the subconscious effect
of the ever-present sky, whether it be bright and soft and
beautiful, or overcast with clouds or smoke, or obscured
with ugly and inharmonious objects of human interjection.
Both in the slightness of the impression it ordinarily makes
on the attention and in its immense real effect upon the general sense of pleasure or discomfort, the appearance of the
sky and what is seen against it may be compared with the
purity of the air habitually breathed or with the degree of
noise or quiet in habitual surroundings. The nervous system can be adjusted to almost any constant surroundings
so that they cease to be noticeable, no matter how noisy or
how foul, but the effect of the conditions upon the health
of the nervous system and upon the general sense of wellbeing does not cease when the attention becomes blunted.

A more immediately striking instance of the damaging
effect of poles and wires is to be seen in the splendid view
up the Connecticut river from Prospect park. Here the
injury is so obvious and the remedy so easy that there should .
be no serious difficulty in arranging to have the wires strung,
in cables or otherwise, on low posts or brackets against the
bank of the park so that the view would pass out over them
without obstruction.

Other Highway Accessories.

Other objects within highway limits, lamp posts, street
signs, hydrants, etc., and especially large structures like
bridges, offer in their location and design an interminable
series of problems, both large and small, calling for the
joint application of technical knowledge, artistic skill and
good common sense. In proportion as these qualities are
jointly applied to all of such problems the streets of the

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
city will improve and in proportion as any or all of these
qualities are left out of consideration the streets will suffer.
It is only by unusual good fortune that city can fill its
service with men who are thoroughly and adequately strong
in all three of the requisite qualities, and practically in order
to accomplish good results, the most important thing is that
there should be clear recognition of the natural human
limitations of responsible officials and that they should be
provided with assistants or with consulting advisors competent to help them out on their short suits. An official
may be somewhat short on artistic skill or on technical
knowledge or even on both provided he has common sense
and the desire and opportunity to get the co-operation of
people who are long where he is short, and he will get good
results. But somehow or other all three of the above qualities must be brought to bear or the results will be relatively
unsatisfactory.
Assuming that the leading responsible officials are reasonably long on common sense it ought to be possible to
: secure as assistants, if reasonably permanent tenure could
be assured, men having both technical and artistic training.
But aside from any doubts about the above premises, it is
very hard to find assistants having technical training in
municipal construction work who have any artistic training
at all. The artistic aspect of construction work is so generally ignored in the training of civil engineers and most
architects and architectural draughtsmen are so lacking in
the particular kind of technical knowledge required in municipal work, that the right combination is very hard to find.
Men with sound professional training as landscape architects might come httle nearer to filling the bill than architects, but the number of such men available as municipal
employees is too small to be worth mentioning. Practically
dependence must be placed mainly on securing assistants
whose training has been along engineering lines, leavened
if possible by small proportion who have had artistic training in architecture or otherwise, and on supplementing this

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
somewhat one-sided agency by the occasional or regular
services of consulting architect and consulting landscape
architect.

Of course when it comes to the design of school house
or the laying out of park, or the adoption of radically
new water supply or sewage system, it is customary and
proper to select and employ for that special undertaking
an expert who has proved by his work elsewhere that he
has special skill in dealing with such problem.But it is
neither convenient nor economical nor productive of harmonious results to parcel out all the minor constructional
problems of city among independent professional men.
Up to certain limit of magnitude and difficulty the prob' lems ought to be dealt with by departmental force, the
responsible executive head of which is normally an engineer.
In cities of moderate size there is one such department under
a city engineer, and in very large cities several such departments, under independent chief engineers. But in any case
the quality of work turned out by such city departments
is apt to be of better all round quality if the responsible
executive head has the privilege of informal consultation
with certain other experts, especially on artistic matters.
The city of New York has recently established the office of
consulting architect to the board of estimate and apportionment, an officer who is debarred from undertaking any
architectural work for the city on his own account, but —
whose advice as consultant is open to any of the city departments that prepare projects for construction to be passed
on by the board. The principle is sound one and ought to
be more generally applied.

Treatment of Canal Banks.

The broad canals running through the heart of the manufacturing district form one of the most interesting and
characteristic features of the city plan. They oecupy a
good deal of space and it is obviously desirable to secure

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
as an incident to their main use (as by-product of the development of power, so to speak) as large return as possible in the way of public enjoyment. They are to be seen
and enjoyed from the bridges and, in the case of the second
and third level canals, from the adjacent street, and the
first consideration for increasing the public enjoyment they
give is to avoid needless hindrances and defects in the means
of outlook upon them. The outlook from the bridges is
generally easy and unobstructed, although views from the
roadway and from the far sidewalk across the width of the
bridge are sometimes encumbered by trusses rising above
the deck of the bridge and by the unnecessary height of the
handrail or parapet, and generally the design of the handrail leaves good deal to be desired in respect to graceful
simplicity. These are matters to be dealt with from time to
time as the old bridges are reconstructed or new bridges
built. From this point of view, regardless of the appearance of the bridges as seen from distance, it may be said
as general rule that it is desirable to keep the supporting
members of new bridges entirely below the deck, leaving it
unencumbered, and to make the rails or parapets rather
lower than those at present used and expend good deal
of careful artistic study upon the design of the rail or parapet, not with the purpose of elaborating or ‘‘decorating”’
it but of making it serve the purpose of safeguarding passengers in the least conspicuous and ostentatious way, and
yet, so far as it draws attention at all, to be graceful and
pleasantly proportioned. The simplicity of the railing on
the Appleton street bridge over the second level canal is
; very pleasing, for example, as contrasted with the rather
clumsy elaboration of the rails on some of the other bridges.
In the instanees where street follows beside one of the
eanals it is obviously desirable if the landscape value of the
eanals is to be appreciated that it should be brought as intimately into view from the street as possible. close high
board fence would be an obvious mistake, but even the prevailing fence of close-set pickets is high enough to cut off

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
at least the nearer part of the water from view except when
one is leaning over it or walking close beside it. It would
not do to omit the fence, but much lower and more open
guard rail would probably answer every practical purpose
about as well, with great gain in the agreeableness of the
street. If when the fence is about to be renewed there
should be erected in its place one consisting of simple and
well proportioned and well spaced concrete posts carrying
two iron pipe rails there would be great gain in appearance as well as in durability. It is needless to say that such .
a fence might be so designed as to be either ugly or beautiful in its proportions; but it would at least open up the
views of the canal to much better advantage than at present.

In considering what could be done to increase the ‘‘byproduct of beauty’’ derived from the canals incidentally to
their primary purpose, it is necessary to distinguish between
those canal banks which are occupied for manufacturing
purposes and those which are bordered by public street.
In the first case there is usually, but not always, narrow
lane or private way close to the canal, sometimes with a
sloping bank between and sometimes with only space enough
for guard rail on top of vertical retaining wall. Beyond
the lane there are normally factory buildings of all sorts of
heights and shapes interspersed with yards and occasional
waste spaces and openings left for light and air or for possible future use. Here and there tree or short row of
trees pushes up mass of foliage out of one of these spaces.
There is no uniformity or regularity. nor ean there be; but
if one looks along one of these canals in the twilight or on
a hazy day when only the broad masses of light and shade
ean be seen and when hard and ugly details are obscured,
the effect is distinctly picturesque. The necessarily varying uses of these banks and the fact that anything done
toward making them more beautiful must necessarily hold
its place on very uncertain tenure, hable to unexpected
change here and there according to the varying demands
of dozens of different industrial establishments, points clear  CITY BEAUTIFUL
ly toward the wisdom of accepting this accidental and pieturesque quality and making the most of it while endeavoring to soften and obscure, as far as may be, harsh and unpleasing details. The two simplest things to do looking
toward those ends are the planting of creepers to grow on
the buildings and the planting of trees at numerous places
where they are not likely to be in the way, taking pains to
use trees of number of different kinds, having considerable variety of growth as to height, spread and general
. character. This variety is desirable partly for practical
reasons, because in some of the available situations large
growing tree would ultimately be nuisance while small
one would have plenty of space for growth and partly for
the sake of consistent irregularity of appearance.

The accompanying list of trees and creepers may be suggestive, if in selecting and planting them these points are
borne in mind, viz.: There must be suitable soil conditions. If where tree or creeper is wanted there is not
beneath the surface an amply sufficient depth and extent of
suitable soil the material must be excavated and replaced
by good soil and manure or else the planting might better
be omitted; and the fitness of the soil can only be judged :
by man who has good working knowledge of soils and
ornamental planting. There should be intelligent discrimination in avoiding at each particular spot any tree
the natural shape or size of which when fully grown is likely
to make it an eneumbrance. Finally, within the limits
of choice left open by these practical requirements, the
spacing of the trees, especially in the narrow strip along the
eanal, should be very irregular and there should be studied
irregularity in the distribution of the different kinds of
trees.

Along those banks of the canals which are bordered by
streets the conditions are different and it is fairly open |
ehoive whether to adopt simple orderly row of large-growIng trees or to continue the irregular treatment. Where

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
there are occasional existing trees worth saving or in cases
where it is unsafe to calculate upon reasonably systematic
care in the future, the irregular type of treatment would be
the more reasonable; but ordinarily where the conditions are
fairly uniform for long stretch it would be better to adopt
a single kind of tree and plant in regular row.

II. Public Recreation Grounds.

It is coming to be more and more clearly and widely recognized that sustained high efficiency on the part of our
productive workers, both mental and manual, is dependent
not only upon adequate food and healthful dwellings, but
upon reasonable amount of proper physical exercise and
outdoor recreation, especially during adolescence but also
in some degree during mature life. Normal children will
take all the exercise and outdoor recreation they need if
given fair opportunity to do so; intelligent and successful
business and professional men have the means to do so if
they choose, and are gradually learning, under the penalty .
of physical or mental breakdown, that they must choose—
Witness the increase of country clubs and the increasing
average length of vacations among such men; the bulk of
the working population has as yet neither the instinct nor
the intelligence to take such exercise and recreation unless
the means of doing so are made convenient and attractive.

Obviously the public is bound to safeguard the health
and efficiency first of the growing generation, and next of
that part of the present productive population that is least
provided with the means and knowledge for taking care of
itself. We shall therefore first consider playgrounds and
then provisions for other kinds of public recreation usually
classed under the head of parks.

Playgrounds.

In the past the children of Holvoke cannot have suffered very seriously from any insufficiency in area of public

  CITY BEAUTIFUL

playgrounds, not only because the city was small enough to
have extensive tracts of vacant land open to them on the
nearby outskirts, but because there have been scattered
throughout the manufacturing district unoccupied blocks of
land held by the Water Power Company to which the boys
have had free access until from time to time they have been
occupied by new factories.

The time is past, however, when Holyoke can wisely adhere to this ‘‘village’’ policy of leaving the children to find
their own playgrounds. If there are to be playgrounds
within reasonable distance of the children’s homes they must
be provided by the city, Just as surely as water has to be
so supplied after the village period of private wells has
passed.

An examination of the school grounds in the city shows
that this situation has been recognized and an intelligent
attempt made by the city authorities and by the parochial
schools to provide playground space in connection with the
school houses. On the whole the school grounds of Holyoke
impress visitor as being rather more ample and more intelhigently laid out than usual. But that is not saying that
they meet the needs of the situaion by any means. There is
yet no generally accepted standard as to the extent of school
grounds or the character of their equipment by which the
actual provision in Holyoke can be measured. Reference is
occasionally made to the figure of square feet of playground per capita of school attendance, regarded as reasonable minimum by the educational authorities in London.
But this is to be considered not as standard of what city
ought to provide, but distinctly as minimum below which
the inadequacy of the playground area becomes so intolerable that it cannot reasonably be borne even in crowded
London with its high land values. It is to be borne in mind,
too, that ordinarily and properly considerable fraction of
the lot outside of school building is occupied by steps, by
area-ways, and by spaces set apart for decorative plantations of trees, shrubs, vines and turf. On large lots the area

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
so withdrawn from actual usable playground need be only
a small fraction but on small lots it often oecupies the major
part of the space; not infrequently, in practice, there is no
playground space left at all and the children are crowded
into the streets. On school lots of restricted area it would
perhaps be fair to assume that two-thirds of the area outside the building could be made completely available for
playing, although that is probably larger proportion than —
is attained on the average in Holvoke. On this basis. allowing square feet of actual playing space to each child, the
minimum allowance of school grounds outside the building
should be square feet per capita.

The following table shows the area of school vards in
relation to number of pupils in all the Holyoke sehools for
Which we secured definite data.

TABLE SHOWING AREAS OF SCIIOOL LOTS IN HOLYOKE, MASS., IN RELATION TO NUMBER

OF PUPILS.

No, Open

Name of Building. Area of Covered ‘Aves Belenp- Per

Lot by Bld’g of Lot ing Capita

Sq. Ft. Sq. Ft oq. Ft. Sq. Et.

Appleton St. School,  

Bridge St. School,  

Elm St. School,  d

Hamilton St. School,  

High School,   
Hiehland Grammar,  

Nonotuck St. Sehool,  

No. Chestnut St. School,   ,

Park St. School,  

Sargeant St. School, 

Springdale Grammar,  

West Street Grammar,  

So. Chestnut St. School,  

  CITY BEAUTIFUL

It will be seen that half of these schools, attended by
o  per cent of the children, have an allowance less than che
minimum above discussed.

But it does not follow that the remaining per cent
of the children have even the minimum allowance of playing
space. The high school, for example, although it has at
present an allowance of square feet of ground per pupil
has not one square foot of playground, the whole area being
occupied in lawn, paths and decorative planting. Moreover, the character of the building and its position on the
lot are such that it would be difficult if not impossible to

: provide even the minimum of square feet of playground
for each pupil without making rather ugly botch of the
grounds and seriously impairing the dignity and aesthetic
value of this important public monument.

But aside from general deficiency in area and deeidedly inequitable distribution of that area, there is a
marked shorteoming in two particulars. All of the playgrounds are plain open gravel areas, sometimes shaded with
trees and in few instances made attractive by little shrub
planting in protected corners and strips about the edges.
At its best this type of playground is undoubtedly the most
profitable way to utilize the major portion of the average
school ground. It provides place for great variety of
coneentrated active play on the part of children of the middle and upper grammar school grades. The hurly-burly of
such playground, however, does not provide properly for
the very young children in the lower grades. They need
playground spaces separate from the rough activities of the
older children where they can have some special provisions
for their own kind of play, sueh as sand boxes, and where
they can have nice clean lawn to play on, for under the
moderate stress of such little children’s play it is possible |
to maintain turf which would not outlast single season
under the trampling of the larger boys and girls. At the
other end of the scale, the lack of differentiation in the playCITY BEAUTIFUL  
grounds bears hardest upon the older girls, who have, normally and properly, neither the strength nor the disposition
to take part in the rough and active play of the general play- ground; but it is also true that the older boys need much
larger space per capita than the average for all school ages
and with their increasing strength and energy and  independence need more specialized athletic provisions and more
skilful guidance and control if their energies are to be kept
in profitable channels.

That pregnant saving, ‘*The boy without playground
is father of the man without job,’’ applies particularly to
the period of the upper grammar school grades and at the
high school, when energies are most active, when the influence of other vouths who have passed beyond school control is
strongest, and when undesirable habits and associations are
most likely to be formed. And it is just here, by providing
adequately for healthy athletie sports not confined to the
school bovs but open also to the young men who have passed
heyond the school age, that an immensely valuable opportunity exists for mending the weakest spot in our educational systein. It is most pernicious but most widespread
idea that education and the regular business of life are two
distinct things and that education normally stops when productive work begins. .An immense educational value flows
from the indirect personal influence on the pupils exerted by
men and women of the sort that make good school-teachers,
and to extend this personal influence beyond the tasks of
the school room and especially beyond the school age into
the period after wage-earning begins would save many
voung working people from setthng down suddenly to a
life made up of productive drudgery on the one hand and
of unprofitable amusement and loafing on the other.
Function of Neighborhood Reereation Grounds.

The playground and athletic field for the older school
boys and for young men, the outdoor gymnasuim and the
evmnasium under shelter, with its accompanying facilities

  CITY BEAUTIFUL

for personal cleanliness, both for boys and men and for girls
and women, and the association of these things when under
publie control with the influences of school and public lhibrary or when under private control with the infiuence of
religion, as in the work of the Young Men’s Christian association, are current developments of our civilization in
its struggle to maintain and advance the standard of citizenship which no progressive city can afford to ignore.
They are logical developments of the pubhe sehool system
which are coming into being all over the country in response
to an unmistakable public demand whether their provision
and administration is undertaken by school department or
park department or by special bath or gymnasium department. The method of dealing with the problem must be
worked out in each city to meet its particular needs and
eonditions, but the first step is the square recognition of
the duty, to be met as rapidly and as well as circumstances
permit, of providing within convenient reach of every home
in the city not merely facilities for book learning but faeilities for the healthy development of body and mind. ineluding, on the outdoor side, speeialized provision for babies
and little children, preferably assoe ated with park-like restIng places where their mothers can sit and watch them
while dog bit of sewing, knitting or other handiwork,
( provision for the active games of children of intermediate age, especially in immediate connection with the
schools, provision for the athletic activities of bovs and
men, with bathing facilities and under the control and
guidance of suitable teachers or directors. similar provision for girls and women, provisions for the less active
‘forms of outdoor recreation in parks designed to afford mild
forms of exercise in the presence of refreshing scenery.

It is large order and it eannot be filled all at onee.
but more and more generally cities are coming to recognize
that they have got to fill it sooner or later if they are to remain centers of healthful activity, and more and more generally they are taking steps toward equipping themselves.

CITY BEAUTIFUL  

Selection of Sites.
| In the situation in which Holyoke finds itself, the most
pressing matter seems to be the acquisition of lands for such
recreation grounds, especially in the down town wards, before the vacant lands are all built up. No sound general rule
can be given as to the extent of such lands required. and
since convenience of location and economy( both in the first
eost of the land and in the cost of putting it into condition
to use) are of much more consequence for most of the purposes in view than any natural advantages in the way of
scenery, it would be waste of time to make specific recommendations without any tigures on land values. It may be
said, however, that it is generally convenient and economical
to group several of the functions discussed above into single
neighborhood recreation centers, that there should ultimately be such center within not more than half mile of
every home in the close built portion of city, that something
like five per cent of the total area of fully oecupied city is
needed fairly to meet the need for neighborhood recreation
grounds of varying sorts, and that experience seems to indicate that if the area of sueh grounds is subdivided into.
blocks smaller than abont ten acres each its administration
and maintenance become more costly in proportion to the
value of the results than if the individual grounds are larger.

Special Park Sites.

Normally as indicated above, the chief criteria in selecting sites for neighborhood recreation grounds are: first,
convenience of location in relation to the population to be
served second, low price for the land; and third, the absence of conditions that would make it impracticable or
unreasonably costly to adapt the land suecessfully to its
purpose and to maintain it. The last is negative requirement, but it sometimes happens that sites are to be found
having peculiar and positive advantages for certain kinds

  CITY BEAUTIFUL

of public recreation, most frequently for the enjoyment of
landscape beauty of some sort, and in such cases unless
there are serious objections on the score of inaccessibility or
cost of land, decided preference should be given such sites.
And there are some very strong reasons for securing sites
of this sort in advance of others that may also be needed to
supply the requirements of given district, even though
they may not be suited to so many different kinds of public
recreation as the others. The first is that the qualiies giving them peculiar value for park purposes do not generally
eontribute to their market value for building purposes,
sometimes quite the reverse, as in the case of land which is
so hilly that it commands fine views but would require much
grading to convert into good building lots; in other words,
the ratio of their park value to their market value is at
present abnormally high; but under continued private control there is constant inducement to reverse the ratio,
either by neglect or by deliberately undertaking what are
‘‘improvements’’ from the point of view of market value
and serious injury from the point of view of park value.
Moreover, as such opportunities are usually few in number
and peculiar in kind, if one of them is lost through delay
it is usually impossible to find fair substitute even at an
increased cost. It pays, therefore, to look up such opportunities and secure them even in advance of an immediate
and pressing need for their use by the public.

We emphasize this point because we do not believe in
the wisdom of the policy, frequently advocated, of city’s
acquiring lands in advance of the actual need for their use
merely because the market price and therefore their cost
to the city are likely to be greatly enhanced if their acquisi‘tion is postponed. The judgment of the business community
which determines the market value of lands at any given |
time, can be relied upon to discount the probable increase |
in value good deal more accurately. on the average, than
any city officials. But where park site has peculiar natCITY BEAUTIFUL  
ural advantages that are likely to be destroyed in case its |
acquisition is delayed, it does clearly pay to purchase it in
anticipation of future needs.

Prospect Park.

Prospect park, possession of which the city may well

be proud, is good example of such location having pecu.liar park values. It does not contain large area in itself,
but those who resort to it enjoy the beauty of spacious and 
charming landscape almost as fully as if the city owned several square miles of country. The refreshment and pleasure
to be derived from stroll along the promenade in Prospect
park overlooking the great sweep of the Connecticut valley
is of real value, especially to people who have been cooped
up all day long in work-shop or tenement, and this value is
felt by large number of people; it is by far the greatest
value attaching to the park and one to which every other
feature of the park should be considered mere supplement
and support. This immense public value is practically secured by the control of two narrow strips of ground. One
of these, about twenty feet wide, is that occupied by the
path along the top of the bluff from which the view is seen.
This would have market value scarcely greater than the
same numebr of square feet of good building land anywhere
else in the neighborhood. The other includes the sloping
face of the bluff necessary to the control of the view because
trees, buildings ,advertising signs or other structures upon
the slope would cut it off from the path. This slope has almost no market value at all as building land. Yet for a
park, ten times the area without the view would not compare with it.

There are certain other opportunities of closely similar sort which it would be extravagant for the city to waste
through neglect. Two of them are apparent upon very
Superficial examination. |

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
North Bluff.

The first opportunity is the continuation to the northward of the bluff occupied by Prospect park. For some
little distance beyond the park the space between Prospect
street and the river is in actual use, being occupied by few
buildings and lumber-yard. In this section the only thing
likely to be done under continued private ownership that
would make its later acquisition and development as park
more costly is the erection of additional buildings or other
private improvements of considerable value. Except in so far
as this danger may arise the time of acquiring thisland might
be allowed to depend upon favorable negotiations with the
several owners. It is likely that the continued shoaling of
the bend in the river and the probable relocation of the railroad will eventually put the lumber-yard out of business and
it might be cheaper to await these developments than to interfere with an established and going industry. In the long
run, however, this tract certainly ought to come into the
hands of the eity. Beyond this tract the bluff appears to
be for the most part unoccupied and covered with rather
poor growth of trees except where the surface has been cut
into and converted into steep shding sandbank. It would

probably pay to aequire the fave of the bluff and strip
along the top wide enough for hberal paths and few shade
trees at an early date, before the private developments now
extending out in this direetion go so far as to complicate the
situation, and in order that whatever is good in the way of
tree growth may be adequately protected. The vitality of
the trees is now being ruined by neglect, mainly through
the constant recurrence of apparently trifling little fires that
scorch the bark of the trees and injure the soil.

With such eontractions. enlargements and modifieations
as may be suggested by close study of the physieal condi- |
tions and the real estate values, this principle of publie acquisition of the bluff could wisely be applied all the way to
the Northampton line. It is hard to overestimate the value

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
of such publie holdings in the future as the land to the west
becomes built up. Beautiful, spacious and refreshing as
the views from the bluff are, few can fully appreciate them
because of their relative inaccesibility and because most of
the best outlook points are obscured by the density of the
foliage. To leave all this river bank in private control
means to exclude the public forever from priceless opportunity of recreation. Few cities are situated upon great
and beautiful river like the Connecticut, and fewer still
have so bold and lofty bank from which to command a
prospect of it.

South Bluff. South of the city there is another bluff, not so close to
the river’s edge, but also commanding an extensive and
pleasant prospect. It begins to be noticeable just south of
South street and runs along for perhaps three-quarters of a
mile on line just east of Brown street, with the railroad
at its foot. The face of the bluff is naturally about as steep
as earth can stand but has been covered and protected from
washing by continuous mat of tree roots and other vegetation. It is so steep that it cannot possibly be utilized for
building or in any other directly productive way aad as
private property is just so much waste land. Being neglected and frequently burned over by ground fires, undermined at few places by the railroad cut, and at an increasing number of points overspread by ashes, gravel and rubbish dumped over the upper edge, the vegetation is rupidiy
being killed off and the bluff is on the way to become bare
slipping bank of gravel. sand and rubbish, conspicuously ;
ugly as seen from the eastward and involving the railroad
and the landowners in the joint (and quarrelsome) burden
of preventing the loose material from constantly dribbling
down on to the railroad location. From every point of view
it would be an advantage if the face of the binf® were to
pass into public hands together with narrow margin at

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
the top sufficient for promenade. The cost of properly
. maintaining the face of the bluff with cover of vegetation
if intelligently undertaken would be trifling price for the
public to pay for the opportunity of getting the promenade
and its views, while the private land-owners would be relheved of burden likely to prove much more troublesome
if neglected than any of them now realize. In places the
margin between Brown street and the top of the bluff where
the promenade would run is now occupied by buildings,
which would be left undisturbed with little or no eurtailment of the available area of the lots. In other places are
vacant lots which would be enhanced in value by the presence of park along their easterly edge far more than they
would be damaged by slight curtailment in depth At
other points the edge of the declivity comes so close to
Brown street that there is no available building space worth
mentionoing and at such points Brown street would naturally form the edge of the park and the vegetation would be
so handled as to keep the view open from the street itself.
The River’s Edge.

It is probable that at various points along the edge of
the river between the heart of the city and its southern
boundary strips or blocks of park land could be secured to
advantage. It is obvious that in such location given
area of park land would have the marked advantage over
an equal area just away from the river of controlling an
outlook over the wide expanse of water toward distant trees
and hills, together with the incident advantage of boating
facilities. Within factory district the special advantages
of building sites near the river, with which park strip might
eontlict, lie in the use of the river water for condensers and |
for various mechanical purposes and in the convenience of
the river as place for disposing of waste materials. To
the former narrow park need offer no impediment other

. CITY BEAUTIFUL  
than slight lengthening of the intake and outlet pipes, and
in so far as the waste material is not of character which
it is against public interests to put in the river most of it
can without objection be carried across narrow park in
pipes or conveyors.

Opposite all the central part of the city an important
branch freight track of the Holyoke and Westfield railroad
follows close to the river bank, and it is obvious that no park
in the ordinary sense of the term nor playground can be
placed next the river in that locality. There is only very
narrow strip of irregular width between the railroad and
the water, strip mostly covered with trees and entirely
unused at most points except by tramps and occasional
fishermen. It is not improbable that considerable parts of
this little waste fringe of land might ultimately be made to
afford good deal of public recreation if they should be
taken over by the city (subject to rights-of-way for pipes
and conveyors), fenced off from the railroad for safety.
provided with path, and made accessible to the factory
population in Ward by steps down from the county bridge —
and by foot-bridges over the railroad at the end of Mosher
street and perhaps at other points.

Outlying Reservations.

In addition to the vitally important local parks and
recreation grounds such as we have discussed above, it has
become fully recognized that it is great advantage to an
urban industrial community if its people have the opportunity of easily getting entirely away from the city when
they can take half day off. Trolleys and the bicycle give a
range of holiday excursion into the country to the mass
of urban population except in the biggest mertopolitan centers that was formerly enjoyed only by the well-to-do, and
in city like Holyoke, surrounded on all sides by region
of much natural beauty, the: people are exceptionally fortunate in this respect.. But while trolley ride is refresh  CITY BEAUTIFUL

ing it is by no means as beneficial merely to whirl out in
the noisy hurrying car and then whirl back again, as it is
to stop and get out for while into personal contact with
the quiet things of the country. Moreover, some definite
objective is generally needed to start people off on an excursion, whether by trolley or bicycle or otherwise. It is
solely for the latter reason that electric railways establish
recreation parks, and if they do to some extent fulfill the
former purposes, it is only incidentally and to very secondary degree. They must of necessity sater to the more obvious and exciting forms of recreation and those which will
draw large numbers to relatively small space, for the sake
of economy in plant and operation. However popularly attractive, these are upon the whole just the least beneficial
forms of country amusement for people whose nerves are
in need of rest, and to make it reasonably easy and attractive for the mass of the people to get the quieter and most
restful kinds of rural recreation which cannot be supplied
at commercial profit is one of the modern burdens which
cities are learning that they have got to shoulder. The.
problem is to give people access to land where they can
stroll or picnic in the midst of pleasant rural scenes in tolerable comfort and safety without injuring or trespassing
upon private property. The need grows rapidly with the
growth of cities in population but it is perhaps not very
pressing upon Holyoke as yet. It so happens, however,
that the foundation of Just such provision as will be in constantly increasing demand in the future has already been
laid. Holyoke now owns large extent of land well adapted
to afford public enjoyment of rural scenery in the reservations which surround the reservoirs. The ultimate value
of these tracts for purposes of public recreation should be
very large. The degree of their beauty and usefulness over
and above their direct practical value as water reserves
fifty or hundred years from now will be dependent mainly |
on the precise character and distribution of the woods, of

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
the meadows and of the scattered trees then to be seen on
them; these in turn will be dependent upon where and of
what sorts and under what conditions the trees and saplings
and seedlings of the present generation are allowed to grow.
The beauty of these tracts therefore will depend mainly on
these three things: whether vigilant pains are taken
year in and year out to prevent fires from getting into the
woods, )whether certain areas are constantly maintained
as open grass land free from the natural encroachment of
brush and woods (either by mowing or by pasturing or
otherwise) but provided with the right number of scattered trees upon the greensward, for shade and landscape
effect, and whether certain other areas are allowed and
induced to grow up to the right sort of woods by the judicious use of the axe. Of course if money is going to be
spent on roads and paths they should be skilfully and intelligently planned so as to exhibit the existing and future
beauties of the landscape to good advantage, so as to be
convenient and safe and so as to be as little costly of maintenance as possible; and if any money is to be spent on
planting it should be done so as to contribute to the best result the landscape is capable of; but the vital thing in the
long run is going to be the skilful direction of the common,
ordinary, necessary maintenance work, such as mowing,
leasing out pasturage (if done at all) and the selective cutting of brush and cord wood in such way as to develop
gradually and systematically consistent and  beautiful
tract of sylvan landscape about the lakes.

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
LIST OF TREES SUGGESTED FOR PLANTING ALONG
CANALS.
LARGE AND MEDIUM SIZED.
Acer platanoides—Norway Maple.
Acer rubrum—Red Maple.
Aesculus hippocastanum—Horsechestnut.
Betula nigra—River Birch.
Fraxinus pubescens—Red Ash.
Platanus occidentalis—American Plane.
Populus bolleana—Bolle’s Poplar.
Populus monilifera—Carolina Poplar.
Quercus alba— White Oak.
Quercus bicolor—Swamp White Oak.
Quercus palustris—Pin Oak.
Quercus rubra—Red Oak.
| Salix alba—White Willow.

Salix pentandra—Laurel-leaf Willow.
Salix, other sorts—Willow, other sorts.
Tilia americana—Basswood.

Ulmus americana—American Elm.
Ulmus ecampestris—English Elm.

CITY BEAUTIFUL  
SMALL SIZED.

Amelanchier canadensis—June-Berry.

Carpinus betulus—European Hornbeam.

Carpinus caroliniana—American Hornbeam.

Catalpa bignonioides—Catalpa.

Cornus florida—Flowering Dogwood.

Carategus, of sorts—Thorn, of sorts.

Kolreuteria paniculata—Varnish Tree .

Magnolia, of sorts—Magnolia, of sorts.

Ostrya virginica—Ironwood.

Pyrus, flowering crab, of sorts—Flowering Crab, Apple,

of sorts.
Rhus cotinus—Smoke Tree.
Rhus typhina—Staghorn Sumac.

  CITY BEAUTIFUL
LIST OF CREEPERS SUGGESTED FOR PLANTING ON
BUILDINGS ALONG CANAL.

Actinidia polygama—Silver Sweet Vine.

Akebia quinata—Akebia.

Ampelopsis quinquefolia— Woodbine.

Ampelopsis veitchii—Japanese Ivy.

Clematis, of sorts—Clematis, of sorts.

Euonymus radicans carrieri—Long-leaved Evergreen
Creeper.

Euonymus radicans vegetus—Round-leaved Evergreen
Creeper.

Tecoma radicans—Trumpet Vine.

Wistaria sinensis— Wistaria.

Notes—aAll of the vines excepting the Ampelopsis veitchili and the Euonymus radicans will require wires, attached to the buildings, to cling to for support. An excellent method is to use twisted galvanized iron ribbon, about
half an inch wide, or less, held in place by eyes about one
and one-quarter inches outside diameter, the shanks of
which have been let into the walls of the buildings. In
addition to vertical wires, there should be wires running
horizontally under the eaves or cornices of the buildings
and in some cases at the height of the different floors between the windows. The Bignonia radicans might also get
along without wires. Should it develop that this vine also
needs wires they can be provided later.

REPORT OF ;
CITY AUDITOR.
To the Honorable, the Mavor, and Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN:—I present herewith the annual statement .
of the receipts and expenditures for the fiseal year in
the form and manner suggested by the National Municipal
League.

I beg to further report that have andited the accounts
of the Water Department, Gas and Electric Department,
Tax Collector, City Clerk. Milk Inspector and Sealer of
Weights and Measures and found them correct, with the receipts properly recorded and promptly deposited, and the
expenditures approved in due form.

The report also contains other matters pertinent to the
financial side of the city’s business which may prove of  nterest.

Respectfully submitted. .

D. W. KENNEY, City Auditor.
SCHEDULE A—I.
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS OF THE FISCAL YEAR.
Consolidated Statement.
Cash balance, Dec. ... . le  
Actual receipts*® during the year...  ...  
Actual expenditures* during the year................  
Excess of disbursements....... ........    
Cash balance, Dec. ...   tees 
* Omitting duplications

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
oo, SCHEDULE A—II.
GENERAL EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES OF
THE FISCAL YEAR.
| Receipts |Expenditures
Ordinary, (Operation and mnaintenance)........|$uago,se .t 
(For details see Schedule A-III.)
Extraordinary, (Construction, etc.) ........    
(For details see Schedule A-III.)
Total Actual Cash Transactions of the Year
‘Omitting duplications) ....     +]  
Frust Funds oo.    ob cet ne scenes  
(For details see Schedule A-V.)
$  
Temporary ACCOUNES o.oo etest sstere eets see] 
(For details see Schedule A-VI.)
| Abatements, Duplicated Receipts and Payments 
Total transactions cl , 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  

Ordinary has relation only to the current revenues and
‘“‘running expenses’’ (operation and maintenance), and does
not include receipts or payments on account of loans, or on
account of permanent construction or other capital accounts.

Extraordinary has no relation to current revenue or
running expenses, but does include receipts and payments
on account of loans, and for permanent construction and
Other capital accounts.

Trust funds include all receipts and payments of the
city when acting as trustee or as agent for funds, trusts,
special deposits, ete., which cannot be used except for particular and specified purposes.

Temporary accounts include, in addition to receipts and
payments which are simply items paid in, temporarily held,
and paid out again; also payments duplicated on the funded
debt. sinking funds and interest accounts owing to the
separate and distinct systems which prevail between the
City, Water Department and Gas and Electric Department.
ACTUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS OF THE OPERATION AND

MAINTENANCE OF THE CITY FOR THE YEAR.

Ordinary receipts, as above, from taxation

and other sources, not including money borTOWEd,  ...        es  
Ordinary expenditures, as above, for operation and maintenance (running expenses)  
Excess of ordinary expenditures for the year 
Excess of extraordinary receipts.......... 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—III.

EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR THE
YEAR, ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GROUPED
ACCORDING TO FUNCTIONS.

ORDINARY*

| Receipts Expenditures
General Administration. ........................cceseseces reerer s|   
Public Safety (Protection Life, Health and Property .................  
Public Charity.................. secsec rc scen t snes CI]  
Public Highways and Sanitation sees seen set r rcessecns | 
Municipal Enterprises ................c  ce s  tee coet esac,  
Public Education, Library.................ccece   cec ne eens 
Public Recreation ............... ccsc s coneesese en   
Public Indebtedness ....................c    sc  ec eets sses) sestenee ses sees  
Pablic Tnterest..... ..  .  eccesseseescesvecevss vesenscsevseeavee! 
Taxation...    sencseesens arecs ceseesseen cas  
Special AssessmentS..................... ec   boeeaecesen  sees  
Trust Fuads............ cc  cc ecce  ec ec  neaeen esse cennes ses !  
Temporary ACCOUDES..................      eea tesa   ences  
$ . 
Less Duplications, Refunds, Payments, Abatements and Trans.
POTS oie    nce  sentences cec  cancer seseseeneessesescese teense 
$  
EXTRAORDINARY.*
——— SCO TT SS.
| Receipts Expenditures
General Administration .............: scsscescsec seeseccscsseessjsete sosteenec  |eesesc secs 
Public Safety (Protection Life, Health and Property................. 
Public Highways and Sanitation. .......... ..   ences  ees 
Municipal Enterprises. ............. ccec     eet  ta  noes  
Public Education, Library ............      ee  
Public Recreation. ...................    ence tee  nett n ne  
Public Indebtedness. ............... cce ce eaees cenaetev nes  ...  
Public Interest........... .    ce scces as s a s!  )... oe  
Taxation oo...   ec cc   cates tecesecansea eeaeev litec   tenen cesesecseneres  
Special Assessments...  ...   eter     etter Setters ep ts cet ces ctecec s
Trust Funds....... .. .. ce       eceaee ceseetee ceccseas cu s tren Gesrocaneca
Temporary ACCOUDIS.. ..    nence  ne nes Cetaeea crea eenes Fite cac tserseea
‘ Oy   i
*.  Les* Daoltcared Receipts... .......  ...cts ..   |
)   |
® For details see Schedule A-IV.

|
|
REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR |
SCHEDULE A—IV.
EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS, APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES, DIVIDED INTO ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDI- ,
NARY, ARRANGED BY DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS AND GROUPED ACCORDING TO THEIR |
FUNCTIONS AS IN THE PRECEDING
SCHEDULE.
 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
 Receipts Expenditures
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary |
  Mayor's Department..........cc 
  Aldermen, Clerk, Messenger
City Messenger's Department .....).............        es  ee
Clerk of Committees. ............... |.  eesee ee: Lene eeae ce  oe: TW) OO)  ee
Aldermen, Legislative Expemses..|...........cec     es oocce   ccseas 
City Clerk’s Department.............| etee cc  s  ...     eenee
Recording Births, Marriages and
Deaths  ... .... ce   ec  rere ...ee
  Law Department
City Solicitor  ...  ec cc  cetee con  [ sccs s  
Legal Services, Other Attorneys ................ .]cceses    
Litigation Expemses ...............cce.  e [ec ec neere oo...  
  Finance .
Auditing Department ........... ... [ecc  s en    eener oo.  
ASSCSSOPS.  ... ecc       co lic nen cas | cc seses  
Treasurer  ...     ees |p-s-seseerses  esenrensen on.
. Tax Collector ..........    ci veer  ce    twee   : oo.
Sinking Fund Officials ................|-.ece          ee: rs  
Expert AUditOr.....    setete renee feet rettee tenses sen tte teense oS 
I ‘|
  Elections |
Election Expenses, City Clerk ....] -.. -::::ecc ] ces   teen  . .. ,.... es ,
Election Registrars of Voters .......)-----::-s.e:ee sees   nee tee    oo. ce    es
Election porliog Places, rent, etc. OOOO nOOnORNOnE NEE LBBB SA) cseessee
Election Officers Special Police |....-.-.-----:: ,s-seesseseereerees  oe
  Miscellaneous |
License Commission ............... ..  reet | crete rete oe
Printing, Advertising Sundries \------..-...---. -    .
$  ,
  City Hall |
Rentals ..............ce     ee stent bese neces
Care and Maintenance............... ..  eer  tes    teen   
Repairs ..........) Board .........|s:  sees  : III ABIL R
Fuel ................ Public wei [bette teres   tl    BTA OB ee
Lighting .. ........J Works  o... ... [estes cree  t   B.A.T
Service Transfer.......... .. ...S  occ
$  
Total Gereral Administration soccer vet  oo,

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
 SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
 PUBLIC SAFETY. (Protection of Life, Health and Property.)
. Receipts Expenditures
Extra. ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Police Department
Maintenance ................  scc cne fessesesess !  .........  .
Fines—Police Court.....................  |...    ett cetete cette teer s
Fines—Hampden County.............. ...  cc |    cesses ten seeses s
$  Fire Department
Engime ..............ce ecsecceseescessecon| coctarsenees  ...   ecean 
General Expenses .............. ..... [-ccs   ecsere| s raren ae
Materials .................. cesses enone GA  ...   ce  ecec s
Repairs, Buildings........ bes  sesesees [es s  oe. ces s
Fuel seces  Board) ............  cc  sce s  )...
Light and Power........... of vee  c|ss scsas ...... 
Water, Buildings ..........) Public ...     neces  ee
Water, Hydrants. ........{ Works ................ ceses    ... .... ....
Highland Engine House CII ..... -ees  
$  !  Health Department |
Salaries  ... ooc    eccencen | cce ecseces coecc saseeacos !)
Medical Inspection ..............  cele ce cc    scence Leese  ces ......-e   
General Expenses..................... ...    oe ee
Inspector Milk and Vinegar .........  )...  ,  ...... -. ... 
Inspector Provisions and Animals)..................).....c.c.  ees oo.  
Hillside Hospital-care ..............   ec  laccs  -  oo...  
Hillside Hospital-fuel ............  bee  cesen  ones  oe  
Hillside Hospital-repairs..............)      ] cec s UF:
Contageous Diseases.................... ian aa  .........-e  
$   Inspectors
Superintendent of Buildings......... .... ...   ceseesc sen  ...
Inspector of Plumbing.................     Lecce ne  cn  -TU oo...     
Sealer of Weights and Measures... $B  |...    QOU-BL oe    s
$  Armory, Sundry Buildings |
AYMOLY .......c cecececsecec  ences BS H. ce c  se ccaceree cec veeset s
Rifle Range.........      oe sneewe  s r   oo.    
Sundry Buildings: ............... |
Sundries  ... cc ss  ens  oo...   nee ce  cannes m ree
Repairs  ... ..cce e   veesnces| s  coees  |ccaceserees .......c   
Fuel occ  een coeeeaeccesee: nerecteel cesseaeeseu aees .......c    ees
Weather Bureau, Lighting. ........... es  lec    te tenes yh  
City Vard Buildiog, Lighting...) etek [ cence      Sirk |
City Yard Building, Fuel. SE BB.D  so. scecs s
City Yard Building, Repairs ........  fc     r
City Yard Building...... .......... .!  )..... cs 
$  
Total Public Safety........   remot  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
 PUBLIC OHARITY.
Receipts Expenditures
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  City Farm
City Farm, Products...................-) ).. -............  )...
Almshouse ................ ..    DO a) er ce
Repairs ............... Board of .......ecc [ecuec sees  .........cc e.s
Fuel oo. wf Public Works)............. .[-.cces c cere
  Outdoor Relief |
BS cs es ce  oo. s
City Physician ...........cc:css | ecc  cesesse fes neer ... sees eens
General Expenses .......... ..  e|   es| censesneea ...
Todividuals ................c.cces  ....ec s senesteesesevere boo eon n
City, Out-door Relief............ :.  -[oee eseerece eertterer | 
City, Hospital Relief .........ce ecbe cesses lesees cenes BO   eesseeneon
City, Burials...   cessen  |   coet te ec ss nees  ...
State, Out-door Relief........ ..... .c)    vavecec oe
State, Hospital Relief ..................  ...     TSAO Loe   
State, Burials ............ce ec   |ec se seetey aeuss s QTZW oo. . seerr s
Other Cities and Towns, Out-door ,
|) cs es oe -ssoee es wes
Other Cities and Towns, Hospital |
Relief... cc       es
Other Cities and Towns, Burials ...|... .............. poesser s
$  .
  Miscellaneois |
State Aid oo... wd  UO) ee] BZ, TBP OO ee
Military Aid...   !   JEN. oe ec 
Soldiers’ Relief. ............ - seseesteeses ss [osetensesean scenes Ta |
Soldiers’ Barial oa o....    .  
| 
a OO sida tele
| |
Total Public Charity .... ..c  
  —z  ie ae —

\
  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—-IV—Continued.
 PUBLIC HIGHWAYS AND SANITATION.
i Receipts Expenditures
| Extra- Extra| Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
| ———-— ——— +?
  Administration
Engineering Department......  ce ce ececlecerecereetee| co ecc s
Board of Public Works, Salaries...  ... csecet :  . cess
Superin endent of Streets, Salaries  ... ciel ccecc  Lo ce  ee
Office Force, Salaries .............c .c  ecescecce|sosccscc  oe
General Expenses...................   ces  [es  set   
$  Highways !
Railroad Crossing.................   ec scec | .......  
Opening, Grading and Widening:
Streets oo...    ece  ceccsc : cesstecceaescreces|ocseceracesec |  
Maintenance. ............cce  nec  ees  )......... ...
‘ Crosswalk .......... ececcne c cocecsucesecc: |s venes: 
FOTOStrY  oo. ce        ec ects eenes sessaecsscaees [oecs ccsecs  ......  ce
Road Rollers.............c.c .. ecesees ceuc  eces| s caec eessteeretereree   Paving, Macadamizing |
Streets, Paving scctsccsstetetesenece| .  
Streets, Macadamizing .. celesecs csces [sscsausscuseesene:   Bridges
Maintenance ................. ec rttes  cranes  essen  :  ....... ee.
Lighting  ...       occ c     )...  
Snow Removal........... :. ce ecssees ees  serra s  oo...  
  Street Cleaning |
Paved Streets.  ...   ccssanteccssestee) cess rsess |   cesses.
Gravel Streets... t cesses |e} oe
  Snow Removal |
Street Railway Tracks... ..  ees Ga ty ry ee
+wernees eS eS Se ee
.   -  Sidewalks |
Curbing and Sidewalks (New |
WOrk)     cree fesse?  
Repairs and Maintenance ............  .... ...cc...  
Snow Removal .............     to cocec   cc     boce  ce  ....  .
|
; .  Street Lighting |
| |
Lighting Streets.......  . lo coce  .  ........ -... ..
Vramsformer  ... ec   eceuc ssees de cbeseene   YES») A
$ ,
OO a
Carried Forward we    .  
: .

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
Receipts Expenditures
. Extra- Extra| Ordinary ordinary Ordioary ordinary
Brought Forward vo ren !     Street Sprinkling
Street Fountains, Water ..............|. e ecce| coecsc  ce|  .............. .
Street Fountains, Repairs ............)  cocen, concencec  BB) oo...    ee
Maimtemance...  ... .c.     ce ice caecec | cec sa crees  |...   cc   
|   Refuse, Collection and Disposal
Collection ashes, Pay-roll. eses cesecec cc -|  )...  
Collection House Offal........... ./.css ssecec|oc neen ,  ......  cec 
Sundry Bills..........tee tec et   ccec ces ase| secec scn ... e   ee
$   Sewers
Maintenance ...................    ......  |B  ).
Comstruction...........sesecesecesr s| , 
$  §$   -  Miscellaneous
Damages to Persons and Personal
Property..........ccse esanc  ose cec |ccessecseccsses |  ...  
oo  
| SS ES eSeS
Total, Public Highways and Sanitation.. ; 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
|  MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISES.
Receipts Expenditures
Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
————————— |
  Water Works |
Constructo. ciocsvscsnvrveles vececcesecsece|  )... ee.
; Maintemance...............:ec  cce  cc  nees a .
Water Res, nnsenc nn eerreeteeree essen ...     
Materials, Labor, etc .................../ oo...   ...
Interest, Meters .................... ......   [ocseccsa | sos ccesescns
Interest, Bank Deposits...............  kee cevaes|scneeusese
Sinking Fund Appropriation.........)  ... .ccec ef eesec  ees  )...  
Taxes occ  n es c seceancuev nsees oI]  ...  
Interest on Bonds  ...    c nececce |eoccessesess ...  
|   Gas Plant
CAS occ  cec ce    ter  s s| BIAG. ODO.  D) oc   lee  cecascesaee ts seen nees
Coke and Tar ..............c..    , ...L  teen ce enenee ec nenees
Sundries ..... .... ee   ec ec s )...  ce )    cs [eegenes cesses
Extensions ............... cc   ss  sences ceves  
Operation and Maintemance.....-....)---er  rerererereseet ame  er  Sr reneernrerency
Tnterest ...........         nees  lececcncec nc sre essnn s| .......cc   es
Bonds ........     ecscceccencc sece: |seseasacceuseneces  sc as essere!  )...----e---r 
Interest Accrued............. ecc s|scce eseccec )K Ey Se
eeEe |
$    Electric Light Power Plant |
Electric Light and Power ............|  seteesecanease tesses teneenees [ rs  cn 
Sundries ..........  ce cec   sac ec |S. Oe)
Extensions ........... ... cc        rrtier ccen| )...    s
Operation and Maintenance .........)......c   cence cc  A), ....-- 
IMterest ........ esec cteesec  cess ne  s CEs]  )... ess nsees
Bonds. ....  ... ce ecc ences encceccecce nce| coceuscecce esce|scesacessens veces: ... cr s
Interest Accrued............ ec la ececcuees aver r|ee
; . ).......-.---.--+  Holyoke Westfield Railroad |
Dividend ..........cec    ese  cstom :  |sccescr eos |  ........ eens
$  
Total Municipal Enterprises .................! ,;  
} 
e

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
  PUBLIC EDUCATION.
| Receipts Expenditures
! Ordin Extra- Ordinar Extra
| ary ordinary ordinary
  Schools
County of Hampden, Dog Tax......!  ........  c cc  sessn nen s
Tuition...   cc cc sOOS Ce es ire
Salaries, Teachers, Day ......  .cc  cesc  [eces ces s| oo.
Salaries, Teachers, Evening........... s  cosseeserserseaees  ec c  
Salaries, Supervisors ............ ...    cesececaee|es neaes W). oo. c s
Salaries. Supt., Clerks....... .... (  esse eesee ocs  aees |-----see ee
Salaries, Truant Officers and Cen-| |
BUS oo...  ce   ewe necneneceaes  tecserec n: [sess r :  .........ccese aces
Salaries, Janitors. ..............   sc cc as  es seseneenes BOTTAQ) ceases
Salaries, Special Help, Labor........:...........c ...[eceseses  VOM      ee
Text Books and Supplies.. ie en .....  ne
Rentals  ... eeteces  nscss  locseesae teres  
Transportation...........ssecesec cce[eereesercerestees senaecnesenees! Ps |
Care of Truants .................. eg cient bene]  Eee
Furniture and Building Supplies ..'...... ........... es] By Ye
Printing and Advertising .............) -. e c | FSee
Sundries  ntarsaesestuenteete ell ae ys  Es 
. —— |
| 
Repairs .............  es  sececscscce |sccssecscsccecsce.|  coccecse esese
Janitors’ Salaries .........   nenna  L cecseneceoes .....  seen
Janitors’ Supplies......... careeqcaces [ecc sees ABS DD  ec s
Fuel  ecs  Board svete vet |  BDOTI BB oc s
Lighting .................c of keccecces ecec|cesevae ...... c 
Power ................    Public .......  [I  )...     
Water oo... ce   Works oo. WT  ...  
Ward Two School......... secettees re: $B  ).   ee! 
Oakdale School ............ Jers set ses|  
East Dwight St. School )...settee
'  
eeee—}TS TS
Total for Schools conten ; 
  Public Library |
Appropriation  .-s scoccssectecceses  cec[seescsescec  ...  
Total Pubiic Education orcs  .s  . 
oor EEE: S 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
 PUBLIC RECREATION.
Receipts Expenditures
: Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary
  Parks
Maintenance.. ...............:ce    secsee eseescetaes .....cec
Construction and Improvements...| ....... ......./  
Land ......seesecsecseescsseseesc cet coeeacaeensat lissmse neenfesesecer op  
$  ;  Baths
Maintenance............   cc  secre ccecc ceseaees |esseserenses | ,T  oo...    
—
|   Celebration |
- Memorial Day ..............c   cc ce| sctereces ree| BO  W.  Leen
Veteran Firemen’s Muster Lecesececacess ....   
Cape Cod Pilgrim Monument ....      sneer rR  rr 
$  
a
|
Total Public Recreation................... .... $ 
ee EF Eww ——— oe EEE—EE—EEeE

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
} SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
 PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS. (Transactions During the Year.)
a  
Receipts Expenditures
‘ Extra- ExtraOrdinary erdinary Ordinary ordinary
  Receipts from Loans, Excluding Temporary Tax Loans
Park Bonds ................. ecc cec | cen sec QB oo...  ic  renee
School Boads ............. ...es cer   saececscec  B. OO.U  ......  ces   c ses 
Sundry Municipa! Bonds............|ees sses ) NO  OU oo.    |     ter  s
Gas and Electric Light Bonds ......)............ “| ,QUO.  ...  es [ec  seco  
$  Payments to Sinking Fund—
City Debt
From Appropriation .......... ....cce)   ] terr ree]  ee
From Water Dept., Taxes...... ... (    [cnc ecec ces  ......cce. ce  
From Holyoke and Westfield Rail-,
road, Dividend....... ...     ! ececscrees|snescencasecess  oo... 
Water Dept Appropriation ........ eens cone eens serene ees  ........ .. 
! ee
   Direct Payment of Matured
Debt |
From Tax Levy Direct, City Debt jstesnn nnsees cevecceseccence!   
From Sinking Fund, City Debt ... ope  | LOB OUDL   
Gas and Electric Plant Debt... lece ene| cosee ececs ,GUU.U ...  ...    
| 
|
Total Public Indebtedness.....................' 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
 PUBLIC INTEREST.
. Receipts Expenditures
| Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary

  Interest— undries |

Interest on Bank Deposits............|  ... bec    c r naes

Interest from Water Dept.    eens e cacene ceneae  aneer s

Interest Accrued on Bond Issues...) .... ........ ..-! ce    creer ner 

Unredeemed Coupons................... DOOce scces [ees cesee: [enseneoe cenenees
  Interest on Taxes  cc cs bescccuessucace|sesceceseutee?
  Payment of Interest on Debt |

Upon City Debt.......c.ccsesses : saseeseansense ssetnetcnet  .--.-- 

Upon Temporary Loans ..............)cc  crr s ,BB  .....---e eer

Upon Gas and Electric Plant

Bonds nn en on BoA Os |

Upon Water Bonds ...............c .cc[eces rerecec nsrenees  ...... eer ?
aS
Total Public Interest conten  )....---- sr
a Se

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  !
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
 TAXATION.
| Receipts Expenditures
| ef
;  Extra- ExtraOrdinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary

ee nn (OO

  Taxes, Real, Personal, Poll |
Taxes  .........s  s cote cscs costes
Taxes Other Years............... .... QT  TV.BSBce ec   caec cec  s s
Abatements sestesasuessve ussoaeeriels nsnecsusase  esee ess s! BQOBLS  cc 
Refund of Excess alsa SagrPad EEERRaEEE Lecesses aes BABU ....  cenec 
Refund of Poll Taxes, Not As- |

BEBSEK oon seo see sseeseseevecesteneeseeseeny BB. .. eces cescecsec sen mecouees
$ -  Other Taxes (Except Fran-| |
chise Taxes) |
Corporation Tax........... ec !  .ce ecsesees Lescec cerc scs [sesteneeneneen s
Bank Tax ..........c. scescesesees Q,FAIZ  ec cc GY  BB.  .cc  
$   !
  Franchise Taxes |
t t
Street Railway Tax, City........-- ...! occ.    ceseranetee seener se
Street Railway Tax, State............, ne re peter
——— |
$  ,

  Miscellaneous |
State Tax oo... ce s seet   ecceccesees ensmeessrecsc ! SO ROOLOO cc c s
County Tax........... errsee cec cic  acas | sesenensseree’| oo.  ence eens
Armory TaX... -. sc cs l cc! ve oseosecneses| ..ccecs s s

|  !
  Liquor Licenses ...ce e! YF -oers 
(

  Other Licenses |
Auctioneers  ... |g ...cc  es, ss seneseces |sesseesenenseesses
Peddlers ......... ....sescescesecsesc BR. enec   ces cec aesonsess
EXpress .................:csccs rees BR.       centrees nen ne
Pool, Billiards Bowling Alleys DBO.    lesse esenteerers [setnn cnsoes
Exhibitions... ees BSD .UO .. ec   cecns es nees sea sereae canoes
Junk Dealers. .............. eess ... cesescec leseesc cnetaeses |seeseseesseesaanes
Second Hand Dealers. .................. er rs |eseeseset nene
Hacks  ... ces secen ss QB. ees esccs esl cesee cen eseseesseaeensees
 (rr QO e ncnsees leccec s s sesen 
pitelligence Off COS... s  BWW oss ec  s|ssesnencsnnencnaes |osserarensnns 
Pawn Brokers................:--.:::  FO.O  .   secnenec les s
Itinerant Vendors...................  Qh    lceanee caescecs |s cesesees

$  
Ly
Total Taxation. ......... .... sseccsc  ree .. --  reev 
oO Oo

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR :
SCHEDULE A—IV—Continued.
 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.

‘ Receipts Ea penditures
  Assessments for Sewers  besseuee en s
Refund for Sewer Assessment..... escsecs  Assessments for Sidewalks sesees casees
Total Special Assessments  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A—V.
TRUST FUNDS.
: FUNDS Receipts Expenditures
-. Rann
we ,
a ——
E .
 

uf ;
a
  —
pe}
, 
ns —
QO,
‘e) e
q,
 

:
 
|

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
ao moe cIX-u'—- ---   a
  |
——. |
\

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A—V.
TRUST FUNDS.
OOI
FUNDS Receipts Expenditures
| |
Whiting Street Funds... o.......  
Cemetery Funds................::: :c   !  
(
—-— a
Total oo..     cesses c s  
| SCHEDULE A—VI.
| TEMPORARY ACCOUNTS.
\ Receipts Expenditures
 Temporary Tax Loans......... ...........  Payments from Sinking Fund Into
| Treasury to Redeem Matured:
| Bonds ae 
; Pet ss  
| 
:

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
CONTINGENT ACCOUNT.
EXPENDITURES ITEMIZED.
P. H. Sheehan, Atty., claim, (Busiere)........ 
T. B. O’Donnell, legal services................  
P. H. Sheehan, legal services..................  
Storey, Thorndike, Palmer Thayer, legal serVICES Loc               
Patrick Bowler, claim,................  -  
Henry Bogart, claim...................  
Fred W. Boldway, claim.....................  
William P. Buckley, Atty., claim, (Hanratty)..  
J. R. Callahan, Atty., claim, (Shugrue)........  
City of Everett, claim, (smallpox Catherine Lafleur) .. occ cc   ce cc          |
Daniel Connor, claim ..............   ees  
George W. Cook, claim...................  
Emile Foucher, claim ...........  ...  cc  |
P. J. Garvey, Atty., claim, (MeDonald)........  
James Joyce, Clam .........        
O. A. Lamontagne, Atty., claim, (D’Aigle).....  
QO. A. Lamontagne, Atty., claim, (Keyes).......  
Thomas C. Maher, Atty., claim, (Kelliher)......  
T. D. O’Brien, Atty., claim, (Shea)............  
R. P. Stapleton, Atty., claim, (Kallaugher).....  
Delia Shea, claim, ...........  cc eens  
Mrs. Edward Sullivan, claim,.................  
Geo. P. B. and Chas. E. Alderman, rent, polling

| 
Onesime Trepanier, rent, polling place..........  
Abraham Barowsky, rent, polling place........  
Field Sinclair, rent, polling place............  
Patrick Green, rent, polling place.............  
Holyoke Boys’ Club, rent, polling place........  
James P. Tobert, rent, polling place............  
Holyoke Machine Co., rent, polling place.......  
Sons of Zion, rent, polling place..............  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
St. Jerome T. A. B. Society, rent, polling place..  
Sullivan Carmody, plumbing, polling place....  
Casper Ranger, putting up election booths and
repairing ballot boxes.............cc s  
O’Leary Plumbing Co., plumbing and repairing
of election booths............     ewes  
Gas and Electric Dept., gas, polling places......  
John T. Brady, plumbing, polling places.......  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, ballot boxes.  
White Paper Box Co., ballot boxes............  
E. K. Tolman, ballot boxes....................  
M. J. Moynihan, repairing ballot boxes and safe  
Corporation Publishing Co., book..............  
Eureka Ruling and Binding Co., blank book....  
National Blank Book Co., blank book and book
DIndinY ... ecc    ce       estes  
Holyoke Job Book Bindery, book binding.......  
George H. Hill, dating and rubber stamps, repairs
ballot boxes .......  cc eet      
Morgan, Crossman Co., dating stamps........  
Transcript Publishing Co., advertising........  
Telegram Publishing Co., advertising..........  
Springfield Union, advertising.................  
Northampton Daily Herald, advertising........  
New England Rundschau, advertising..........  
La Justice Publishing Co., advertising..........  
Democrat Publishing Co., advertising..........  
Free Press Publishing Co., advertising.........  
Die Bene, advertising...............     
Hampden Gazette, advertising.................  
H. S. Gere Sons, advertising................  
Anker Printing Co., printing..................  
H. C. Cady Printing Co., printing..............  
M. J. Doyle Printing Co., printing.............  
Free Press Publishing Co., printing............  
Transcript Publishing Co., printing............  
John Ahern, hack and team hire...............  
T. J. Dillon, hack and team hire.............  (). 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR

A. F. Gingras, team hire................  
M. J. Laporte, ecartage, hack and team hire.....  
Joseph A. O’Donnell, hack hire................  
James Sullivan, hack hire................  
Boston News Bureau, subseription.............  
N. .Avery, traveling and sundry expenses... 

M. J. Griffin, city solicitor, stenographie services and traveling expenses........... ce     
J. D. Goddu, sundry expenses.............. 
P. J. Tetreault, traveling expenses, express, ete.  
Pierre Bonvouloir, traveling expenses and express  
James Kennedy, President Board of Aldermen,

traveling expenses  ...     *
D. W. Kenney, traveling expenses and express.  
Special Aldermanic Committee, traveling exPOENSES Loe   ce  t   
James L. Tighe, traveling and sundry expenses  
Johnson, Butler Co.. draughting supplies.......  .
Fitzgerald Co., stationery, ete..............-.  
R. R. Nickerson, stationery..............  

M. J. Judge, copy book, carbon paper, ete......  
Spaulding Print Paper Co., draughting supplies  
Goodall Drug Co.. soap...     
A. C. Menard. soap... i...     
Millane Bros., soap and cigars............. 
J. H. Caswell, photographs.................. ..  
Demers Sons, photographs............... 

Gilbert E. Lea, group photograph..............  
G. E. Trask. photographs..........    
Cosette Bonvouloir, typewriting.............  
Elizabeth V. Coffey, typewriting..............  
Holyoke Business Institute, tvpewriting........  
J. Il. Rafter, typewriter...     
Remington Typewriter Co., repairs on typewriter

and MeMillan book... ....  ...     
Smith Premier Typewriter Co., typewriter, desk,
chair and typewriter support........ ......  

REPURT OF CILY AUDITOR  
F. S. Webster Co., typewriter ribbons........  
Chas. A. Chase, Postmaster, postage...........  
Frederick Kilian, postage................ 
John F. Sheehan, express and postage.........  
American Express Co., express...........  
Jesse E. Sheldon, expenses to Boston (Aldermanie Committee) .......  eeee  
W. T. Walsh, express. ....  ...       
R. W. Magna, automobile hire................  
Burrington Motor Co.. automobile hire........  
E. C. Clarke Co.. premium, treasurer’s bond..  
J. H. O’Connell, premium, treasurer’s and tax

collector’s bonds  ...           
John Tilley Co., repairs, chair...............  
Collins Murray, repairs linoleum and desk....  
A. N. Lapointe, serviees as constable...........  
W. J. Tlowes, witness fees............... 
V. J. O'Donnell, deputy sheriff’ fees...........  
Hotel Hamilton, dinners. County Commission...  
David F. Murray, lunches (reeounting votes)...  
TIolvoke Tee Co. We... ce   
Thomas J. Anderson, cigars............. 
Kaffir Cigar Co., cigars...  ...    
abrary Bureau, cabinet and eards............  
Wim. J. Nagel. revised laws............... 
G. C. Merriam Co., dictionaryv...............  
Price Lee Co., directories. ....... .. .....  
Felix F. Daus Duplicator Co., dupheator and ribDONS Loc   ec eeeee      ees  
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., adding machine  
W. L. E. Gurley, test weight, graduates, seal,

I’. S. Blanchard, Massachusetts Year Book... ...  
L. H. Clarke, M. D.. professional services. .....  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
J. C. Hubbard, M. D., professional services (hydrophobia case)  ... ....         
EK. D. Warren, M. D., professional services (Pasteur treatment) ...........  ...       
Dr. J. J. Moynihan, V. S., examination of horses
and treating dogs (rabies)................  
C. E. Ball Drug Co., chemicals, sponges........  
IJall Bros., pens and penholders...............  
Connor Bros., pens and penholders............  
C. Dimond, pens .........        eens  
Carter’s Ink Co., ink...............--.-- -- 
B. Butlar, brush ................... gf  
John H. Hargreaves, acid, marking acid.......:  
Malden Specialty Co., acid and powder.......... 
J. H. Gifford, dog tags................  ee)  
A. Steiger Co., felt...............  
J. R. Smith, matches............. eens  
G. E. Russell Co., hardware.................  
Geo. L. Goodyear, telephone half year for  ..  
Gallivan Bros., flowers .........    
N. M. Nolan, flowers  ...        
Thomas J. Morrow, cloek...........    
J.C. Lutz Lithograph Co., lithographing.......  
’ R. T. Oakes Co., shade... ..............  
John F. Quigley, floor wax.............    
Wm. F. Russell. protectograph................  
New England Telephone Telegraph Co., telephone and tolls.....  ... eee    
New England Towel Supply, laundry..........  
Wm. B. Whiting Coal Co., coal......  ... ee.  
Walter W. Eaton, expert auditing.............  
J.J. Byrnes, Veteran Firemen Asso’n celebration  
Kilpatrick Post, G. A. R.. Memorial Day.......  
Nelson A. Miles Camp, Spanish War Veterans.  
FE. BE. Stone, contribution Cape Cod Pilgrim MonWINONt Lovee        

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
Michael Ginley ,labor Sealer Weights and Meas  oc  
George Shine, labor Sealer Weights and Measures  
Pay roll, janitors, polling places...............  
Pay roll, stenographer Tax Collector..........  
Pay roll, precinet officers.....................  
Pay roll, special police, polling places..........  
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, recording births,

marriages and deaths..................--  

$ 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
BIRTH RETURNS.
Carl A. Allen... cc  eens 
Gardner Cox ........      nee eaes  
O. J. Comtois.e  c.       
F. J. Cloutier...  ...ees  
F. F. Celee co...  Teal
Jean Celce co... ccce   
Thomas E. Cavanaugh..............    
Josephine De la Neuville.................  
Ella M. Davis.....  ...  ce    .)
R. BE. Dickson... ..  ... cc 
Anna Drozdowska ... ...        
W. G. Deroin.     eens  )
J o.AL Donner... cc...        
Marv Duy co.   eens  
Joseph HT. Dixon: .......e    
Adolph Franz oo...  ...   eens 
Geo. J. Hebert oo...ee  
G@. L. Gabler wo... e    
Geo. E. TIunt ...  ...ee  
Ahee E. Tlunt oo...  ec  Ae
Fred A. Mead wo... cc ce    
Geo. L. Kinne wo...  e      
S.A. Mahoney oo...  ...    
JA, Marin co.cc   ec     nee  
J.J. MeCabe co.cc. cc   
W. WNazalska oo...      
Mrs. EKhiza KRellv oo...  ee 
“Domethile Payette .......  ...      Lio
Tl. Ro Sackett   ee )
Geo. CL Robert oo.   ee  
W.oALL St. Georges. coo cc     ae)
William Teahan wo...  ... ee 
FL OAL Woods wo... ce cc ences  
A.B. Wetherell  ...  ... cc      
Mrs. Ro Wruek. oo. oe       

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  

S. J. Benoit  ...eees WE)
J. L. Bliss  ...       
J. J. Carroll oo... cc cc   
H. E. Chaput ........  ... cc cc    eens  
R. G. Baton oo...  ... ce   
J. QO. Beauchamp ...........  ...      
George G. Hitcheock..................... 
E. J. MeNamara ..........  ...   ce   )
Benjamin Fagnant ..............        
Hubert T. Dean .........  ... ce      d
J. C. Hubbard .........   es  
E. H. Tierney ............      
John P. Shine .........  ...   ence  
J. J. O'Connor .......       
Edward D. Warren ...........    
HT .B. Miner .... ce ce ees  
Lillian West .......  ... cc   ee eens  
H. L. Hirsch .......  ...ees  
D. F. Donoghue ................       
R. Morrison .......  ...      
J. EK. Brindamour ..............    :  
G. H. Smith ...  ... cc    
M. J. MeIntee ....  ...   ec   
$ 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR

DEATH RETURNS.
C. R. Alger oo...    ence 
D. F. Barry  ...  ...  eens  
C. Blais Co.  ... e   eens  
A. L. Codaire Co... cc    
Dillon Bros.  ...  ...      
Joseph Dupont ........  ...        
A. F. Gingras  ...   cc eens  
James P. Hobert .......  ees  
Wells Lathrop .............        
J. A. O'Donnell  ...  ...   
T. FL Ryan  ... ce   ete eens  
John B. Shea ...... ee    
Sampson Sweeney .........  ...  ees  
J. Francis Brown .......  ...    ees  
A. Gordon oo...          
W. C. Naughton  ...  ce es mi
J. H. Clune wo... ce   
N. L. Byron...    teens a
E. D. Washburne .............    W)
Frank J. Shea .......  ...         
V.E. Mitchell    
W. GL. Smith ..  ... ce  ee eens  
M. T. O'Brien...    ees  
Cadwell Perry  ...     
E. D. Marsh  ...  ...    eens  
JV. J. Hafeyo oo. ces  )
Antony Symaskl .......  ...       )
Charles Gardner ........   ees  
M. Claphouse  ...  ...     eens  
Ilerbert F. Shaw  ...  ...     
$ 
Transfers to other departments............... 
Total oo...     ce   ce     es 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SALARIES.
SALARY ACCOUNT ITEMIZED.

N. P. Avery, Mavor............e    
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk..................  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer.............  
D. W. Kenney, City Auditor..................  
Thomas F. MeCabe, Tax Collector..............  
Willam T. Walsh, City Messenger.............  
M. J. Griffin, City Solicitor...................  
P. J. Tetreanlt, Sealer Weights and Measures...  
J. D. Goddu. Sealer Weights and Measures.....  
A. Judson Rand, Caretaker City Hall Clock.....  
John F. Sheehan. Registrar of Voters..........  
James J. Dunn, Registrar of Voters............  
Thomas Stansfield. Registrar of Voters........  
Charles U. Roy, Registrar of Voters...........  
Casper Ranger. Chairman License Commission.  
M. J. Bowler, License Commissioner...........  
D. H. Ives, License Commissioner.............  
Frederick Kilian. Clerk License Commission. ...  
Mary M. Rooney, Stenogrpher, City Auditor....  
John C. Doran. Clerk of Committees...........  
Jeremiah Scannell, City Hall Janitor..........  
Care of City Hall, additional..................  
Contingent  ...  ...         
Precinct Officers .....        
Transferred to General Receipts...............  
Total  ...     ee 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
CITY INDEBTEDNESS
Crry Dest Nor EXEMPTED
Bonds, years  per cent, Municipal, Due Sept.  |
“ (Fire Dep’t) May  
“ ‘“ (Litigation) “July 
Total Unexempted Debt ............ . ece oe c tees tseretet  
EXEMPTED Derr **
Bonds, years  per cent. H. and W. R. R. Stock, Due Oct. 
“  H. and S. H. Falls Bridge, Sept.  Sewer, CTY May  
“ Hi and W. R.R. Stock July  
“ Sewer, Oct.  
‘  —H.and W. Bridge, “June  
“ School June  
“  $chool “July  
“ School Mch.  
“ “* Water Jan.  ater July  
“ Water June  
Exempted Debt .o........... .c. eccteetctee cetteeterestess tee etescsseseese 
Total debt met by Sinking Fund ..o ete s 
** Exempted by special Acts of the Legislature.
SINKING FUNDS
Sinking Fund, Water Bonds,  
Sinking Fund, City Debt  
Holyoke and Westheld R. R. Stock, par value,  
—-— -—— 
Net Debt... et   

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SERIAL Loans, UNEXEMPTED
Bonds, yrs. School ($  annually), Due May 
“  Municipal ($  annually), June  
“  Highways ($  annually), May  
“ Sewers ($  annually), May  
“  Highways ($  annually), Aug.  
“  Highways, Sewers and Sidewalks
($  annually), —Mch.  
“  School ($  annually), Sept.  
“ Municipal ($  annually), Aug.  
“  Sewer ($  annually), “Aug.  
. School ($ ,C(  annually), Sept. §, 
‘  Park ($  annually to  ,
$  annually to  ), ‘Apr.  
“  Municipal ($  ann’ly to  ,
$  ann'ly to  ), Apr.  
“  Municipal ($  ann’ly to  ,
;  ann’ly to  ), Apr. 
  School ($  annually), Apr. 
| 
SrrRiaL Loans, EXEMPTED
Bonds, yrs. Gas and Electric Light ($ 
, annually, Due Dec.  
“ Gas E. Light ($  ann’ly), Oct. 
,  Gas E. Light ($  ann’ly), ‘“ Nov.  Gas E. Light ($  ann’ly), “April 
. Gas E. Light ($  ann’ly), Sept. “ Gas Light ($  ann'ly), Apr. 
$  
Grand Total Net Debt... ce  tects etettetsse eseere  
ASSETS
Water Works, 
All other wity Buildings, assessed valuation,
( Land and Parks real estate only,  
ras and Electric Light Plants, assessed valuation, 
—————. 
Excess of assets over liabilities, 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
CASH ACCOUNT
 
Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Uisbursements to date, 
Nov.  .—Receipts to date, Nov.  .—Balance  
$  
LOANS—SERIAL BONDS
 
Oct.  .-Transfer to Parks,  Oct.  .-Patk Bords, 
“ “City Yd. Building, ‘‘  Municiral Bonds,  )
“ ‘* Engine House Addn., ‘School Bonds,  
“ ‘* Ward Two School, Municipal Bonds,  
“ ‘“ Sewers, Construction, Interest Accrued,  
"  ‘‘ New Fire Engine,  “Gas and Electric Bonds,  .)
“ ‘* Sidewalks, Interest Accrued,  
“e  ‘* Ward Two School,  
“ ‘* Highways per Const.,  
“ ‘** Jackson st. Undps,  
“* ‘e “* Interest City Debt,  
“ “G FE. Extension  
“ ‘“ ““G. E. Interest  
“ ‘* Oakdale School 
$  
LOANS—TEMPORARY
 
Dec.  .—To Balance,  Nov.  .—Loans Paid to date, 
Oct.  .—Loans to date, Nov.  .—Loans Outstanding,  
$  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
TAXES
THoMasS F. McCabe, Tax Collector, in Account with City of Holyoke.

 

Tec.  .—Balance Dune, Taxes,  Nov.  .—Receipts, Taxes, 
“ Balance Due, Taxes,  Abated, Taxes, 
‘ Balance Due, Taxes,  Receipts, Taxes, 
“ Balance Due, Taxes,  Abated, Taxes, 
“ Addit’] Asst., Taxes,  Receipts, Taxes, 
“ Total Levy, Taxes,  Abated, Taxes, 
" St. Ry. Excise Taxes,  Receipts, Taxes, 
“ Bal. sidewalk Ass’t,  Atated, Texes, 
“ Bal. Sidewalk Ass’,  Receipts, Taxes, 
“ Bal. Sewers, Ass't,  Abated, Taxes, 
Bal. Sewers, Ass's,  Abated St. Ry.,

  “e Excise Tax,  
Mar.  —Sidewalk Ass‘t,  Receipts, Sidewalk, 
July  —Sewers, Ass’t,  Receipts, Sidewalk, 
Nov. —Interest paid to date, Receipts, Sewers, 

 Receipts, Sewers, 

“ Receipts, Sidewalk, 

  Receipts, Sewers, 

’ “‘ Receipts, lot. Taxes, 

“ Receipts, Int. Taxes,  H,  

“  Receipts, Int. Taxes, 

“ Receipts, Int. Taxes, 

“ Receipts, Int. Tax s, 

Outstanding  

$  

SUMMARY UnNcocLEciLbD TAXES ANL ASSESSMENTS —

 Taxes,  Taxes,  Taxes,  Taxes,  Sidewalks, Assessment,  Sidewalks, Assessment,  Sidewalks, Assessment,  Sewers, Assessment,  Sewers, Assessment,  Sewers, Assessment,  

Total uncollected, ————— 

PIERRE BONVOULOIR, City Treasurer, Sidewalk and Sewer Assessments.

 

Dec.  -- Bal. Sidewalk Assessment,  Nov.  .—Receipts, Sidewalks, 
“ Bal. Sidewalk Assessment, Receipts, Sidewalks, 
“ Bal. Sidewalk Assessment, Sewers, 
“ Ral. Sewer Assessment,  Outstanding,  
“ Bal. Sewer Assessment, 

$  
SUMMARY UNCOLLECTED SIDEWALK AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS
Sidewalk Assessment, 
Sidewalk Assessment,  
Sidewalk Assessment, 
Sidewalk Sewer, Assessment, 
Sidewalk Sewer, Assessment, 
——- 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
ANNUAL NET DEBT STATEMENT.

The following table shows the net debt at the close of
each municipal year beginning with  :

Year. Net Debt. Increase. Decrease.
  ..............  ..............  ..............  ..............   ..............   ..............   ..............  

, ..............   ..............   ..............   ..............  

Additions to the Sinking Funds during the year were
as follows: For water debt, city debt (exclusive of loan payments), total, To
retire serial bonds, city debt, Gas and Electric Plant
debt, ten year bonds matured, Grand
total payments to Sinking Funds and retiring of matured
bonds, .

There was borrowed during the year  for the
following named purposes: Parks, City Yard
Building, Engine House Addition, Ward
Two School, Sewers, Permanent Construction, ;
New Fire Engine additional appropriation, Sidewalks, Highways, Permanent Construction, ;
Jackson Street Underpass, Oakdale School, ;
Gas and Electric Extensions, .

Total payments on entire city debt including additions
to the Sinking Funds, excess of payments over
loans, .

Respectfully submitted,
D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

Report of Water Board.

To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen:
The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present the following as their report for the year ending D mber ,
RECEIPTS.
Balance from  .............c  
Water rents  ...         ee)  
Interest om meters...  ... cc 
SEPVIGCE PIPO co.cc        eens  
Interest on bank deposits................  
Materials and labor .................... ..  
Hav coc      eens  
Ice privilege and supervision. ............  
Apples Loc en neces  
Wood oo. ec    eens  )
Lease of land to Holyoke Street Railway Co.  
Rental of Connery farm................  
Serap won, ete. oo...   eens  
SUNAPIOES Lo ce    eens  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.

Main pipe extension and supphies............ 
Service pipe extension and supphes.........  
Main pipe repairs ......  ...         
Service pipe repairs...  ...    
Hydrants  ...  ...     eens  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Reservoirs:
Ashley and Wright Ponds, and Whiting
} Street and High Service..............  

Fomer  ...   cc cc      eens  
Supervision and inspection ..............  
MeterS ....   ce  ce  t    
Barn oo... ce   ce   eens  ,. 
a) OX) cc  
Office Lo cc        ees  
Engineering ......... cc        .
William J. Murray (land)..................  
IIolvoke Sehuetzen Bund (land).............  
Commissioners of Sinking Fund, City of HolVoke, taxes  ...        eens  
Interest on bonds .......... eens  
Transfer to Sinking Fund (Bonds due in 
Transfer to Sinking Fund (Bonds due in 
For all other purposes................  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank.... 
Cash in Park National Bank.......  
Cash on hand .............     

——.  
$ 
January .

I hereby certify that have examined the cash book and
daily collection book of the Water Department for year ending December found them correctly added and the
vouchers for payment properly approved. The cash balance.
$ has been duly verified.

D. W. KENNEY.
City Auditor.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

The past vear has been one of progress in the Department both in the development of the system and in the increase in the receipts over those of the previous vear, notwithstanding the reduction in the meter rates, for had the
three rate system, which previous to prevailed, our ipts would have been  more. This amount

: equally distributed among the metered water takers is so
much saved to them. The position taken by the Department
that the installing of test meters would show net gain
to the consumer should he buy his water at the existing |
meter rate has been sustained. But as the twelve months
test will not be completed until April no action will be taken
until this table is complete. The Department hopes to be
able then to reduce water rents by allowing this privilege,
or by reducing the present rates.

To change the rates and adopt flat uniform rate the
same to all has been study, not only here but in many
water departments. We feel we have sucded along the
lines of gradual reduction in rates to the consumer, and a
gradual reduction of waste, thereby saving to the Department the waste which can be sold to meet loss in rates by
less actual consumption.

The report of the Supermtendent. covering the operations for the vear. is respectfully submitted as part. of
the Board’s report.

Report of the Superintendent.
To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners.
GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to present herewith the
thirty-sixth annual report of the Superintendent, covering
the operations of the vear ending December .

The extensions to the distribution system will be found in
Table of this report. The principal items of the extensions consist of the work of laving  -inch main at the
Rock Cut and  -inch main on the Highlands. The  inch main at the Roek Cut was laid froin the Wright Pond
gate house to connect with the mains east of the new gate
house at the end of the canal, distance of about feet.
at total cost of This main was laid for the
purpose of connecting the High Service Reservoir with the
distribution system and is intended to take the place of the
old)  -inch main, Jaid in  which is now at the bottom
of the eanal ma condition unfit for use. By using this new
 -inch main the higher sections of the eity may be suppled directly through either of the  -inch mains leading
from Ashley Ponds. The sections thus supphed from the
High Service Reservoir will inelude Elmwood, as far easterly as the corner of Brown avenne and South street. the
whole of Oakdale north and west of Bh street. the higher
elevations of the city in the vicinity of the High School and
the whole of the Highlands south of the Heywood honiestead on Northampton street, and westerly of School street.
By the use of this  -inch main it is also possible to discharge
the water from the Fomer Reservoir directly into the mains
leading from Ashley Pond. But when this is done the [heh
Service Reservoir cannot be used. Tn order to use both the
omer water and the High Service water at the same time

. REPORT OF WATER BUARD  
a new main must first be laid from the foot of the High Service hill to connect with the mains below the new gate house.
Iv the use of this new main it is also possible to supply the
city without Ashley Pond by using the water of Fomer and
the water from the Whiting Street Reservoir or by the use
of the IIigh Service Reservoir and the Whiting Street Reservoir. Since the Tigh Service was turned on the pressure
has been taken on several hydrants and will be found in a
table on another page of this report.

The  -inch main on the Highlands was laid from the
intersection of Madison avenue with Nonotuck street
through Nonotuck street. Highland avenue, Pleasant street
and Lincoln street to connect with  -inch main at the
intersection of Lincoln and Hampden streets, distance of
  feet. at total cost of This main was laid
for the purpose of conveying the water of the Whiting

Street Reservoir to the lower sections of the city when the
Ihgh Service Reservoir is supplying Elmwood and the Highlands.

The minor extensions consist of laying  -ineh main
in Pleasant street from Amherst street to Princeton street,
a distance of feet, at cost of of constructing a
By-pass around the meter house at the Whiting Street Reservoir at cost of of laying an  -inch main on
Winter street from Appleton street to the Barlow Mnufaeturing Company plant. distance of feet, at cost of
$ of laying  -inch main in Pinehurst street, from
Sargeant street to Franklin street, distance of feet, at
a cost of of Javing temporary  -inch main in Yale
street. from Pleasant street to the Atherton house, distanee
of feet, at cost of and temporary  -inch
main in Newton Place from Suffolk street north, distance
of feet, at cost of .

Constant vigilance on the part of the watchmen at the
Ponds is required to maintain the purity of the waters and
to keep the system in good condition. The intakes and

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

screens must be kept free from obstruction by ice in winter
or by leaves or other debris during the spring, summer or
fall; the edges of the ponds must be cleaned of all unhealthy
and unsightly matter; the roads through and around the
ponds must be kept safe and inviting to the public and the
meters on the large mains must be given care and attention.

Such work is expensive, when the immense area to be
covered is considered, but it is as indispensable as the maintenance of the distribution system. If ‘‘an ounce of prevention  worth pound of cure’’ the Department can better afford to employ men to prevent pollution of its reservoirs than the people can afford to pay doctors to cure disease resulting from drinking impure water.

} RECOMMENDATIONS.

For the purpose of increasing the pressure and affording better facilities for fighting fire, would suggest that
some of the smaller mains in Ward One and also in Ward

| Two be replaced by mains of greater diameter and that as
many of the dead ends be removed as your finances will
| allow, by extending the mains to complete the circulation.

I wish to call your attention particularly to mains in
Mosher, Bowers, Center and Dwight streets in Ward One,
which are located in very thickly settled portion of the
city, and which would prove decidedly inadequate for fire
purposes. In Ward Two the  -inch pipe in Sargeant street
now ending at Park street should be extended to connect
with the dead end of an  -inch main near Summer street.
In Spring street and in Hamilton street there are dead ends
which should be connected with the main in Raee street and
the main in Park street.

A new main should be laid from Mount Marie Institution to Brightside Institution, distance of about feet
through private land to afford better fire protecton to
Brightside and the lower end of the city.

)
|
|
REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
At the present time Mt. St. Vincent is supplied from a
 -inch main that extends from Northampton street through
the Mt .St. Vincent property to the City Farm. This main
should be replaced by main of greater diameter during
the coming year. When this is done all the buildings south
of the Whiting farm should be supplied from the Ashley
Ponds through the main in Homestead avenue.
The main in Longwood avenue should be extended to aecommodate the buildings now being erected.
I would also suggest that fountain for the purpose of
aeration be constructed below the upper Whiting Street
Reservoir as recommended by Mr. Allen Hazen, C. E.
There is plenty opportunity for improvement at the
several reservoirs and would suggest that as much of this
work be done during the coming year as your finanees will
permit. For instance, new road might be built to the
High Service Reservoir, eliminating steep grades and making the Reservoir more accessible; some of the small swampy
ponds might be filled in, particularly the pond at the foot
of Bray hill and thereby destroy one of the anabaena incubators; the embankments on either side of the canal at the
Rock Cut might be properly graded and sloped to prevent
the earth caving in and filling the canal; the dike near the
lower end of Ashley Pond and abutting the railroad might
be made water tight by placing concrete core in the same;
and the roads, dikes and highways that run through and
around the ponds might be raised to good advantage.
Much water that should enter the Whiting Street Reservoir is lost through the seams and rocks between the
Loomis Reservoir on the Mountain and the Whiting Street
Reservoir. In the winter when the reservoir is full this loss
is of no consequence, but in summer when the reservoir  s
low the loss is particularly felt. would suggest that measures be taken to improve the condition existing there and
bring this water to the reservoir.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

I would also suggest that steps be taken to purchase
land at Fomer where it is intended to build storage reservoir, Should vou find it possible to acquire the necessary
land at an early date the actual work of construction could
be commenced during the summer months and continued
from vear to vear as the weather permitted. and the funds
for the same could be taken from the general receipts of the
Department. The negotiations for the purchase of lend
and the work of preparing the the plans could be going on
at the same time and everything could be in readiness to
start the work before June Ist next.

Respectfully submitted,
JOIN J. KIRKPATRICK.,
Superintendent.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
HYDRANT PRESSURE TEST.

A test of the pressure at hydrants located at the intersection of the different streets throughout the city was made
by the Superintendent, with the High Service Reservoir in
operation, and his report follows:

Holvoke, Mass., November .
To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners.

GENTLEMEN:—I submit for your consideration table
showing the water pressure at the hydrants located near the
intersection of the streets throughout the city. These pressures were taken with the High Service Reservoir in operation, and with the Whiting Street lower Reservoir and the
Ashley Pond Reservoir furnishing water in conjunction to
the lower part of the city or to that part of the city not
supplied from the High Service Reservoir:

ASHLEY POND AND WHITING STREET LOWER
RESERVOIR SUPPLY.

Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Adams and

Canal, S. W. corner. .....  ...       

Bridge, S. E. corner.........      

Main, N. E. corner... ..  ...  ee   

Park, N. W. Gorner.......       

Summer, N. W. corner..........         LOL
Appleton street near the river.................  
Appleton and

Bh, N. EB. corner...  . ec ees  

Bigelow, S. E. corner... ....  ...       OB

Bond, N. side  ...  ...        SI

Bowers, N. W. corner. ..........     

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Canal, S. W. corner.............   D
Chestnut. N. E. corner.................  
Elm, S. W. corner..............   §G 
High,  S. E. cormer .................       
Main, N. W. corner............ ececces  
Maple, S. W. cormer.............     es 
Newton, S. E. corner...........     TT
Pine, N. E. corner.............     
Race, S. E. corner...........  c.   ce      ) OF
Walnut, N. E. cormer............... cc 
- Winter, S. E. cormer...............    §§ 
Brooks and Grant, S. W. corner....................  
Cabot and
Bigelow, N. W. corner............c cc  
Bond, S. side... ....   cc           BQ
Bridge, S. E. corner............ cc      es 
Canal, N. E. corner.......  ...     es 
Chestnut, N. W. corner.........  ...   es)  
East, N. E. corner... ...          D
Elm, N. E. cormer.........  ... cc    eens  
Ifigh, S. E. cormer........  ...        es  
Maple, N. W. corner... ........       
Main, N. W. cormer......... cc     eens  
Newton, N. W. corner.........cc       
Race, N. E. corner. .........          
Summer, S. W. corner............e     OT
Canal and
Bridge, S. W. corner.........    ee t    OF
Grover, S. E. corner. .......  ...       
Main, N. BE. corner..............   
Summer, S. side... ..  ...   ee    
Cross and Main, S. W. ecorner.............ee ees) OF

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Dwight and
Bh, S. W. corner..............c cc  
Chestnut, N. E. cormer...............  
Elm, S. W. corner............c cc cc  
Front, N. W. cormer...........  ece   
High, S. E. cormer............. cc     
Linden, N. EB. corner...........   ecc  
Main, S. E. cormer...........cc cc cc D+
Maple, N. BE. corner..............  
Oak, S. W. cormer.........     ee   
Pine, N. W. corner..........cce   ce  se  
Race, S. W. corner..........        ees D
Railroad, S. W. corner.............     
Walnut, S. BE. eorner.......  ...     
East Dwight and
Bowers, N. E. corner............     
Bridge, N. E. cormer.......... ..      
Center, N. W. corner.........        
East, N. E. corner... ... ec      
West, N. W. corner.......  ...     eens  
Division and
High, S. E. corner.............        
Railroad, S. W. corner........... cc     UG
Ely and
Bowers, S. E. cornmer...........        
Ely Court, N. W. corner.............. D
Summer, N. W. corner............. +e -. OF
Essex and
Bond, S. W. corner............. ec  Sl
Bh, S. E. corner............        es) OD
Chestnut, N. W. corner...........    OF
Elm, N. W. corner. ....  ...  eeee     OF
High, N. E. corner...  ...  ee   TD

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Maple, S. W. cormer..............ce  
Newton, N. E. cormer........... ece es  
Pine, N. W. corner............         
Walnut, S. W. cormer...............     Ol
Fountain and
Chestnut, S. W. cornmer...........   OT
Elm, S. E. corner...  ...     
Front, N. W. corner............. cc Ol
High, N. W. corner.........  ...     OF
Maple, S. W. corner...........          
Union, S. E. eorner............-      cess  
Franklin and
Chestnut, N. E. corner ...........     OD
Commercial, N. W. corner.............  
High, N. W. corner. ....  ...      D
Maple, N. W. corner...  ...     
Hamilton and
Bridge, S. W. corner... ....  ...  ee    
Canal, S. W. corner. ......  ... ce      
East, S. E. corner... .....  c. eeeee    
Main, S. E. corner.....  ...         
Park, N. BE. corner... ....  ... ce       ees OD
Race, N. E. cormer... cc... ce       OM
Summer, N. W. ecorner..........        LOL
Hampden and
Chestnut, N. E. corner... .......... ee.  
Elm, S. W. corner...........  cs  
| Front, N. W. corner............     OI
High, S. E. corner........... cc ce  ee   A
Linden, S. E. corner.............- .ee     ees OF
Maple, N. W. corner. ....  .        
Pine, N. E. corner. ....... cc      
Prospect, N. FE. corner.............      

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Walnut, S. E. cormer.............     ees 
Washington, N. W. corner............. --  
Hampshire and
Chestnut, N. W. corner............. --. 
Elm, N. W. corner...  ... cc      ee) OOF
High, S. E. cormer...........   ee 
Maple, N. E. corner. ........  ...     es 
Hampshire Terrace and Northampton.  E. corner....  
Highland avenue and Nonotuck, N. E. ecorner........  
Hiteheock and
Dexter, S. E. cormer......  ...         DD
Northampton. N. W. corner...........  
Jackson and :
Bridge, S. E. corner. ........ cc      
Canal, S. W. corner...  ...        
Commercial, N. W. cornmer...................-.  
Maple. N. W. cormer...........    ,  
- Park, N. W. corner.........        es 
Race, N. BE. corner... ....  ec ce    
Summer, S. W. corner......... cc      ]
West end ....      ec      OF
James and Main, N. W. corner...........         
Lincoln and Pleasant. N. BE. corner. ............  
Lyman and .
Bridge, N. W. corner... ..  ...  ee   OB
Canal, N. E. corner...  ... ee  
Canal, N. W. corner.............   ec    OF
East. S. W. corner... ...  ... cc    ee    
Elm, S. W. corner...  ... cc    ee   ER
Chestnut, N. BE. corner...  ee    
Ely Court, S. EB. corner...    
Front, S. W. @eorner....  ... es SQ)

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Grover, N. W. cormer.............cc      OF
High, S. W. corner.........  ...   ee   
Maple, N. E. corner.............    cess  
Pine, S. .cormer.........  ce      
Prospect, S. E. corner............        OS
Walnut, S. W. corner.........      ee) 
Madison avenue and Northampton, N. E. corner......  
Meadow and Main, S. W. corner.............-.-.-..  
Mosher and
Bowers, S. E. corner...........      
Bridge, N. E. corner............ cc    OF
Canal, N. W. corner............. cc  OA
Center, S. W. cormer....  ... cc  ce      
East, S. W. corner...........cc        
West, S. E. corner............c   ee ees  SF
Norfolk and High, N. W. cormer..................-.  
Northampton street at the Castle...................  
Prew avenue and Temple, S. W. corner..............  
Prospect and
Chestnut, S. E. corner.............    ees 
High,  S. E. cormer....  ...  ...   eens  
Maple, S. W. corner. ......        OT
: Pine, S. EB. eorner.....  ...  eens  
Walnut, S. W. corner...  ...   cc        
River Terrace and Northampton street, N. E. corner..  
Ross avenue and Maple,  S. W. corner...............  
Samosett and
Center, N. W. corner... ...  ...    ee   
West, N. E. corner...  ... cc          ) 
Sargeant and
Bridge, S. BE. corner...  ...  ee )  
Canal, N. W. corner...  ... ce       LOT

REPURT OF WATER BOARD  
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Chestnut, N. E. corner................-s  
Elm, N. W. corner............eccec oO”
High, N. E. corner...........c   ee    bl
Main, S. W. cornmer.........      ees 
, Maple, S. E. corner..........     neces es  
Park, S. W. corner........... cc s  
Race, N. .corner....  ...   ecw        OTF
Summer, N. E. corner...........ccec IO
South and
Main, S. W. corner.......  ... cc       
Maple, N. W. cormer..........  s OO
Spring and
Main, S. E. corner............   s  
Park, S. W. corner...........   we     es OF
Race, S. E. corner... ......  ...         
Springfield Road
At end of line... ....  ...       
Brightside entrance ...........   
Old Ferry road... ....       ees  
NO. oc       ecse  
Upper Springfield Road, Griffin’s Hill...............  
Upper Springfield Road, near Mt. St. Vincent........  
Suffolk and )
Bh, N. E. corner............    
Chestnut, N. W. corner.................. -.  »+ 
Elm, N. W. corner............      
High, S. E. corner...........       ees 
Linden, N. E. corner............ .. --  
Maple, S. BE. corner...................  
Oak, N. W. corner... ...  ...  ees  
Pine, S. W. corner...  ...        ees §—  
Walnut, S. E. corner... ..  ...     ees GF

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Vernon and Main. N. W. corner....................  d
Vineent and Arthur, S. W. corner................-. )
Worcester Place and Commercial, N. W. corner......  
City Almshouse, West side..............  eens 
Brightside Institution ...........  ...   ee   IO
Mount Marie .......  ...         OD
Whiting Farm, upper Springfield Road..............  
HIGH SERVICE RESERVOIR SUPPLY.
Allyn and
Arlington, S. E. corner.............      
Nonotuck, .W. corner.............cc  ees) 
Northampton, S. E. cormer..............  
Pearl, S. W. corner.............cc     .  FL
Pleasant, N. W. corner............   ew aes 
Waldo, S. E. corner...  ... ce     
Williams, N. W. corner.........   
Amherst street at west end............... .--  
Appleton and
Bh, S. W. corner. .........  ...     es  
Dwight. S. W. cormer............. ce   TF
Linden, N. E. corer...  ...  ...ee   
Locust. N. -E. corner. .......... cc      IY
Oak, S. W. corner.....  ...         es  
Syeamore, S. corner... ....           OI
Beacon avenue and
Canby, N, E. corner... ..  ...     UO
Nonotuck, N. W. corner. ...........   OD
Northampton, N. E. corner............. -.  
Parker, N. BE. corner... ec    OO
Pleasant, East side... .....  ec       OOF
Bh street at City Hospital......................  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Cabot and
Bh, N. E. cormer.......  ...  eeee OOD
Linden, N. E. corner... .........        BU
Locust, S. E. corner... ..  ... eeee   ES
Pine, S. E. corner... ..  ... ce       OR
Oak, N. E. corner... ..        ORG
Sveamore, N. W. corner..........      ED
Walnut. N. E. corner... cc ce ees  
Carleton and
Chapin, S. W. corner... ......  ...     LD
Russell Terrace, S. E. eorner.............. 
Cherry and Hillside avenue, S. W. corner............  
Clark and Northampton, N. W. corner.............-. .
Columbus avenue and
Northampton, N. W, corner............. -.  
Columbus avenue at the west end...................  
Congress avenue and Elm, S. W. corner.............  
Dartmouth and Pleasant, N. E. corner.............. 
Davis and Elm, S. W. ecorner........ ......    
Davis street at north west end.................  
Dwight and
Clinton avenue, S. W. ecorner..................  
Lynwood avenue. S. W. corner... ........ 
Nonotuek, N. W. corner. ....... ... ce      
Northampton, W. side... ....       EO
Parker, N. W. corner... ...  ...    
School, N. W. corner...  .  eeeeee    
St. Jerome avenue, S. W. eorner................  
Essex and
Bh, N. W. corner... ec   
Linden, N. W. corner...  ...        
Locust, S. W. corner... cc       ?
Oak, No W. commer... cc.       QT

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Poplar, N. E. corner............       TT
Sycamore, N. BE. corner...............   ee. 
Fairfield avenue and
Nonotuck, N. W. cormer.............. - 
Northampton, N. E. cormer.............. ...-  
Pearl, S. W. corner.............   cesses  
Pleasant, N. W. corner............  
Franklin and
Linden, N. E. corner.............. cc  .  
Locust, N. E. corner............       
Magnolia, S. W. corner...........    reese §— 
St. Jerome avenue, S. W. corner............... 
Syeamore,  S. E. corner........... cec  
Gates and
Chapin, N. E. cormer.............     
Elm, N. W. corner...........      
Gilman and
Ball, N. E. cormer.........  .   ce  OO
Northampton, N. W. corner..............  
Glen and
Brown avenue, BE. side.........          TO
Northampton, N. EB. corner. ............   ET
Hampden and
Canby, S. W. corner,.......  ee  
Howard, N. W. corner............  cc     ees  
Nonotuck, S. W. corner............     OCF
Parker, S. W. corner...  ...eeee  
Pearl, No. W. corner... .. ce  ees im
Pleasant, N. W. corner... cc. cee   OS
School, S. W. corner...  ee    
Tavlor, S. side...   ce        OTT
Waldo, S. W. corner...    ee   
Washington, S. W. corner... cc...  ee   ORT

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Hampshire and
Bh,  S. E. corner.......  ...        
Locust, S. E. corner... ....  ...      
Oak, N. W. Gormer...... cc     ee   
Linden, S. E. corner.............. ce ec    
Pine, S. W. cormer............ eeences 
Sycamore, N. E. corner............  .  
Walnut, N. E. corner.............    
Highland avenue and
Nonotuck, W. side... ...   eeees  
Pearl, S. W. corner... .......        es OD
* Pleasant, N. W. corner.............  
Howard street at the west end......................  
Laurel and
Brown avenue, E. side............... e--  
Willow, N. side... ..     cc         
Lincoln and
Arlington, S. E. cormer........... ..e     
Nonotuck, N. W. cormer..............   
Northampton, W. side.............    
Pearl, S. E. corner... .. cc ec     OR
Pleasant, N. W. corner...........  ...  
Taylor, N. E. corner.......  ...        AG
Williams, side... cc  ee  ED
Linden and Bh, N. W. corner...................  
Miller avenue at south end................  D
Morgan and
Nonotuck, N. side... ......      ONE |
Northampton, N. E. corner.............. 
Myrtle avenue and
Cook, N. side... ..            OTE
Northampton, N. E. side.........  ...      tO

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Nonotuck street at the north end...................  
Pearl street at the north end....................--  
Sargeant and
Chapman avenue, N. E. corner................  
Linden, N. BE. corner... ..  ...   eeee)  
Locust, S. E. corner...  ... cc  eeee” LTD
Magnolia, N. W. corner...  ...    es  
Pine, No. Wo weormer. cc... ce ce     
St. Jerome avenue, S. W. corner... ......... ra)
Sveamore, N. EB. corner. .........       
Walnut, N. E. corner... cc.     
St. James avenue and
Lynwood avenue, N. W. corner............  
Northampton, N. W. corner.........    
St Jerome avenue. N. W. corner.......   )
South and
Brown avenue, E. side... ..  ...ee  s+
Chapin, N. W. corner... ..  ... cc       
Charles, N. side... cc cc ce ce     
Northampton, S. BE. corner. .......... 
Russell Terrace, S. W. eorner. oo... cc.ee 
Suffolk and
Locust, No sides...   ee     ) 
Sveamore, No SIU@. cc     eens  
Taylor street. morth end... .... cc cc ecteens
View and Brown avenue, N. W. corner..........  
Washington avenue and
Charles, S. KE. corner. sc...eeee   
Cook, No Wo. corner... occ.ce     wi
Ilarrison avenue, N. BE. corner. .......  ee    
Northampton, No EK. corner... cc... e ees  )
Westfield Road at Shumway’s, N. side...........  
Willow and Brown avenue, EB. sides... .........  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Location of Hydrants. Pounds Pressure.
Mount St. Vineent.......  ...       .  
Northampton street at Whiting farm................  
City Almshouse  ...  ...          AT
Northampton street at Oscar Ely’s..................  
Hampden and Northampton, W. side................  

Respectfully,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
Superintendent.

. REPORT OF WATER BOARD

HIGH SERVICE RESERVOIR IN OPERATION.

The new  -inch main at the Rock Cut was completed
on September  th and the High Service system was in full
operation on the evening of that day. The pressure on the
Highlands and at Elmwood was increased about forty
pounds by the turning on of the High Service Reservoir.

Several breaks in the main pipes occurred but were
soon repaired.

TEST METERS.

Over hundred test meters were installed during the
early part of the year, in the different classes of buildings,
for the purpose of ascertaining the quantity of water used
and the cost of the same at metered rates as compared with
the present fixed charges.

A monthly record has been kept of the meter readings,
showing the cost at metered and fixed rates, the loss or gain
and the average daily consumption per capita, and the Commissioners have been furnished with an itemized report of
the same each month. The test meters are to remain in
operation for year, so that thorough test may be obtained, and the data is to be used by the Commissioners in
determining their future course in regard to domestic rates
and the use of meters. .

Following are the test meter returns for the, nine
months ending December  st:

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TEST METERS.
Cost at metered rate includes interest on meter.
REPORT FOR MONTH OF APRIL,  .
z a
   
| |s ,\ 
Name gelSe Sz  
g s|of  Os  
A. O. H. Society, |
Front street,  /$ /$ 
O. D. Allyn,
  Locust street,  
O. D. Allyn, |
  Sycamore street,    
American Writing, |
  Main street, 
Geo. P. B. Alderman, |
  High street,   
E. L. Alderman, |
  High street,  
N. P. Avery, !
  Pine street,  
C. E. Ball, |
  High street, 
E. Benard Son, |
  Lyman street,  
E. Benard Son, |
  Lyman street, of 
Frank Beebe, |
The Maplewood, )  
F. J. Baker, |
  High street, 
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  and Cdommercial,!  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
dd Plymouth place,  
Bibeau Masse. |
  High street,  d
Lucy Bork, Dwight street, po 
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
  South street, !  
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street,  od
J. J. Cavanaugh, |
  Pine street,   
ae

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
o vo: a) eS
i gs: gS VE
  te Pa ae
Name DF SE &
|  g* Bs gg Be
  sg Hs Cs  a
  Dwight street, (|  |)  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street, |  
Coffey Estate, i
  Dwight street, 
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street,  
Thomas F. Connor, .
  Maple street, La  
Caledonian Club, |
  High street, neva  
; Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
  Dwight street,   
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street,   
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,  
Curran Bros., |
  Main street,  
Dean Dennis, |
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, |
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, |
  Lyman street,   
Moses Ehrlich, |
  Main street,  
E. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street, , DO
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
Ely Lumber Company, |
  Maple street,   
A. Ferguson, |
  Brown avenue,    
A. Ferguson, |
“Princeton,” Elm st.,   
A. Ferguson, |
“Cambridge,” Elm st.,    
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street,  
| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
| eo, gS ge vs
 so  m.
| Name gzl $! Se gs
Y Ss)  SY
Ss og 
Oo A. hm:  h
!
| |
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,   
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road,    
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street, ;,   
Germania Block, |
  Park street, 
T. J. Gibson, |
E. Dwight street, |}   
Patrick Green, |
  Lyman street,   
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street,  
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street,  vad  
John Heinritz, :
  Main street,   
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hampshire street,   
John Hildreth, |
  Main street,  
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street,  
Holyoke Belting Co., .
Appleton street,  
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,   
Holyoke Water Power, |
Canal and Main street,   
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street,  
James Kennedy, |
  Summer street,  
James Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,  ss  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,  
L. A. Lapense, |
  Main street,  |
, |

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD
 
- .o/  ES Sz
Name fe, es sz SE dé
rs) cs ne Av
Z poe; e* Be ae
  a
| |
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,   
A. Lavoie, |
  Fountain street, i; 
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street,   
: E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street,  
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street, 
Lyman Mills, |
  Lyman street,  
Lyman Mills, |
Hampden street,    
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street,    
Rev. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,  
Estate W. L. Martin, |
  High street,   
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street,  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street,  
J. K. McCarthy, |
  High street,  has)  
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  
Hugh McLean, |
  Glen street,    
Osia Menard, !
  High street, '  
James Moffatt, |
  Taylor street,  
William Morrison, |
  Maple street,  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,  
Val Moquin, |
  Lyman street,   
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
Suffolk street,  
George F. O'Connor, |
  High street, 
| |

, REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TO  ne
é ie EG
  |O
is wt, &
Name feel is 'dg
g  re 
.  my  CS h
| |
J. H. O’Connell, |
  Dwight street,  
William O’Connell, |
Beacon avenue,  
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, |
  High street,  
George Plimpton, |
  High street,   
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club, ;  
J. N. Prew, |
  Main street,   
Casper Ranger, |
Appleton street,  
James J. Reardon, |
  High street, 
Charles Rheaume, |
  Summer street, 
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street,  
Clovis Roberts, |
  Main street, soo 
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street, 
R. W. Sanderson,
  High street,   
C. M. Sheldon, |
Bridge street,  sy  
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street,   
Martin Smith, |
  Pleasant street,   
Jacob Solin, !
  Hampden street,   
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue, |  
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street,  ”y  
St. Jerome Ins. School, |
Hampden street,  
Thomas E. Sullivan, |
  Pleasant street,    
Clement Terrien, |
  East street,  
|

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
ne] 
A LY  g
 'le|  £E YE
Name  oe Hz BF
x §s |}  ),UC CC
;  “ol &o ev  s
| Sif os CA am
| :
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street,   
James L. Tighe, .
  Hampden street,  AY)
Annie Towvin, |
  Main street, !  
Transcript Pub. Co., |
High street,  
A. R. Vincent, |
  Main street,   ,
Michael Walsh, |
  Pearl street,  
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,  
Sarah Wolcott, |
  High street,  
J. F. Sullivan, |
Dwight street,   
| |
| |
|  !
| |

. REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
REPORT FOR MONTH OF MAY,  .
 bat
: k,  .v ES
 ws JS
  .
“ems PRawla HR
 Fi Ge ae os
Ss)  Hs Cs  a
| a
|
A. O. H. Society, |
Front street,  /$  
O. D. Allyn, |
  Locust street, 
O. D. Allyn, |
  Sycamore street,   
American Writing, |
I Main street,   
Geo. P. B. Alderman, |
  High street,   
E. L. Alderman, |
  High street,  
N. P. Avery, |
  Pine street,   
C. E. Ball, |
  High street,   
E. Benard Son, |
  Lyman street,   
E. Benard Son, |
  Lyman street,  
Frank Beebe, |
The Maplewood,  
F. J. Baker, |
  High street, |}  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  Commercial street,  
P. Beaucamp Son, !
  Plymouth place,  
Bibeau Masse. |
  High street,   
Lucy Bork, |
  Dwight street,   
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
  South street, '  
John H. Bell, |
  Cottage avenue, |  
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street,   
J. J. Cavanaugh, |
  Pine street,   
| |
a a

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
—- Fy) P) Ec
caries be
!  |!) "Name ae my co  
oF Be cg  
| Ss]  |e.
|S sie jee
|
, Robert Clark, |
  Dwight street,  
Dr. Cloutier, r
  Main street,  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street, 
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street,   
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street,   
Thomas F. Connor, |
  Maple street, peas ak 
Caledonian Club, |
  High street, / 
Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
  Dwight street, bis   
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street,  
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,   
Curran Bros..,. |
  Main street,  !)   
Dean Dennis, |
  High street,  
Thomas Dillon, |
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, |
  Lyman street, 
Moses Ehrlich, |
  Main street, !  
E. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street,  
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,  
Ely Lumber Company, |
  Maple street,  
A. Ferguson, |
  Brown avenue,  La 
A. Ferguson, |
‘*Princeton,”’  aa  
A. Ferguson, |
“Cambridge,”   
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street,  
| |
|
Digitized by Google

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
yi  .Y  
x  |e.) Ee  
“same fr,  Es Pe DT |e
g  ss [Se
Yu  )
  son Os Za
| |
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street, |  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road,   
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street, ,  
Germania Block, |
  Park street,  
T. J. Gibson, |
E. Dwight street,   
Patrick Green, |
  Lyman street, |  
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street,  
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street, |;  
John Heinritz,
  Main street,  
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hampshire street,   
John Hildreth, |
  Main street,  
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street,  
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,  
Holyoke Belting Co., |
Appleton street,  
Holyoke Water Power, |
Canal street,   
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street,   
James Kennedy, |
  Summer street,   
James Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,   
John J. Kirkpatrick, |
  Howard street, BT  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,  
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
| o£ eS)  eS a
Name se  
oS) BUR PA Cz OO s
| |
L, A. Lapense, |
  Main street,  
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,  
A. Lavoie, |
  Fountain street,   
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street, ,; 
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street,  
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street,  
Lyman Mills, |
  Lyman street,  
Lyman Mills, |
  Hampden street,  d
Lyman Mills. |
Oliver street,   
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street, |  
Rev. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,  
Estate W. L. Martin, |
lod High street,  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street,    
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street,  d
J. K. McCarthy, |
  High street,   
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  !) 
Hugh McLean, |
  Glen street,   
Osia Menard, |
  High street,  
James Moffatt, |
»  Taylor street,  ;} 
William Morrison, |
  Maple street,  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,   
| |
cc a

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
| 
E ct ew) i)  ie  oe
ry ws Ff  ey  
Name  Te Fs FS a
a ery),  wD c
e SE) #™ &s ez |-
a gs [zg
  “nz te lee
es es es
Val Moquin, |
  Lyman street,   .
Val Moquin, |
  Union street,   
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
  Suffolk street,   
George F. O'Connor, |
  High street,  
J. H. O’Connell, |
  Dwight street,  
William O’Connell, |
Beacon avenue,   
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, !
  High street,   
Isabella T. O'Connor, |
Dwight street,   
George A. Plimpton, |
  High street,  |  
C. M. Porter, |
  Dwight street, 
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club, .  
J. N. Prew, |
  Main street, |  
Casper Ranger, |
Appleton street, . 
James J. Reardon, |
  High street,  
Charles Rheaume, !
  Summer street,  
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street,   
Clovis Roberts, |
  Main street, 
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street, 
R. W. Sanderson, |
  High street,  
C. M. Sheldon, |
Bridge street,  
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street,  
Martin Smith, I
  Pleasant street, 
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
oe Tt EG
  ot bs oe
 wy  ante wy —Name ie SE |é
  eg [
| a]  go 
| sof Hs Cs 
Jacob Solin, |
  Hampden street,  )]  
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue, At  
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
‘Maple street,  ,
St. Jerome Ins. School, |
Hampden street, 
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street,  
Thomas E. Sullivan, |
  Pleasant street,    
Elphege St. Jacques, |
  Ely street,  
Clement Terrien, |
  East street,   
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street, |!  
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street, |!   
Annie Towvin, |
  Main street, ,  
Transcript Pub. Co., |
High street,  
A. R. Vincent, |
  ‘Main street,   
Michael Walsh, |
  Pearl street,    
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,  
Sarah A. Wolcott, |
  High street,  
oe SO
| |
|  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
REPORT FOR MONTH OF JUNE,  .
| 
z  vz gS
 Je |S
Name |) ez)  se Se ss
g  FE
G s| 
A. O. H. Society, ,
Front street,  '$ /$ 
O. D. Allyn,
  Locust street,   
O. D. Allyn,
. Sycamore street,   
American Writing,
  Main street,   
Geo. P. B. Alderman,
  High street,  
BE. L. Alderman,
  High street,  
N. P. Avery, |
 Pine street, |  
C. E. Ball,
  High street,   
Frank Beebe, |
The Maplewood,  
F. J. Baker, |
  High street,  S)  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  and ‘esa   
P. Beaucamp Son, |
) Plymouth place,   
Bibeau Masse. |
  High street,   
Lucy Bork, |
  Dwight street,   
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
Elmwood Pharmacy, vio   
John H. Bell,
  Cottage avenue, an  
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street,  
Robert Clark, |
  Dwight street,   
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,   
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street,  
: oe

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
ee  sf '& 
Name Se ide
yo ob aye nb ct aU
  ve  ‘ac  
| Ss  Se lem
|
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street, {|   
Thomas F. Connor, |
  Maple street,   
Caledonian Club, |
High street,  
Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
  Dwight street,   
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street,   
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,  
Curran Bros., |
  Main street,   
Dean Dennis, |
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, |
  High street,  
Thomas Dillon, !
  Lyman street,   
Patrick J. Dowd, .
  Pine street,  
Florence J. Donoghue, |
  Lyman street, om  
Florence J. Donoghue, |
  Lyman street, *- 
Moses Ehrlich, :
  Main street,  
Ek. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street,   
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
Ely Lumber Company, .
  Maple street,   
A. Ferguson, |
  Brown avenue,  
A. Ferguson, |
“Princeton,”  
A. Ferguson, |
“Cambridge,”  
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD |
 os  , gs
Name gz efi se Sy jPs
| ge oe eg |FS
, ce .
.  mh ao on len
| |
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  sa 
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road,  
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street,  
Germania Block, |
  Park street, )  
T. J. Gibson, |
Ek. Dwight and Center,  ;
Patrick Green, |
  Lyman street,  
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street,  
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street,   
John Heinritz. :
  Main street,  .o  
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hampshire street,   
John Hildreth, |
  Main street, ] *
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street, Lod  
Holvoke Belting Co., |
Appleton street,   
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,  
Holyoke Water Power, |
Canal and Main streets,   
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street,  
James Kennedy, |
  Summer street,   
James M. Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,   
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street, ]  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,  
L. A. Lapense, |
  Main street, |  
ee |
*Monitor.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
|  bs us ae
. eid,  BOS
‘ae  goigs DE SE Ba
Z|) og, ag s
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,  
A. Lavoie, |
  Fountain street,  
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street,   
E. L. Lyman. |
  Dwight street,  ea )r .a 
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street, !) ;
Lyman Mills, |
Lyman street, )  
Lyman Mills, |
Hampden street,  |/ |/ 
Lyman Mills, |
Oliver street,  ,  
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street,  
Rev. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street, ; la
Estate W. L. Martin, |
  High street,   
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street,  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street,  
J. K. McCarthy, |
  High street,   
McLean Bros., |
  High street,   
Hugh McLean, |
  Glen street,  
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  
Osia Menard, |
  High street, !)  
; James Moffatt, |
  Taylor street, 
William Morrison, |
  Maple street,  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,    
Val Moquin, |
  Lyman street,   
|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
; a
| a)  Ec
Name oz sf Se  g* Si) ao (so
| S: CS A
a |
Val Moquin, |
  Union street,   
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
Suffolk street,   
George F. O’Connor, |
  High street,   
J. H. O’Connell, |
  Dwight street,  
William O’Connell, |
Beacon avenue, {|    d
Jokn T. O’Donnell, |
  East street,   
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, |, |
  High street,  
Isabella T. O’Connor, |
Dwight and Pine sts., ,  
George A. Plimpton, |
  High street,  ol
C. M. Porter, |
  Dwight ‘street,  aa  
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club,  
J. N. Prew, i
  Main street,  
Casper Ranger, |
  Appleton street,  
James J. Reardon, |
  High street,  
Charles Rheaume, |
  Summer street,  
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street, !| 
Clovis Roberts, |
  Main street,  
Morris Ruther, !
  Glen street,  
R. W. Sanderson, :
  High street,  
C. ‘M. Sheldon,  |
Bridge street,   
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street,   
Martin Smith, |
  Pleasant street,  —( 
| ,

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
ET  
| KZ wy cs vu gl EE lus
Name gz/ ei sy Sy de
( PP) BS
av sik ag  
| !
Jacob Solin, |
  Hampden street,   
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue, 
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street, !)  
St. Jerome Ins. School, |
Hampden street, 
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street,  
Thomas E. Sullivan, |
  Pleasant street,  
Elphege St. Jacques,|
  Ely street,   
Clement Terrien, |
  East street,   
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street,  
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street,  
Napoleon Bluteau, |
  Main street,   
Transcript Pub. Co., |
  High street,  
A. R. Vincent, |
 oa Main street,  D. 
Michael Walsh, !
S Pearl street,  
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,   pow
Sarah A. Wolcott, |
  High street,   
John J. Kirkpatrick, |
  Howard street,  
, . 
! So! |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
REPORT FOR MONTH OF JULY,  .
ao] 
R,  vw  gS
 oe! gS Us
Name ge SE Sf)  gg [AY
CP) v
  lz
A. O. H. Society, |
Front street, !)  
O. D. Allyn,
  Locust street,  
O. D. Allyn,
  Sycamore street,   
American Writing, |
  Main street,   
Geo. P. B. Alderman, |
  High street, 
E. L. Alderman,
  High street,  
N. P. Avery, |
  Pine street,   
F. J. Baker,
  High street,  
C. E. Ball, |
  High street,  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  Commercial street,  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  Plymouth place,   
Bibeau Masse. |
  High street,  
Lucy Bork, |
  Dwight street,  
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
Elmwood Pharmacy, 
John H. Bell, !
  Cottage avenue,  
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street, ' 
Robert Clark, |
  Dwight street, 
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street, '  
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street,  !'  
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street, ,  
eo oo,

  KEPORT OF WATER BOARD
TE  
| ic; a) ES
|  e)  vs
om  EE BB
ae se  gs ep Y
  vs  Qo qu ra
| Zi AZ Cz  m
a vadenlanl axl |
Thomas J. Connors,  |
  Maple street,  
Caledonian Club,   High street,   
Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
  Dwight street,  
Margaret Cunningham, !
  High street,   
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,  
Curran Bros., |
  Main street, seen
Dean Dennis, |
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, sl
d  High street,  
Thomas Dillon, |
  Lyman street,  
Patrick J. Dowd, !
  Pine street,  
Florence J. Donoghue, |
  Lyman street,   
Florence J. Donoghue,’ |
  Lyman street,  
Moses Ehrlich, |
  Main street,  
| E. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street,  
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
Watson Ely Estate, |
  Maple street,  
A. Ferguson, .
  Brown avenue, )  
A. Ferguson, |
“Princeton,”   
A. Ferguson, .
“Cambridge,”   
Field Sinclair, —
  Oak street,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  an 
. ;

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  i!I
JZ ao) ES
 vs
sme Go, OOO
| ow és Pi vt eg “EP SF) ge lat
|  S. ££ SR
a |
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road,   
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street,   
Germania Block, |
  Park street,  
T. J. Gibson, |
E. Dwight and Center,   
Victor Langelier, |
  Lyman street,   
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street, .  llo
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street,  
John Heinritz, |
  Main street,   
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hampshire street, 
John Hildreth, |
  Main street,  *
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street, |  d
Holyoke Belting Co., |
Appleton street,   
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,   
Holyoke Water Power, |
Canal and Main,   
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street,   
James Kennedy, |
  Summer street,   
James Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,   
John J. Kirkpatrick, |
  Howard street,    
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street, !)  
L. A. Lapense, |
  Main street,  
| |
*Monitor

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
 rs  ow ed
- wg  BB [Ss
Name an ze  SF Sz! g®  gg je
 ao  
| E:  Cf af
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,  
A. Lavole, |
  Fountain street,  
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street, 
E. L. Lyman, |
 Dwight street, 
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street,   **
Lyman Mills, |
  Lyman street, 
Lyman Mills, |
  to Hampden sroet| 
Lyman Mills, |
Oliver street, 
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street ]  
Rev. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,   
Estate W. L. Martin, |
  High street,  on) 
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street,  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street,   
J. K. McCarthy, :
  High street,  
McLean Bros., |
  High street,   
Hugh McLean, |
  Glen street,   
McLean Bros., |
  High street, )]   
Osia Menard, |
  High street,   d
James Moffatt, |
  Taylor street,  
William Morrison, |
  Maple street,  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,  
| |
**Coffee Grinder.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
a  é
  lB] 
.  
Name s's/ se. s
 ot me et ‘sO
  CZ Sz ae ls  i)   d
|
Val Moquin, |
  Lyman street,   
Val Moquin, |
  Union street, ,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
  Suffolk street,  
George F. O'Connor, |
  High street,  
J. H. O'Connell, |
  Dwight street,  
William O'Connell, |
Beacon avenue,   
John T. O’Donnell, |
  East street, |) 
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, ,
  High street,   
Isabella T. O'Connor, |
Pine and Dwight sts.,  
George A. Plimpton, |
  High gtreet,  dl
C. M. Porter, |
a  Dwight street,   
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club,   
J. N. Prew, !
  Main street,  
Casper Ranger, |
  Appleton street,  
James J. Reardon, |
  High street,  
Charles Rheaume, |
’  Summer street,  
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street, 
Clovis Roberts, |
  Main street,  
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street,    
C. M. Sheldon, |
Bridge street,  
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street,  
Martin Smith, :
  Pleasant street, . 
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
oo LS
  Fv a) ec
  
Name ge)  S:  
| es oeee ee
 Cy ,
ee
| |
Jacob Solin, |
  Hampden street,  
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue,  
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street,  
St. Jerome Ins. School, !
Hampden  street,  '
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street,  
Thomas E. Sullivan, !
  Pleasant street,  AT  
Elphege St. Jacque, |
  Ely street,   
Clement Terrien, |
  East street,   T
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street,   
James L. Tighe, ;
  Hampden street,  
; Napoleon Bluteau, |
  Main street,  
Transcript Pub. Co., |
  High street,   
A. R. Vincent, |.
  Main street,   
Michael Walsh, |
  Pearl street,   
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,   
Sarah Wolcott, !
  High street,   
R. W. Sanderson, |
  High street, |  
Frank Beebe, |
“The Maplewood,”  
| otf |
| |
| po :

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
REPORT FOR MONTH OF AUGUST,  .
&  Uv cy) gS
 RBS gs Sz
Name sz st!) fe St
  Se #* Be gg ££  
| |
A. O. H. Society, |
Front street, /$ 
O. D. Allyn, |
  Locust street,   
O. D. Allyn, |
  Sycamore street,   
American Writing, |
  Main street,  
Geo. P. B. Alderman, |
  High street,  
E. L. Alderman, |
  High street,   
N. P. Avery, |
  Pine street,   
C. E. Ball, |
  High street,  |  
Frank Beebe, |
‘‘Maplewood,’’ ) 
F. J. Baker, |
  High street,  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  Commercial street,  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
Plymouth place,  
Bibeau Masse. |
  High street,   
Lucy Bork, |
  Dwight street,  
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
Elmwood Pharmacy, 
John H. Bell, |
Cottage avenue,   
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street, . 
Robert Clark, |
  Dwight street, OL:  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,   
Dr. Cloutier, |
  ‘Main street,   
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street,   
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
a
v :
  pe. gt E
Name gz! ze Sy SY i
 Sh vy nh be a
 UZ, “ay ££ |
oe “gif ag 
|
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street,  
Thomas F. Connor, !
  Maple street,  '.  
Caledonian Club, |
  High street,  
Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
  Dwight street, : 
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street,  
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,  
Curran Bros., |
  Main street,   
Dean Dennis, |
  High street.   
Thomas Dillon, |
  High street,  oF
Thomas Dillon, |
  Lyman street,  
Patrick J. Dowd, |
  Pine street,  
Florence J. Donoghue, |
  Lyman street. .  
Florence J. Donoghue, |
  Lyman street,  
Moses Ehrlich, |
  Main street,   
E. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street,  
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
A. Ferguson, |
  Brown avenue,   
A. Ferguson, |
“Princeton,”  
A. Ferguson, |
“Cambridge,”   
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  hen  
ee |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
  eo OEE   nO eC
Z ae
  Zs oar ve
Name ey 
“ GE ve, ge Be igs
 Lo
|
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street, . 
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road,  
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street,  
Germania Block, ,
  Park street,   
T. J. Gibson, |
Center street, 
Victor Langelier, :
  Lyman street,  '  
Patrick Hafey Estate, te |
  High street, 
John T. Hartnett, '
  High street, 
John Heinritz, |
  Main street,   
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hampshire street,    
John Hildreth, |
  Main gtreet, ), *
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street, 
Holvoke Belting Co., :
Appleton street, 
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,  TOL  
Holyoke Water Power, |
Canal and Main streets  
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street,  
James Kennedy, |
  Sumuner street, 
James Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,  
John J. Kirkpatrick, |
  Howard street, 
IL. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,  
| |
*Monitor.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
a
‘ EO
  Ok YE
, ce .
Name SE  SU SP a
££ og #* Be eg FY
  fs os as
| |
L. A. Lapense, |
  Main street,  
Ed. Lapoint, |
o+  Summer street,  
A. Lavoie, |
  Fountain street,  
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street,   
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street,  
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street,  **
Lyman Mills, ,; |
Lyman street,  
Lyman Mills, .
Hampden street,  
Lyman Mills, |
Oliver street,   
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street,  
Rev. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,  
Estate W. L. Martin, |
lo+ High street, 
McAuslan Wakelin, !
 High street,  
MeAuslan Wakelin, !
  Maple street,  
J. K. McCarthy, |
olo High street,   
McLean Bros., |
  High street,   
Hugh McLean, |
  Glen street,  
McLean Bros., |
oS+ High street 
Osia Menard, :
 High street,  
James Moffatt, |
o@ Taylor street,  
William Morrison, |
  Maple street,  
{ !
| i
**Coffee Grinder.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
|   
ae eu
  
Name /& gz! g$) SE za
eeee
eS  :
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,    
Val Moquin, |
  Lyman street,   
Val Moquin, |
  Union street, 
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
  Suffolk street,  
George F. O’Connor,  High street, 
J. H. O'Connell, !
 Dwight street,  
William O'Connell, |
Beacon avenue,   
John T. O'Donnell, |
  East street,   
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, |
  High street,  
Isabella T. O'Connor, |
Pine and Dwight sts.,  
George A. Plimpton, |
  High street, u:  
C. M. Porter, .
  Dwight street,  
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club,  
J. N. Prew, |
  Main street,  
Casper Ranger, |
  Appleton street,    
James J. Reardon, |
  High street,  
Charles Rheaume, |
  Summer street,   
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street,   
Clovis Roberts, |
  Main street,  oA
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street,   
R. W. Sanderson, |
  High street,  
C. M. Sheldon, |
Bridge street, 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
|  in  
Name &s|  fs  oe g™  IF  vu  )
  Si Ms Os ke
|
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street,   
Martin Smith, |
  Pleasant street,   
Jacob Solin, |
  Hampden street,   
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue,  
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street,   |
St. Jerome Ins. School, !
Hampden street,  ,
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street,   
Thomas E. Sullivan, |
  Pleasant street,  .d  
Elphege St. Jacques, |
  Ely street,   
Clement Terrien, |
  East street,   
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street, 
James L. Tighe, !
  Hampden street,  od
Napoleon Bluteau, !
  Main street,   
Transcript Pub. Co., |
  High street, :  
A. R. Vincent, |
  Main street,  
Michael Walsh, |
 Pearl street,  OL!  
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,  
Sarah Wolcott, |
  High street,   
rr es ne
$ 
, |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  !
REPORT FOR MONTH OF SEPTEMBER,  .
n a
| ay ae
  ge)  (U 
Name gs SZ  st  s
  or we ge los
a: es
A.  H. Society, !
Front street, ,)$ 
O. D. Allyn, |
  Locust street,  
American Writing, |
  Main street,   
Geo. P. B. Alderman, |
  High street, |;  
E. L. Alderman, |
  High street,   
N. P. Avery, |
c peine street, aad ad  :
. E. Ball, |
  High street,    
Frank Beebe, |
“The Maplewood,”  
F. J. Baker, |
  High street, 
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  Commercial street,   
P. Beaucamp Son, |
+’ Plymouth place    
Bibeau Masse. |
  High street,   
Lucy Bork, |
  Dwight street,  
Mrs. J. Bover, |
Elmwood Pharmacy,   
John H. Bell, :
  Cottage avenue, 
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street,   
Robert Clark, |
  Dwight street, OT!  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street, ( 
Dr. Cloutier, |
: Main street, JO!  O
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street,   
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street,   |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
can  
Dp    ££ Se Ux "
: Name sei sg
  Ss}  So sg AY
  ce) be  S
Oo S!n “SS  £joS am
Thomas F. Connor, |
  ‘Maple street,   
Caledonian Club, |
  High street, ie one  
Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
  Dwight street, 
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street,  sg  
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,  
Curran Bros., |
  Main street,   
Dean Dennis. |
  High street,  AT  
Thomas Dillon, |
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, |
  Lyman street,   
Patrick J. Dowd, }
  Pine street,   
Florence J. Donoghue, !
  Lyman street,  
Florence J. Donoghue, ;
  Lyman street, {!  
Moses Ehrlich, |
, Main street, )  
E. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street, !  
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,  
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
A. Ferguson, :
  Brown avenue,   
A. Ferguson, |
“Princeton,” :  
- A. Ferguson, |
“Cambridge,” ]  
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street,  Maal  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,   
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
no) 
| zc  ae

 ls  ics
N  eS my ay
Name ne De  ae ge lee
  ts of |aem
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road, ,  
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street, ,  
Germania Block, |
  Park street,  
T. J. Gibson, |
Center street,   d
Victor Langelier, |
  Lyman street, 
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street, .
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street, ! 
John Heinritz, |
  Main street,    
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hamipshire street,  
John Hildreth, |
 Main street,   *
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street,  
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,   
Holyoke Belting Co., |
Appleton street,   
Holyoke Water Power, |
Main stret,   
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street, )  
James Kennedy, |
  Summer street,   
James Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,  
John J. Kirkpatrick, .
  Howard street,    
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,    
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,  
L. A. Lapense, |
  Main street,   
pot |
* Monitor.
e

  RPPORT OF WATER BOARD
|
  m
gf) be ge
eS
  .
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,   
A. Lavoie, |
  Fountain street, 
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street,  
E. L. Lyman, |
Dwight street,  
E. L. Lyman, |
Dwight street,   **
Lyman Mills, |
  Lyman street,'  
Lyman Mills, |
lto Hampden street,   
Lyman Mills, |
Oliver street, 
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street,  
Rev. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,  Lad  
Estate W. L. Martin, |
  High street,   
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street,   
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street, ——  
J. K. McCarthy, |
  High street,  :'  
McLean Bros., |
  High street, (| , TT
Hugh McLean. |
  Glen street,   
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  d
Osia Menard, |
  High gtreet, 
James Moffatt, !
»  Taylor street,   
William Morrison, |
  Maple street,  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,   
, |
**Coffee Grinder.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
(op og
S| s| se! eg  
:  as Ee Em
Name Rs Sv isa
iee
|  gif  ag (eZ
Val Moquin, |
  Lyman street,   
Val Moquin, |
  Union street,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
  Suffolk street,   
George F. O’Connor, |
  High street,  
J. H. O'Connell, |
  Dwight street, 
William O’Connell, |
‘Beacon avenue .  
John T. O’Donnell, |
  East street, ,  
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, |
  High street, 
Isabella T. O'Connor, |
Pine and Dwight sts.,  
George A. Plimpton, |
  High street, ,  
C. M. Porter, !
  Dwight street,  
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club, ,  
J. N. Prew, |
  Main street,  
Casper Ranger, |
  Appleton street, 
James J. Reardon, |
  High street,   
James J. Reardon, |
  High st., months'  \***
Charles Rheaume, |
  Summer street,   
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street,  
Clovis Roberts, |
  Main street,   
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street,  |  
R. W. Sanderson, |
  High street,   
| |
*** Motor.

  REPORt OF WATER BOARD
Z| Le
H id
Name go) oz Se  s
: ge gE gb ae
  Sim os  a
C. M. Sheldon,
Bridge street barn,  
A. F. Sickman,
  Lincoln street,   
Martin Smith, |
  Pleasant street,  
Jacob Solin, |
; Hampden street,  
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue,   
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street, '
St. Jerome Ins. School, |
Hampden street, . 
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street,  
Thomas E. Sullivan, !
  Pleasant street,  !) 
Elphege St. Jacques, |
  Ely street,  
Clement Terrien, |
  East street,   
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street, 
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street, ‘+  a
Napoleon Bluteau, |
  Main street,  |  
Transcript Pub. Co., |
  High street,   
A. R. Vincent, |
  ‘Main street,  
Michael Walsh, |
  Pearl street, 
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,   
Sarah Wolcott, |
  High street,   
O. D. Allyn, |
  Sycamore street,   
Sree ss
| !
! P| tse  !
| |

KEPORT OF WATER BOARD  
REPORT FOR MONTH OF OCTOBER,  .
|   [és
. in cm Tz “
g  s] g™ Bs eg  Me Gy  vu
O a)  Ce lah
A. O. H. Society, |
Front street,  '$ /$ 
O. D. Allyn,
  Locust street, 
O. D. Allyn, |
  Sycamore street,  
American Writing,
  Main street, |  
Geo. P. B. Alderman,
  High street,  
E. L. Alderman, |
  High street, 
N. P. Avery, |
  Pine street,  
C. E. Ball, |
  High street, ,  
Frank Beebe, |
The Maplewood,  
F. J. Baker, |
  High street,  
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  Commercial street,   
P. Beaucamp Son, |
  Plymouth place, 
Bibeau ‘Masse. |
  High street,   
Lucy Bork, |
. Dwight street,   
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
Elmwood Pharmacy,  
John H. Bell, !
  Cottage avenue,   
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street, sod  
Robert Clark, |
  Dwight street,  
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,   
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,  |]  
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street,   
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
—— --  vu em
:  we Us
; So iY
 o)  gz ez S$
ao
| |
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street,  
Thomas F. Connor, !
  Maple street, ,  
Caledonian Club, |
  High street,   
Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
  Dwight street,  
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street, aad  
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,   
Curran Bros., |
  Main street,   
Dean Dennis. |
  High street.  
Thomas Dillon, !
  High street,  
Thomas Dillon, |
  Lyman street,   
Patrick J. Dowd, |
  Pine street,   
S. M. Marks, |
  Lyman street,  
S. M. Marks, |
  Lyman street, 
Moses Ehrlich, |
  Main street, 
BE. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street,   
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
A. Ferguson, |
  Brown avenue,  
A. Ferguson, |
“Princeton,” 
A. Ferguson, |
“Cambridge,”   d
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street,   
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,    
' '

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
EB) i. E
 oss  
Name zg me 
ty rey Es 
» oe Ee aS AU
  ge (Ae
a  
!
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road,   
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street, |  
Germania Block, |
  Park street,  
T. J. Gibson, .
Center street,   
Victor Langelier, |
  Lyman street,  
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street, )  
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street,   
John Heinritz, |
  Main street,  
Hennick Setbel, |
  Hampshire street,   
John Hildreth, |
  Main street,  *
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street,   
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,    
Holyoke Water Power, |
Main street,   
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street,   
James Kennedy, !
  Summer street,  
James M. Kennedy,
  Lyman street, '  
John J. Kirkpatrick, !
  Howard street,  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,  l
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,  
L.A. Lapense, )
  Main street,  
| |
*Monitor.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
  Uv a)  ao
Name eg Se Sz  
g  sh |ae
| b-] 
ee
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,  
A. Lavoie, “i |
  Fountain street,   
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street,   
Ek. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street,   
E. L. Lyman, |
  Dwight street, *#
Lyman Mills, |
Lyman street,    
Lyman Mills, |
Hampden street,   
Lyman Mills, |
Oliver street,   
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street,   
Rev. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,  
Estate W. L. Martin, |
  High street,. '  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street, 
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street,   
J. K. McCarthy, |
  High street,  
McLean Bros.,
  High street, 
Hugh McLean, |
  Glen street,  
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  
Osia Menard, |
  High street,  
James Moffatt, |
  Taylor street,   
William Morrison, |
  ‘Maple street,  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,  )/  
! i
‘ |
**Coffee Grinder.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  !
  », VJ  ew re)
 si BB os
Name gz)  sz 
rs) Oo fh wh ct ae)
, SE,/ be  os
  an” CZ m
| |
Val Moquin, !
  Lyman street, sae  
Val Moquin, |
  Union street,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
  Suffolk street,  
George F. O’Connor, |
  High street,  
J. H. O’Connell, |
  Dwight street,   
William O’Connell, |
Beacon avenue,   
John T. O'Donnell, :
  East street,  
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, |
  High street,   
Isabella T. O’Connor, |
Dwight and Pine sts.,   
George A. Plimpton, .
  High street,   
C. M. Porter, |
  Dwight street, !) 
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club,  
J. N. Prew, |
  Main street   l
Casper Ranger, |
  Appleton street,  
James J. Reardon, |
  High street,   
Charles Rheaume, |
  Summer street,   
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street,   
Clovis Roberts, |
  ‘Main street,   
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street,   
R. W. Sanderson, |
  High street,   
C. M. Sheldon, |
Bridge street barn,  
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street,  nae  
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
J wy Ec
 ls  be Sz
Name gv  Se  
g $*  AO

  gi  
Martin Smith, |
  Pleasant street,  
Jacob Solin, |
  Hanypden street,   
Henry Southier, !
Olive avenue, AT 
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street,   
St. Jerome Ins. School, |
Hampden street,  ,
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street,   
Thomas E. Sullivan, |
  Pleasant street, .dd] 
Elphege St. Jacques, |
  Ely street,   
Clement Terrien, |
$  East street,  
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street, 
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street,  
Napoleon Bluteau, |
  Main street, 
Transcript Pub. Co., |
  High street, 
A. R. Vincent, |
  Main street,  
Michael Walsh, |
  Pearl street, |  
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,   
Sarah Wolcott, |
  High street,   
' |
| !
| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
REPORT FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER,  .
  Eg
| ve
  Name a
, GE Ae
be ou .
a a
i)
A. O. H. Society, |
Front street,  d
O. D. Allyn, |
  Locust street,  
O. D. Allyn, !
  Sycamore street,   
American Writing, |
  Main street,  (/.  d,  
Geo. P. B. Alderman, |
  High street, 
E. L. Alderman, |
  High street,  
N. P. Avery, |
  Pine street,    
C. E. Ball, |
  High street,   
Frank Beebe, |
The Maplewood,  
F. J. Baker, |
  High street,   
P. Beaucamp Son, |
Commercial street, my!
P. Beaucamp Son, ;
  Plymouth place,  
Bibeau Masse. !
  High street, )  
Iucy Bork, |
  Dwight street, |;   
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
Elmwood Pharmacy,   
John H. Bell, :
  Cottage avenue,  
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street, ——- 
Robert Clark, |
  Dwight street, 
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street 
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,   
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street,  
| '
: |

|
  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Nameee
q ge ga os we  
B Of) gz  ss .
hes Be a)
L. J. Comstock, |
  Hampden street,  
Thomas F. Connor, |
  Maple street,  
Caledonian Club, |
  High street, ' 
Mrs. Abbie Cray,
  Dwight street,  
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street, )  
M. D. Curley, |
  High street,  
Curran Bros., |
  Main street,  
Dean Dennis, |
  High street, 
Thomas Dillon, |
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, |
  Lyman street,  
Patrick J. Dowd,
  Pine street,  
S. M. Marks,
  Lyman street,  
S. M. Marks, |
  Lyman street, ,. 
E. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street, ,  
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,   
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street, 
Moses Ebrlich, |
  Main street,   
A. Ferguson, |
  Brown avenue,  La  
A. Ferguson, |
‘‘Princeton,”’   
A. Ferguson, |
‘‘Cambridge,’’   
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street, iy  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
| E; vu  o) cs
 bs CES OOg
.  Cy co iS
me Fe BOS
rs) on te nh wh QU
| ce ge ge Ss

| |
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,   
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road,  
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street,  
Germania Block, |
  Park street,  
T. J. Gibson, |
Center street, 
Victor Langelier, |
  Lyman street, 
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street,   
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street,   
John Heinritz, |
  Main street,  haa  
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hampshire street, ]  
A. N. Potvin, |
  Main street, *
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street,  
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street, |  
Holyoke Water Power, |
Main street,    
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street, )  
James Kennedy, |" |
  Summer street,  
James M. Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,  
John J. Kirkpatrick, |
  Howard street,   d
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,    
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,   
L. A. Lapense, |
  Main street, asi  
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,  
| |
* Monitor.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD 
a a
| r) a) ec
 SB, Ss  Uc
Name yo) RS By  Ex
* gt! es DE SE oes
  So g® es AY
y: CZ, ge \ss
oo Ld Se ee
A. Lavoie,  |
: Fountain street,  
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street,  
E. L. Lyman, |
Dwight street,   
E. L. Lyman, |
Dwight street,  +*
Lyman Mills, |
  Lyman street, 
Lyman Mills, |
  to Hampden st.,  
Lyman Mills, |
Oliver street,    
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street, :.  
Rey. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,  d
Estate W. L. Martin, |
  High street,  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street,  
McaAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street,   
J. K. MeCarthy, ;
  High street,  
McLean Broas., |
  High street,  
McLean Bros., .
  High street, 
Hugh McLean, |
S Glen street, TT LTA  
Osia Menard, |
  High street,  
James Moffatt. ;
  Taylor street, ' 
William) Morrison, |
  Maple street, §.  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,   
Val Moquin,
  Lyman street,  
**Coffee Grinder.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD oe, &
,  os  Zs Og
Name wo Sy my Hag Fag  a
“ Be: ES] Ue me ES
B UL! [gs
  BIR oe Oe ee
Val Moquin, |
  Union street,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
  Suffolk street,   
George F. O'Connor, |
  High stret,   
J. H. O'Connell, |
  Dwight street,  ue  
William O'Connell, |
Beacon avenue,    .
John T. O'Donnell, |
  East street,   
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, |
  High street,  :
Isabella T. O'Connor, :
Pine and Dwight sts.,   
George A. Plimpton, |
  High street,   
C. M. Porter, yo |
  Dwight street,   
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club,   
J. N. Prew, |
  Main street,  
Casper Ranger, |
  Appleton street,  
James J. Reardon, '
  High street,  
Charles Rheaume, |
  Summer street,  
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street,  
Clovis Roberts, !
  Main street, !  
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street,  
R.W. Sanderson, !
  High gtreet, |  
C. M. Sheldon, |
Bridge street,  
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street,   
Martin Smith, |
  Pleasant street,  AT TAT  
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
) Rs zc LY a
  vs
. Name Bs  Sz Sz  
$ Gz  ge ge  
, )
.  at es ee
| |
Jacob Solin, |
  Hampden street, sood  
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue,   
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street,  .o  |
St. Jerome Ins. School, !
Hampden street,   
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street,  
Thomas E. Sullivan, |
  Pleasant street, 
Elphege St. Jacques, |
  Ely street, 
Clement Terrien,
S  East street, 
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street,  OT 
James L. Tighe, ae |
  Hampden street,   
Napoleon Bluteau, |
  Main street, 
Transcript Pub. Co., |
High street,   
A. R. Vincent, !
  Main street,   
Michael Walsh, |
  Pearl street,  
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,  
Sarah Wolcott, :
  High street,   
E. Benard Son, f
| |
:  
| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
REPORT FOR MONTH OF DECEMBER,  .
 k
” a)  EC
 :
Name  Se Sy 
i Ge. BE sg iAY
 As  
A. O. H. Society, |
Front street,   
O. D. Allyn, .
  Locust street,   
O. D. Allyn, |
  Sycamore street,  
American Writing, |
  Main street, 
Geo. P. B. Alderman, |
  High street,   
. L. Alderman, |
  High street,  
N. P. Avery, |
  Pine street, .b  
C. E. Ball, |
  High street,   
Frank Beebe, |
The Maplewood,   
F. J. Baker, "
  High street,  
P. Beaucamp Son, )
  Commercial street, 
P. Beaucamp Son, |
» Plymouth place,   
Bibeau Masse. .
  High street,   
Lucy Bork, .
  Dwight street,   
Mrs. J. Boyer, |
Elmwood Pharmacy, [| ar
John H. Bell, |
  Cottage avenue,  
Thomas J. Carmody, |
  Pine street,  
Robert Clark, :
  Dwight street, 
Dr. Cloutier, |
  Main street,  
Dr. Cloutier, :
  Main street, |}  BR
Coffey Estate, |
  Dwight street, aa  
| |

  REPORT UF WATER BOARD
| by La Lo Es
  \Ss
Name az Se |ee
o Ob fe ne at QU
  gz ae  of  Of im
| |
L. J. Comstock, !
  Hampden street,  
Thomas F. Connor, .
  Maple street,  
Caledonian Club, |
  High street,   
Mrs. Abbie Cray, |
- Dwight street,  
Margaret Cunningham, |
  High street,  
M. D. Curley, |
  High street, 
Curran Bros., |
  Main street, , 
Dean Dennis, |
  High street,  
Thomas Dillon, !
  High street,   
Thomas Dillon, |
 Lyman street, . 
Patrick J. Dowd, ;
  Pine street,  
S. M. Marks, |
  Lyman street,   
§. M. Marks, |
 Lyman street, 
Moses Ehrlich. |
  Main street, "  
E. A. Ellsworth, |
  Essex street,   
Ely Lumber Co., |
  Maple street,  
Ely Lumber Co.,  |
  Maple street,  
A. Ferguson, |
  Brown avenue,   
A. Ferguson, |
“Princeton,”    
A. Ferguson. |
“Cambridge,”   
Field Sinclair, |
  Oak street,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,  
oe an

|
REPORT OF WATER BOARD re
. bg os se Se pe
Name |) Sz 
g  g:  se   
|
J. H. Fitzsimmons, |
  Main street,   
Estate George Geiger, |
Westfield Road, i:   
Margaret Gallivan, |
  High street,   
Germania Block, |
  Park street, 
T. J. Gibson, |
East Dwight street,  
Victor Langelier, |
  Lyman street,  
Patrick Hafey Estate, |
  High street,  
John T. Hartnett, |
  High street,  
John Heinritz, |
  Main street, )  d
Hennick Seibel, |
  Hampshire street,   
A. M. Potvin, )
  Main street,  asl .
G. E. Hobbs, |
  Race street,   
Holyoke Machine Co., |
  Main street,  
Holyoke Water Power, |
‘Main street, |  
Maurice Kaplinski, |
  Bridge street,   
James Kennedy, |
  Summer street,   
James Kennedy, |
  Lyman street,  $. 
John J. Kirkpatrick, |
  Howard street, .ol  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Bowers street,  
L. A. Lafrance, |
  Lyman street,   
L. A. Lapense. {
  Main street,   
aS
*Monitor.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
| ae! us;  Ss
: en 
Name |g  Se  
i. Ss.  go AY
  s! ao Og  
| oO) gS'h  SA e
Ed. Lapoint, |
  Summer street,  
A. Lavoie, |
  Fountain street,   
Joseph Lynn, |
  Walnut street,    
E. L. Lyman, |
Dwight street, -| ,  
E. L. Lyman, |
Dwight street,  **
 Lyman Mills, |
  Lyman street,/ |  
Lyman Mills, |
  to Hampden st. . 
Lyman Mills, |
Oliver street,   
Jens J. Madsen, |
  Lincoln street,  
Rey. Fr. Marchand, |
  Prospect street,   
Estate W. L. Martin, |
  High street,  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
  High street, 
‘McAuslan Wakelin, |
  Maple street,   
J. K. McCarthy, |
  High street,  
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  ,/ 
McLean Bros., |
  High street,  
Hugh McLean, |
  Glen street,   
Osia Menard, |
  High street,   
James Moffatt, |
  Taylor street,  
William Morrison, |
  Maple street,  
H. J. Mondor, |
  Elm street,  
| !
**Coffee Grinder.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
co 
af vw  ES
Pablo ou &

Name Bey Re Be OES OBE Ad |
eea
ee a
Val Moquin, |
  Lyman street, 
Val Moquin, |
  Union street,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. |
  Suffolk street,   
George F. O'Connor, |
  High street, 
J. H. O'Connell, |
  Dwight street,  
William O'Connell, |
Beacon avenue, 
John T. O'Donnell, |
  East street,   
Wm. and Thos. Orrell, |
  High street,   
Isabella T. O'Connor, !
Pine street,    
George A. Plimpton, .
  High street,   
C. M. Porter, |
  Dwight street,  |  
C. B. Prescott, |
Holyoke Club,  
J. N. Prew, |
  Main street, 
Casper Ranger, |
  Appleton street,  
James J. Reardon, ,
: High street,    
Charles Rheaume, |
  Summer street,    
Louis Ricklas, |
  High street,   
Clovis Roberts, |
  Main street,  
Morris Ruther, |
  Glen street, 
R. W. Sanderson, |
  High street,   
C. M. Sheldon, |
Bridge street, )  
A. F. Sickman, |
  Lincoln street, ,  
| |

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
z) yg le
|  |ee
Mg fee 
Name eziSy Sz ls
g |e) s* eg |&
|  nh a
| |
Martin Smith, |
  Pleasant street, ol  
Jacob Solin, |
  Hampden street,  
Henry Southier, |
Olive avenue, |  
St. Jerome Tem. Society, |
Maple street,   )
St. Jerome Ins. School, |
Hampden street,    )
J. F. Sullivan, |
  Dwight street, 
Thomas E. Sullivan, |
  Pleasant street,  ;  
Elphege St. Jacques, |
  Ely street,  
- Clement Terrien, |
  East street,   
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street, 
James L. Tighe, |
  Hampden street,   
Napoleon Bluteau, |
  Main street.   
Transcript Pub. Co., |
  High street, .  
A. R. Vincent, |
  Main street,    
Michael Walsh, |
  Pearl street,    
J. B. Williams, |
  Walnut street,  
Sarah A. Wolcott, oe )
  High street,   
ee
| |
| !
si‘; ee
The returns for the nine months show net loss to the Department of  under the present metered rates, showing
that the metered svstem instead of costing the property owners
more would, on the Whole, be saving to them, provided the
‘water was sold at cents per gallons, the price now
charged for manufacturing and elevator purposes, et.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
BENEFIT TO METERED WATER USERS BY
ADOPTION OF FLAT RATE.

That metered water users have benefited by the adoption of flat rate for metered water is shown by the following table, which gives the consumption and net cost of metered water to consumers for  the last year under the
sliding seale of three rates, namely cents, cents and
» eents per gallons, less per cent discount, and the
consumption and net cost to the same consumers for the
twelve months ending November under the flat rate
of cents per gallons, less per cent discount for
prompt payment.

Table showing gallons of water used by metered water takers
in under the old rates, namely,  c,  and  per thousand gallons, and gallons used by same takers in under the
new rate, namely,  per thousand gallons, same to all users:

Net Net Gain to
Con- Cost at Cost at Consumer,
sumption Three Ooe Loss to
Year in Gals. Rates Rate Dept.
Livermore Martin , 
D. Mackintosh Sons  . 
Valley Paper Co.  , 
Brown Sellers  . 
Essex Pad Paper Co.  , 
F. G. Burnham    
Boston Maine R. R.  , 
Holyoke Street R. R.  , 
Chase Cooledge    

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Net Net Gain to
Con. Cost at Cost at Consumer,
sum ‘tion Three One Loss to
Year in Gals. Rates Rate Dept.
Jobn P. Squire Co.  , 
Swift Brothers    
Nelson, Morris Co.  . 
Whiting Street Estate  , 
Springfield Provision Co. . 
Prentiss, Brooks Co.  . 
Lemuel Sears Co.  ', 
Judd Paper Co.  . 
Armour Co.  . 
Chas. P. Lyman  . 
Priest Thayer , 
Geo. W. Prentiss Co. . 
M. H. Whitcomb  , 
Geo. I. Fitch  . 
M. J. Laporte a
 
M. Callahan Co.  . 
Merrick Lumber Co. ;
 . 
American Pad Pa. Co. .
 . 
Int'n'l] Steam Pump Co.  , 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Net Net Gain to
Con. Cost at Cost at Consumer.
sumption Three One Loss to
Year ip Gals. Rates Rate Dept.
Casper Ranger   . 
Holyoke Bar Co. .
 . 
Ford Auger Bit Co. |
 . 
Parsons Paper Co.  ,  (* )
Holyoke Motor F’d'y Co.  . 
Smith Martin  .  
Henry Monat  . 
August Lehmann  . 
Holyoke Machine Co.  , 
Holyoke Warp Co.  
Beebe-Webber Co.    
U. S. Envelope Co.  . 
Holyoke Plush Co.  . 
Germania Mills  , 
Chemical Paper Co.   .
 
Newton Paper Co.    
Franklin Paper Co.  , 
Nat. Blank Book Co.  
: . 
White Wyckoff Co.   
|

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Net Net Gain to
Con- Cost at Costat Consumer,
sumption Three One Loss to
Year in Gals. Rates Rate Dept.
Hampden Glazed Pa. Co.  . 
Whitmore Mfg. Co.    
David McCormick  . 
Ely Lumber Co.  . 
Judson Williams  . 
Holyoke Steam E. Wks. .
 . 
B. F. Perkins Son  , 
Smith Tablet Co.  , 
C. B. J. A. Davis  . 
Holyoke P. Library Assn.  . 
Richard Dietz  . 
Empire Theater  . 
Hotel Bliss  , 
Hotel Lafrance  ,  (# )
, McLean Brothers  , 
H. M. Senior  , 
Besse-Mills Co.  . 
John Tilley Co.  . 
A. Steiger Co.   |
 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Net Net Gain to
Con- Cost at Cost at Consumer,
sumption Three One to
Year in Gals. Rates Rate Dept.
G. E. Russell Co.  . 
C. E. Ball Bldg.   
Estate John Delaney  , 
. John Dillon, Heirs  . 
Frank Octo Co.  ('   
A. F. Gingras  . 
Estate Leon Laporte  vu . 
F. P. Donoghue  . 
C. F. Church Mfg. Co.  . 
Conn. Valley Lum. Co.    
A. Ferguson , 
C. S. Davis  . 
M. C. Browne  ,    
* Gain to Department, loss to consumer... ee.  
‘ .
The consumption in  as shown by table, was gallons and the net cost to the consumers, ,
while the consumption in was gallons and
the net cost to consumers saving to the consumers of and at the same time giving them the use
of gallons more water. .
If the same quantity of water that was used in had
been used in  under the three rates, the net cost to the
consumers would have been  more.

  REPORT OF WATER BUARD
REDUCTION IN CONSUMPTION.

There has been marked reduction in the consumption
for the past vear as result of the system of careful inspection inaugurated by the Commissioners, the total eonsumption for the year being gallons, as against
  gallons for the preceding vear, decrease of
  gallons.

The wisdom of increasing and making more efficient
our Inspection Department has been nowhere demonstrated
more fully than by the condition of our local reservoirs
from which the overflow or waste during the year amounted
to gallons or quantity sufficient for an added
population of using gallons per day each. In
other words our available water supply during the year was
sufficient for population of on gallon per cap: ita basis.

This excellent condition can only be attributed to the
vigilant inspection which we have maugurated and not. to
a favorable vear, as the rainfall on the Whiting Street shed
was but shehtly above the average, while that on the Ashley
shed was nearly two inches below the average.

When it is considered that from two to two and onehalf millions of gallons of extravagant waste has been cut
off per day. it  easily seen why there was this large overflow from our reservoirs.

The run off from the Fomer water shed where the rainfall was exactly the average, was gallons or a
quantity sufficient in itself to supply population of  
using gallons per day per capita.

Summing up, the total vield or run off from all our
water sheds as actually measured during the year was im
round numbers gallons, or quantity, if all
available, sufficient to supply city having population of
 using gallons per capita.

For the overflow of Ashley and Whiting Street ReserVoirs, together with the rainfall on the sheds we refer you
to the following table:

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  !
TABLE SHOWING OVERFLOW AT ASHLEY PONDS
AND WHITING STREET RESERVOIRS
DURING THE YEAR  .
ee  ee
Ashley Pond Whiting Street
MONTH ee
. Overflow in Overflow in
Rainfall Gallons Rainfall Gallons

January oo... ue coed sess euseesec s
February  ...   teeter oi c s
March ................. ....  be 
ADTil 
Maysccecce  |!  
June servateneentenscsecennesee|  
August. .. ee.  cec  cesses er  te
September ........... .... BBQ feces ! |oc cec s
October... ee. ccec  s   ees ctsee en s
November ........ vesseey  
December.......... ......  TO ——
Total .........!  

|  
Total from both reservoirs   

Total run-off from former watershed in  gallons.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
WATER DEPARTMENT CENSUS.

A census of the city was taken by the water inspectors
and the total population was found by them to be  .
the population supplied with city water being  .

After receiving the report of the inspectors, it was decided to adopt as the basis to be used in computing
the per capita consumption, instead of  the estimated
population, the change taking effect from June  th |

RECEIPTS FROM WATER RENTS.

The receipts from water rents were an increase of  over those of the year previous.

The total receipts from all sources were .
being  in excess of the receipts for  ,

TAX ON CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.

This Department paid the city being the tax
on its construction account for  and received from the
city for water and rental of hydrants net gain
to the city proper of .

Commencing with the Department has paid the
eity each vear tax on its construction account, at the same
rate per  as is levied on the property of other tax
payers, the total amount paid by the Department during

| the past six vears aggregating and has received
from the city. for the same period, for water rents and
rental of hydrants, leaving the net amount paid
to the city by this Department or an average of
over for each vear.

 SINKING FUNDS.

The Sinking Funds for the payment of water bonds
have been increased by the transfer of  from the water
rents account, and by earnings amounting to .
making the total increase for the vear .

The total of the funds on December  st was .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

The Board desires to express its appreciation of the
faithful services of Superintendent John D. Hardy, whose

- term of office expired on April  th.
Mr. Hardy came to the Department on May Ist,  ,
' and during his twenty-six vears of service as superintendent had large share in the growth and development of the
water system.
) There has been an abundance of water during the past
vear, and it has been of good quality.
' The cast iron mains were extended feet. For location, size and length of extensions see Table A.

The length of cast iron mains is miles; and of tem- ,
porary wrought iron, miles. For location, size and
length of mains see Tables and C.

Thirty-two gates were set in new locations. The total
number to date is  For location and size see Tables D
and E.

Twelve hydrants were set in new locations, and were
replaced. The total number of public fire hydrants is  .
For location, ete., see Tables and G. Following Table G
Is summary of fire service in the various mills in the city,
which is additional to the above.

Twenty-seven meters were set in new locations, and  
discontinued, making the total now in use  For make,
size and location see Table H.

Seventy-one service pipe connections were added during
the vear and discontinued, making the total number in
use to date  .

Twenty-three leaks in service pipes and in main pipes
have been repaired.

The average depth of water. in the gatehouse at Wright
pond for the vear was feet, inches.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
Cost reported December ..........  
Increase during the year:
Main pipe extensions.......... 
IIydrants ............... 
MeterS  .......      
William J. Murray, land.......  
Holyoke Seheutzen Bund, land..  
———--—  
$  
Depreciation, two per cent.............  
| 
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND DECEMBER .
(Bonds due in  and  .)
Amount reported Dec. .... 
Increase during the year:
Interest on bank deposits..........  
Interest on bonds ................  
Interest on loans on real estate....  
——  
Transfer from Water Rents account  
$ 
INVESTMENT.
| Loans on real estate............ 
Thirty-four City of Holyoke Gas
and Electrie Light Bonds ......  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank.... 
Cash in Home National Bank.......  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank  
Cash in Park National Bank.......  
Cash in City National Bank........  
———— s-  
| 
Examined and approved.
WALTER W. EATON,
January Public Accountant.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE
SEVERAL BOND ISSUES.
, Bonds due in  |
Loans on real estate ...............  
“Cash in Holvoke National Bank..............  
$ 
Bonds due in  :
Loans on real estate............... 
Twenty-three City of Holvoke
Gas and Electric Light Bonds.  
Cash in Home National Bank......  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank  Cash in Park National Bank......  
wena ———-.  
$ 
Bonds due in  ;
Loans on real estate .......  eeee) 
Eleven City of Holvoke Gas and Electrie
hight Bonds ..........  ... ce  ee)  
Cash in City National Bank. ................  
$ 
All of which is respectfully submitted. .
, HUGH McLEAN,
M. J. DOYLE,
| T. J. CARMODY,
Water Commissioners.
Holvoke, December .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR  AS REGISTERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.
Consump'ion Daily Average
in Gallons. Per Capite.
January,  
February,  
March  ]
April  
May,  
June  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
December,  
Total eonsumption
for year  
Largest week, February to gallons:
or gallons per day. per capita.
Smallest week, Mareh to April  gallons:
or SS gallons per day, per capita.
Largest day, January  gallons; or gallons per capita.
Smallest day, September gallons; or  s
gallons per capita.
Daily average from January to June  at popUation, gallons per capita.
Daily average from June to December  at 
population, gallons per capita.
Daily average for vear, gallons per capita.
*Water Department census.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY POND.

January oth, ft.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th,
  ft. in.

February  d, ft. in.;  th. ft. in.;  th, ft.
 in.;  d, ft. in.

March  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.
  in.;  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.

April  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.  
in.;  th, ft. in.

May  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.

June Ist, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.  
in.;  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.

July  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th-  ft. in.;
 th, ft. in.

August  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. 
-in.;  th, ft. in.;  st. ft. in.
Water drawn down to make connection for High Service Extension:

September  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  st, ft.  
in.;  th, ft.

October Sth, ft.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;
 th ft. in.

November  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  th, ft.
  in.;  d, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.

December  th, ft. in.;  th, ft. in.;  st, ft.
  in.;  th, ft. in.
Average height for the year, ft. in.
Height of overflow, ft. in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE
WATER WORKS, DECEMBER .

Population by Water Department census of .

Date of construction,  .

Works owned by the city.

Souree of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage reservoir, three and one-half miles from the city,
two mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the
southwest branch of the Manhan river—intake reservoir
at Southampton.

Mode of supply—eravity.

FINANCIAL.
RECEIPTS. |

A. Water rates, fixed ................ 

B. Water rates, metered .............. 

C. Total receipts from water.............. 

D. Service pipe .......           

E. All other sources .........      

F. Gross receiptS .........cc     

G. Cash balance, January ..........  

$ 
EXPENDITURES.

AA. Management and repairs ............. 

BB. Serviees and repairs .............. 

CC. Running expenses for  ............ 

DD. Interest on bonds ................  

EE. Total maintenance ................... 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
FF. Comnissioners of Sinking Fund, City of
“Holyoke, taxes ........... +.  
GG. Transfers to Sinking Funds ...........  
MH. Materials, labor, ete. ................  
If. Cash on hand and in banks............  
JJ. Balance to construction ..............  
| 
CONSTRUCTION.
Balance  ....  es 
KK. Extension main pipe ...... 
LL. Hydrants ................  
MM. Meters ...............  
NN. Land purchases...........  
—--—-—  
OO. Depreciation, two per cent  
PP. Net cost of works to date..  
QQ. Bonded debt ..............  
W. Value of sinking funds Dee.
  ... .  
CONSUMPTION.
 Population, Water Dept. census.  Population on line of pipe, Water Dept.
CENSUS coc   ec ewce     Population supphed, Water Dept census  
+. Total gallons consumed .............. 
®. Passed through meters joo Fe
 Passed through meters sees  Average daily consumption, gallons....  Gallons per day to each inhabitant....  Gallons per day to each consumer  Gallons per day to service tap........  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and cast
iron and lead lined.
 From one-half inch to thirty )
inches.
 Extended,  feet large.
 Discontinued .............    none
) Mains,  -inech and upwards ........... miles
 Temporary mains, less than inches... miles
 Total length of distribution........... miles
 Number of leaks in eity,  in Fomer
line, NONE Lo... ce   ee    Cost of repairs per mile............... Wiydrants added ................. Hydrants now in use (pubhie).........  
and private hydrants (see Table G)
 Hydrants frozen ................--  ]
 IIvdrants repaired ................ -.  Hydrants replaced .............  Stop gates added .................-.-.  )
 Stop gates now in use (see foot of Table
 Stop gates less than tinch............  )
 Number of blow-off gates.............  Range of pressure on main at office, per
day and night, to pounds. —
Main street. per day and might,  
to pounds.
 Stand pipes added ................ hone
 Stand pipes now im wse.........- .-.- a)
 Gates repaired ............. Giates replaced .....  ...     none

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
SERVICE.
 Cement. rubber lined, enameled, cast
iron, lead lined, tin lined and  galvanized.
 From one-half to  -inch size of service.
 Leaks  ...  ...  ee    Cleaned and repaired ...............  Frozen services thawed out............  Replaced services ..............  Extended wo...  ... cc ene feet
 Diseontinued .........  ...     Total now in use (estimated).......... feet
 Services added .........  ...ee Number now in use .............  Average length of service ............ feet
All sizes Average cost of services in up to  
Inch size Meters added ............ .. .... Meters discontinued .............  Meters repaired ...............  af
 ). Meters now in use ..............  Meters now in use, test...............  Motors for washing machines.........  Indicators on elevators ........ .. ...  Motors and elevators now in use......  Service boxes repaired ............  Water shut off .......... ... ......  Water turned on ..........    Leaks. fancets  water elosets,  Leaks repaired, faucets,  water elosets,  c  Valves sealed in mills ................  Seals broken in mills................. 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO
DECEMBER .
WATER COMMISSIONERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE
WORK—ELECTED BY THE TOWN OF HOLYOKE.
William B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February .
John Delaney, elected Mareh term expired
February .
John E. Chase, elected March resigned March.
 .
Dennis Higgins, elected March term expired
February .
Joel Russell, Treasurer of the Board, elected Mareh  .
 term expired February .
J. P. Buekland, Clerk of the Board, elected March  .
 term expired February .
L. P. Bosworth, suecessor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February .

C. W. Ranlet, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.
ENGINEERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS FOR OONSTRUCTION
OF WORKS.

Messrs. Shedd and Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting |
engineers. .

E. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.

Davis Ellsworth, engineers, sueded E. C. Davis.
May,  .

Moses Stevens, pipe inspector.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
WATER COMMISSIONERS ELECTED BY THE OILY COUNCIL.
J. P. Buckland, elected February term expired
February .
Dennis Higgins, elected February term expired 
January .
James G. Smith, elected February deceased July :
  .
J. A. Sullivan, elected February term expired
January .
James F. Allyn, elected February term expired
January .
C. H. Heywood, elected July term expired
January .
Timothy Merrick, elected January term expired January .
Maurice Lynch, elected January term expired
* January .
James E. Delaney, elected January resignation
accepted January .
Moses Newton, elected January term expired
January .
James J. Curran, elected January resignation
accepted February .
Martin P.’ Conway, elected January term expired January .
Charles D. Colson, elected January term expired February .
John J. Sullivan, elected January term expired February .
Thomas F. Greaney, elected January term expired February .
Joseph A. Skinner, elected January term expired February .
Maurice Lynch, elected January deceased Januaryv .
Arthur M. French, elected February term expired February .
Hugh McLean, elected January .
Michael J. Doyle, elected January .
Thomas J. Carmody, elected January .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
OFFICERS OF THE HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.

Moses Stevens, Superintendent, appointed February  ,
 term expired April resigned.

Daniel Heywood, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October sucded by E. M. Bolton.

E. M. Bolton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned.

E. P. Clark, Registrar; appointed July resigned
January .

J. C. Sullivan, Registrar, appointed January resigned January .

A. E. Pickup, Registrar, appointed February .

John D. Hardy, Superintendent, appointed May ;
term expired April .

John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent, appointed May  ,
 .

E. M. Bolton, Inspector, appointed July Service terminated March .

J. F. Cleary, Inspeetor, appointed March .

T. E. Sullivan, Inspector, appointed March .

Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, appointed October .

Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector, appointed October .

Daniel F. Cray, Inspector, appointed October .

CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —Wilham II. Grover. o—John O'Donnell.
 —H A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Aug. Stursherg. (--J. F. Allyn.
 +—John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. Hl. Heywood.

Ward  —Curtis Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.

Ward  —G. W. Burditt. C. B. Ilarris,  S. F. Stebbins.

Ward  —Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew
Walsh.

 +—W. D. Jliggins. H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt.

Ward  —Maurice Lynch. John O’Connell, J. A. Sullivan.

Ward  —John Delaney, C. Hf. HWevwood, Timothy Merrick.

Ward  —R. M. Fairfield, H. A. Pratt, Reuben Winchester.

Clerk—C. W. Rider. :

City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.

City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

EEE see ;
  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Grover. o—Edw. O’Connor.
 —HI. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Matthew Walsh. i—J. F. Allyn.
 John Hl. Wright. Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
, President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —John Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, G. H. Smith .
Ward  —Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler.
Ward  —S. J. Donahue, Peter McKeon, E. A. Newton .
| Ward  —RB. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick
Ward  —Horace Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—KE. A. Ramsay. ,
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
Messenger—J. H. Clifford.
) —

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, W. B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Ruddy.  —Maurice Lynch.
 —C. B. Harris.  —C. H. Heywood.
 —H. Springborn.  —J. F. Allyn.
+—S. J. Donoghue. Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
COMMON COUNCILMEN, .
President, G. H. Smith.
Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, G. TH. Smith, E. Whitaker.
Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J. S. Webber.
Ward +—C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’Donnell.
Ward  —B. .Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M. Man  ing.
Ward  —A. D. Barker, J. E. Delaney, J. H. Newton.
Ward  —Il. C. Ewing.  T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsay.
City Treasurer—Wilham Whiting.
Messenger—J. HI. Clifford (deceased), J. R. Howes.

  “CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, R. P. CRAFTS.
, ALDERMEN. |
Ward. Ward
 —M. J. Teahan.  +—S. S. Donoghue.
 —G. H. Smith. a—D. H. Donoghue.
 H. Springborn.*  —C. H. Heywood.
A. Stursberg.  —G. P. Ellison.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President. C. D. Colson.
Ward  —John Ford. Richard Patte. C. QO. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. .Goodall, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.
Ward +—C. D. Colson. Michael Lyneh, M. M. Mitivier.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sullivan.
Ward  —E. W. Chapin. E. A. Ramsay, Porter Underwood. 
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
- Clerk—C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Howes.
* Resigned.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, WILLIAM WIIITING.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —T. S. Grover.  —C. D. Colson.
 C. B. Harris.*  —D. E. Sullivan.
G. H. Smith. —William Skinner.
 A. Stursberg.**  —G. P. Ellison.
James Stafford. Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President. F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. E. Syms.
Ward  —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout. James Stafford, E. F. Sullivan.
Ward +—James P. Casey. T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte
Marie.
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, E. O’Connor, Thomas Pendergast. :
Ward  —Henry C. Cady, J. S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—J. BE. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—J. R. Towes.
*Died March **Resigned. ;

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Ruddy. o—D. E. Sullivan.
 -—F. R. Norton.  William Skinner.
 —Henry Winkler.  —William  Perkins.
 +—-Charles D. Colson. Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John O’Donnell.
Ward  —G. C. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D. Walsh.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin P.
| Goodall.

Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.

Ward  —Victor Guyott, Peter MeKeon, T. J. Ryan.

Ward  —Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O’Donnell.

Ward  —II. C. Cady, J..S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.

Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden
W. Prentiss.

, Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—James R. Howes.

CITY OFFICERS  t
, CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM RUDDY.
ALDERMEN. .Ward. Ward.
 —John D. Walsh. o—John O’Donnell.
 —F. R. Norton.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —Henry Winkler.  —William S. Perkins.
 —James P. Casey. Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.

Ward —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger.

Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W.
Maher.

Ward  —John J. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John MeDonald.

Ward  —Pierre Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy
J. Rvan.

Ward —Michael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy
Haley.

Ward  —Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A.
Whiting.

Ward (—Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John
B. Munn.

Clerk—Simon Brooks.

City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.

City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.

Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor. F. P. GOODALL.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —Casper Ranger. o—D. J. Landers.
 —Fred Morrison.  —E. A. Whiting.
 —P. J. Sheridan. (—R. Winchester.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.,
President. Hervey K. Hawes.
Ward  —Michael Collins. James Greeley, Samuel  .
Chapman.
Ward  —Roval C. Dickinson, Siumner T. Miller, Dwight
QO. Judd.
Ward  —Herbert Hicks, Lyman F. Thorpe, Charles R.
Heubler.
Ward  —George Hart. Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E.
Herbert.
Ward  —James S. Lee. John F. Shea, Thomas Penderyast.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H..
Smith.
Ward  —Charles C. Hastings. Lyman B. Moore, John B
Minn,
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, R. P. CRAFTS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —Casper Ranger. d—John O'Donnell.
 —Isaae Tirrell.  —William A. Chase.
 —C. R. Huebler.  —-W. T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
) President, Amos Andrews.
Ward  —William Brennan, James Spillane. William H.
Jess.
Ward  —E. R. Pierce. Joseph Beauchemin, George W.
Richards.
Ward  —J. K. MeCarthy. D. Driscoll, W. E. O’Keefe.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert. P. J. Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, Thomas Pendergast. Michael
O’Keefe.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, II. HT. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L.Hooker ,A. .Ricker.
Clerk—J. F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Ilackett.

EE  
  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, R. P. CRAFTS. 
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —Casper Ranger. d—John O’Donnell.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —John T. Lynch.  —-W. T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —William H. Jess, John M. Sheridan, M. .
Browne.
Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —J. K. MeCarthy. D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal.
Ward +—Dennis E. Herbert. Frank S. Lyneh, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sullivan.
Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman. E. P. Ford.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk—Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —James Greeley.  —E. O’Connor.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  —Elias P. Ford.
 —John T. Lynch.  —C. C. Hastings.
 —John Dillon. Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
OCOMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey.
Ward  —George W. Richards. Didace Sainte-Marie,
Thomas H. Sears.
Ward  —John Loweock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.
Ward  —William Sullivan.* Matthew Doherty, Thomas
 O'Donnell, Amede F. Gingras.
Ward  —Roger P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody, Michael Manning.
Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli L. Brockett, John J.
Reardon.
Ward  —Frank L. Buek, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M.
Gilmore.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
*Died November .

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Reardon. d—R. P. Donoghue.
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Ehi J. Brockett.
 —J. K. McCarthy.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.

Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G. MeCarthy.

Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F.
Doyle.

Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueek. James F. Canavan.

Ward +—Thomas O'Donnell. P. F. Carmody, Matthew
Doherty.

Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas J. Fitzgerald.

Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting. John L.
Burlingame.

Ward  —John K. Judd. S. B. Allyn, S. M. Gilmore.*
George W. Doane.

(‘lerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griftin.

City Treasurer—E. La. Munn.

Messenger— William T. Walsh.

* Resigned.

CITY OFFICERS  
: CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O’CONNOR.
) ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —J. J. Sheridan. o—R. P. Donoghue.
 —Francis J. Curley.  —William E. Svms.
 —James J. Curran.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John K. Judd.

Ward  —James C. Keough, William A. Casey, Jeremiah
G. MeCarthy.

Ward  —James LT. Fitzsimmons. Edward Donohue.
James W. Toole.

Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J.
Westphal.

Ward  —James IT. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning, Matthew Doherty.

Ward  —James F, Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F.
Greaney.

Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, Charles H. Whiting, Charles
L. Neweomb.

Ward  -—John K. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M.
Cain.

, Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Oscar Ely.

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O’CONNOR.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward..:
J—William II. Jess. o—James F. Cleary.
 —James W. Toole.  William: E. Svms.
 $—Hlenry Winkler.  —John [lildreth.
 —John Dillon. Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James C. Keough.
Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholomew J. Lynch.
Ward  —Edward Donohue, Thomas J. Gibson, Nazaire
Beliveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bluemer.
Ward +—Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis  .
Paquette.
Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.
Ward  —Charles L. Newcomb, Henry E. McElwain, J.
Sanford Webber.
Ward  —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Richard C.
Kilduff.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treastrer—Edward L. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
|
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY. ,
ALDERMEN.

Ward. Ward.
 —L. F. Haywood, Jr. dJ—H. E. McElwain.
 —J. W. Toole.  —C. L. Neweomb. |
 —H. Winkler.*  —John Hildreth.

M. Manning. Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
 +—John Dillon.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Michael J. Lavelle.

Ward  —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John
Blasius.

Ward  —Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Beliveau.

Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C.
Kelly.

Ward  —John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis
Herbert.

Ward  —Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D. Perkins.

Ward  —Charles L. Allen, Lueius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.

Ward  —George L. Thorpe, John Longway, Jr., George
V. Osgood.

Clerk—John F. Stapleton.

Citv Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.

Messenger— William T. Walsh.

*Resigned June  .

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —John GC. Sullivan. d—Richard Shea.
 —William Buckley.  —Dennie L. Farr.
 —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
 —Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, J. J. Callanan.
Ward  —John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen.
Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J.
Kennedy.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J.
Tavior.
Ward +—Patrick A. Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene Shea.
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W.
Doran.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, C. L. Allen, James L. Davis.
Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George
V. Osgood.
Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin. ,
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —M. P. Conway. o—A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  —C. D. Colson.
 —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
 —N. J. Baker. Clerk—M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.,
President, Thomas Connor.
Ward  —William Brockway, Joseph A. Peltier, Maurice
J. Sullivan.
Ward  —Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C.
Q’Leary.
Ward  —Herman Heinritz, John J. Taylor, Onesime
Viens.
Ward i—Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  —Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles MeCollister.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Medenme J.
Laporte.
Ward  —Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Frederick
C. Steele.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN.
ALDERMEN. .
Ward. Ward.
 —M. P. Conway. js—J. J. Callanan.
 —T. J. Kennedy.  —J. P. Prescott.
 —Michael Connors. i—F. C. Steele.
 —R. P. Donoghue. Clerk—T. D. O’Brien.
| COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway, John H. Ryan, Maurice J.
Sullivan.
Ward  —John Black, Arthur B. C. Delaunay, Cornelius
O’Leary.
| Ward  —Max C. Burkhardt, Ulric Perreault, Albert C.
Renner.
Ward +—Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  —John E. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel J.
O’Connell.
Ward  —Mederie J. Laporte, Stephen E. Gifford, John
B. Miller.
Ward  —Lawrence IJ. Fortier, Charles MeCollister. HWenrv D. Williams.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
(itv Clerk—T. D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Haney. dS—A. Higginbottom.
 —Antoine Marcotte.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors. (—F. C. Steele.
 +—Patrick W. Shea. Clerk—T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
‘ President, Henry D. Williams.
Ward  —Joseph Hebert, Henry L. Mohan, John H. Ryan. oe
Ward  —John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perreault, Paul Schubach.
Ward +—Frank O. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P.
Sullivan.
Ward  —William L. Bishop, Patrick H. Brennan, Wilham B. Miles.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, George E. Pickup, Frank
C. Webber. |
Ward  —Lawrence Hl. Fortier, Charles IL MeCollister,
Henry D. Willams.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—T. D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Denme L. Farr.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, DENNIE L. FARR.
ALDERMEN.
President, Michael Connors.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Haney. o—J. J. Callanan.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
+-T. J. Dillon. Clerk—T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L: Connor.
Ward  —Patrick Gear, Joseph Hebert, David H. Toole.
Ward  —Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril T.
Labreeque.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest
R. Tauscher.
Ward +—Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O'Connor, Daniel P. Sullivan. .
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit. John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, John Naylor, Frank C.
Webber.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edward B. Evans, Charles M.
Hartzell.
Clerk—John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
 ne,

CITY OFFICERS  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, MARCIENE H. WHITCOMB. —
ALDERMEN.
President. Rufus B. Holmes.
Ward. Ward. .
 —T. J. Lynch. o—R. S. Burns.
 —F. St. Martin.  —James A. Allyn. ,
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 P. W. Shea. Clerk—T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L.-Connor.
Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole,* John Daly,
James Wall.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor  S. Laplante, Ernest
R. Tauscher.
Ward  +—Frank Fitzgerald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyme
S. Menard.
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Elbert Goss, Frederick N. Ricker, Edward N.
White.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M.
Hartzell.
Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigned.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, HENRY A. CHASE.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Richard S. Burns.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —John Wall.
 —Richard H. Dietz.  —George H. Lynds.
 —Thomas J. Lynch.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.

Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary.

Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat. Patrick H. Prendiville.

Ward  —John H. Donoghue, Vietor  Laplante, Wilham
J. Mahoney.

Ward  +—John J. MeIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F.
Sullivan.

Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah
J. Linehan.

Ward  —Edwin M. Chase, Elbert Goss, Caleb J. Humeston.

Ward  —Conrad V. Hein, Charles P. Randall, Wilham
O. White.

Clerk—Daniel W. Kenney.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

J
CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. CURRAN.
ALDERMEN. 
President, Timothy J. Lynch.
Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. o—Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais  —Elbert Goss.
 —Adam Leining.  —Frank Feather.
+—Patrick W. Shea. Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Patrick H. Prindiville.
Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary.
Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr., Henry P. Cunningham,
Patrick H. Prindiville.
Ward  —John H. Connor, William J. Mahoney, Patrick
W. O’Rourke.
Ward +—William J. Dillon, John J. MeIntee, John J.
Riley.
Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, Edward J. Kenney, William
O’Connell.
Ward  —William D. Bunnell, Thomas H. Kearney, Henry Reed.
Ward  —James Collingwood, Charles Randall, Homer J.
Stratton.
Clerk—John P. McTigue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, GEORGE H. SMITH.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Henry A. Collins Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
 Homer J. Stratton.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Salime J. Benoit. William J. Ryan. ,
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George Savoy.

Morris Hicks. James H. Staples.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. o—Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Frank Feather.  —Charles P. Randall.
 Patrick J. O’Connor.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

Messenger—William T. Walsh. .

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MICHAEL CONNORS.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Hugh McLean.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy.  William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Henry A. Collins. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. —Michael J. Doyle.
 —Samuel Migneault.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Frank Feather.  —James H. Wylie, Jr.
 —James S. Lacey.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger— William’ T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS !
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Hugh McLean.
Adam Leining. William MeCorkindale.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Joseph J. Beaudry. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. d—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Saimuel Migneault.  —William G. Beaudro.
 —Moritz E. Ruther.  —Frank B. Towne.
 —Joseph A. O’Donnell.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  !
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Mareiene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Hugh McLean.
Adam Leining. William MeCorkindale.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
I—John P. McTigue. —Michael J. Doyle.
 —Arthur R. Vincent.  William G. Beaudro.
 —Herbert C. Clark.  —Frank B. Towne.
 —Florence Donoghue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

|
  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen. Michael J. Doyle.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
William G. Beaudro. John J. Finn.
Edward F. Dowd. Charles S. Hemingway.
William O. Ducharme. James M. Kennedy.
William MeCorkindale.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Dennis O’Leary. oS—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —John C. Carlin.
 —John R. Allan.  —Frank B. Towne.
 +—Frank B. Towne.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.*
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.**
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Died April .
**Elected by Board of Aldermen, April .

CITY OFFICER  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN. ,
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).

George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.

Frank C. Webber.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
William G. Beaudro. John J. Finn. .
Edward F. Dowd. Charles S. Hemingway.
William O. Ducharme. James M. Kennedy.

William MeCorkindale.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Dennis O’Leary. d—Eugene F. Kane.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —John D. Dearden.
 —Leon W. Bliss.  —Thomas W. Holley.
 Alexander O’Brien.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
William G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy.
: William Lambert.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber. .
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Patrick J. Sullivan. o—Eugene F. Kane.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —James Devine.
 —Leon W. Bliss.  —Thomas W. Holley.
 —John T. Sheehan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
William G. Beaudro. [ra J. ILumes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy.
William Lambert. ,
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Patrick .Sullivan. o—John J. White.
 —Victor S. Laplante.  —Ilerbert Ainley.
 —William F. Wicks.  —Robert P. Cunningham.
 —J. Henry Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
John R. Allan. Ira J. Humes.
William A. Allyn. Michael J. Kearns.
William J. Cray. James M. Kennedy.
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss.  George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Samuel N. Bogart. o—Richard Connor.
 —Viector S. Laplante.  —Herbert E. Ainley.
 William F. Wicks.  —Robert P. Cunningham.
 —J. Henry Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS). 
Herbert E. Ainley. James Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Nooncen.
Frederick Ch] -s. Henry J. Soutiere.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
William A. Allyn. Ira J. Humes.
William J. Cray. Michael J. Kearns.
John R. Allan.* James M. Kennedy.
Thomas H. Finn** James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
I —Dennis O’Leary. o—Richard Connor.
 —Frank Rainault.  —Frank Linnehan.
 —William F. Wicks. i—Jesse E. Sheldon.
 —.J. Henry Sullivan.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. .

Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran. ,

*Resigned February .

**Elected by the Board of Aldermen, February  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Leon W. Bliss. Israel Ducharme.
George R. Burns. James M. Kennedy.
William J. Cray. John D. Ryan.

James J. Sullivan.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Ierbert E. Ainley. James T. Devine. }
George Barnett. George B. Noonan.
Frederick Childs. Henry J. Soutiere.

Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Dennis O'Leary. o—Richard Connor.
 —Frank Rainault.  —Leander C. Hartzell.
 —Thomas A. Bray. i—Jesse E. Sheldon.
 +— Jeremiah J. Slattery.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Comiittees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Leon W. Bliss. Israel Ducharme.
George R. Burns. James M. Kennedy.
William J. Cray. John D. Ryan.
James J. Sullivan. |
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Herbert E. Ainley. William G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
Thomas E. Begley. James T. Devine.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward. .
 —Thomas H. Finn. o—John J. White.
 —Alfred F. Cousineau.  —Allan J. Malcolm. .
 —Thomas A. Bray.  —Phihp M. Judd.
 —Jeremiah J. Slattery.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Messenger— William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran. |

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seven.
) AN ORDINANCE
To Amend an Ordinance entitled, ‘‘An Ordinance in Relation to Junk Dealers and Dealers in Second-hand Articles.’’
|

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:

Section  An ordinanee entitled, ‘‘An ordinance in
relation to Junk Dealers and Dealers in Second-hand Arti@les’’ is hereby amended by striking out Section thereof,
and inserting in the place of said section the following:

Section  For every license granted under this ordinance to dealer in, or keeper of shop for the purchase,
sale or barter of, Junk or old metals, there shall be paid to
the city clerk the sum of twenty-five dollars for the use of
the city.

For every license granted under this ordinance to a
dealer in second-hand articles there shall be paid to the
city clerk the sum of two dollars for the use of the city.

Section  This ordinance shall take effeet upon its
passage,

Approved May .

CITY ORDINANCES  
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seven.
AN ORDINANCE
To Establish the Salaries of the Overseers of the Poor.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:

Section  The annual compensation of the Overseers
of the Poor, each, is hereby established at one hundred and
fifty dollars, beginning with the first day of January,  ,
with fifty dollars additional for the secretary.

Section  So much of Section  of Chapter  of the
Revised Ordinances. as is inconsistent herewith is hereby
repealed.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.

Allowed to go into effect without the signature of the Mayor.
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seven.
AN ORDINANCE
To Establish the Relief Department.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:

Section  Section  of Chapter  of the Revised Ordinances, is hereby amended by adding thereto, after the
first sentence of said section, the following, viz:—

Said Overseers of the Poor and City Almoner shall constitute department to be known as the Relief Department
of the City of Holyoke.

| CITY ORDINANCES
Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.
Approved Sept. .
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
AN ORDINANCE
To Amend Chapter of the Revised Ordinances.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:
Section  The annual compensation of the Mayor is
hereby established at beginning with the first day
of January,  .
Section  So much of Chapter  of the Revised Or- .
dinances, as is inconsistent herewith is hereby repealed.
Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.
Passed over veto of mayor Sept. .
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seven.
AN ORDINANCE
To Establish Salaries of Police.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
ITolvoke as follows:
Section  The annual compensation for police service !
is hereby established as follows, viz:— ;
Assistant Marshal (including services as patrolman), !
fifteen hundred dollars. |

CITY ORDINANCES  

Captain of Police (including services as patrolman),
fourteen hundred dollars.

Lieutenant of Police (ineluding services as patrolman),
thirteen hundred dollars.

Patrolmen, each as follows, viz:—

First vear, ;

: Second year,  ;

Third year,  ;

Fourth year, ;

Fifth year, and thereafter In each year there
shall be two weeks vacation with full pay.

Section  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect December
  .

Approved Nov. .

CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seven.
) AN ORDINANCE
Relating to Leave of Absence of the Permanent Members of
the Fire Department.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:

Section  Subject to the provision that the days to be
assigned for days off, as hereby provided, may be changed
at any time as the interests of the department may require,
each member of the permanent foree of the fire department
shall be allowed leave of absence, without loss of pay, as
follows, viz :—

|

  CITY ORDINANCES

 Twenty-four hours three times in each calendar
month, to be known as ‘‘day off.’’

 One extra hour for dinner on Thanksgiving Day
and Christmas Day.

 Two weeks vacation each vear.

 +: In ease of death in the immediate family of permanent fireman, he shall be given three days leave of absence without loss of pay.

Section  All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.

Approved Nov  ],  .

 
ealendar
‘ing Day
of per:
e of ab.
inees Il:
\pou its

I

 
|

Digitized by Google

'
a
me ™.


