OF THE
FOR |
Containing the Mayor's Address,
City Government Roster,
Annual Reports, Ete.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN

ASSIALTO

CRBS SEELS

Co Coma wy

| Hoiyoxes, MAss.
Transcript @@sep PusiisHinc Co.
|  ,

ae

)  CONTENTS.

Mayor’s Address, .  

City Government,    

Standing Committees of the Board of Aidermen,  

City Officers,   

 Election Officers, sw). eh  

| Report of Fire Commissioners, nr |
Report of Gas and Electric Department,  

, Report of Police Department,  

Report of City Treasurer, |

Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures,  

 Report of Sinking Fund Commissioners, ow el  

: Report of Overseers cf the Poor,  

) Report of the Board of Assessors,  

: Report of City Solicitor, .  

Report of the Park Commissioners, ..  

; Report of City Engineer, .  

 Report of the School Department,  

oO Report of the Board of Health,  

 Report of Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum,  

: Report of the Board of Public Works,. 

: Report of the Water Board, woe   

  Report of the City Auditor,   

 Jury List for  . .)  

 City Officers, 

City Ordinanees, . 

 POE BOA |

Digitized by Google .

 Inaugural Address
- BY ... ,
NATHAN P. AVERY
; Mayor of Holyoke, Mass.
| ZSRIA LTS
SA
  ene SE
S
| CoS
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND NINE.

Oo
, ’
:

A SD
MAYOR'S ADDRESS. |
| Gentlemen of the Board of Aldermen:
. FINANCES.

At the beginning of this new year, few growing cities
of the size of Holyoke can boast sounder or better financial
condition. The increase of population and an ever increasing
attention to the wants and necessities of the people almost invariably in the case of cities mean gradual increasing publie debt, and municipal financiers think they are doing well
if the increase in the public debt is kept in proportion to the
increase in the assessable wealth of the city. This condition
exists not only in cities which are comparatively new and of
recent origin, but also in anciently established communities.
In Holyoke, however, we find that no such state of affairs
exists; that the city is steadily growing in population; that
each year it expends liberal amount for permanent improvements and to the advantage and betterment of its citizens and yet its public debt slowly but steadily decreases.
The net public debt today of the City of Holyoke, exclusive
of the Water and Gas Departments, is very
small debt considering the valuation of the city.

The sinking funds of the city are in very fine condition,
both in the city proper and the Water Department, and with
the exception of the bond issue, which was made for the purpose of purchasing the stock of the Holyoke and Westfield
Railroad in the beginning and which is offset by the stock
of the road, now easily worth three times the amount of the
bond issue, the sinking fund of the city is within 
of the amount required to meet every obligation as it

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
falls due, leaving the sum of  to be placed in the |. |
fund each year, smaller amount than has been paid in recent years.
Again in Massachusetts the borrowing capacity of cities |
is based on certain proportion of the net debt to the valua- "
tion and think am correct when say that there are very .
few cities which have comparatively very large borrowing
capacity. The borrowing capacity of Holyoke is .
In addition to this the city has one of the lowest tax
rates of any manufacturing city in the state, and has commercial assets of great value in its Water Department, Gas  
and Electric Department and its Holyoke and Westfield Railroad stock. Is it any wonder that the credit of the city is |
superb and that it does not have to advertise its bonds for |
) sale, but the purchase of them is solicited by brokerage firms
in advance.
GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
The gas and electric plant continues to prove its usefulness to the city and its ability in good times and bad to
achieve generous measure of business success. During the
year the output of the gas plant was per cent
. larger than for the preceding year, while that of the electric
  station was per cent larger. The electric station has been
remodelled and soon will be put in condition where it will be
| of far greater value to the city than ever before. The old
equipment could only handle an output of about three thousand horse power, while the station as changed over has
handled already maximum output of horse power,
which shows where the station would have been placed this
winter had no change been made.
The great need of the department now is the construction of purifiers at the gas works. The present purifiers were
| constructed to handle an output of cubie feet and are
already caring for cubic feet, which condition, of |

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
course, cannot be increased very much before the adequacy
of the purifiers will be exhausted. With the exception of this
apparatus, the plants seem to be in condition to handle the
business of thagcity for some years and with the increased
patronage and income of the plants, the debt of the plant
ought to be ‘speedily decreased. believe we have as good
a municipal institution of this kind, all things considered, as
any city this side of the Atlantic and we ought to be proud
as citizens that we have as people been able to accomplish
so much.

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The most important work which was accomplished by

the Board of Public Works during the year  was in my

, opinion the building of the sewer to connect the Walnut
street sewer with the Front street sewer. For years the
emptying of sewage into the river above the dam has been a
source of menace to the health of the entire city and the
problems of connecting the two sewers has been dreaded because of its engineering difficulties. The problem, however,
was solved with very little difficulty at the low cost of and am pleased to say that the system has worked to
perfection since the day of its installation.

Another fine piece of work was the building of the Oakdale school within the contract price and within the contract
time, and with only  in extras. In these times when so
much is being said about municipal extravagances and mismanagement, it is pleasure to record the doings of one
municipality where few instances of this kind can be found.

One and one-half miles of permanent streets have been
built and very large number of sidewalks have been resurfaced. New sidewalks have been built and the sewer system still further extended.

The Jackson street underpass has been almost wholly
completed and is today the finest underpass bridge we have in
the city. There has been the usual amount of work on our

|
  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
public buildings and our schoolhouses have been improved |
by new sanitaries and in other ways.
During the coming year the improvements on our schoolhouses should continue and the building of ngw canal bridges
, should be begun. believe also that the policy of permanently improving our highways should continue, in order that
in few years more we may have the city almost entirely
covered with roads of excellent construction. |
The Ingleside underpass through an agreement with the
New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company
should be rebuilt, and thus the most dangerous road situation
in Holyoke be removed.
WATER DEPARTMENT.
The water system of the city during the drought of the
last year proved adequate to supply the city and except in |
certain instances served the citizens with water of good
quality. The commissioners during the year accomplished
the usual routine work and considerable amount of extra
| work. The gate-house was rebuilt at Ashley Ponds and the
canal cleaned out and partly covered to prevent its being refilled with dirt. ,
Something over two hundred trees were set out and a
beginning was made in the forestration of our water department’s lands.
By legislation the fiscal year of the department was
changed, the Mayor made member of the sinking fund com- ,
mission and the accounts of the department made to pass
through the office of the city auditor, all of which changes, ,
I believe, have resulted in good to the city and to the de- ,
partment. One of the best features of the year’s work was
the building of an aerating fountain at the Whiting Street ,
Reservoir which greatly improved the quality of the water
from that source of supply. The department closed the year
with balance of  to its credit, and with the sinking
fund in good condition.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
SCHOOLS.

The one department in which the people are more interested than in any other is always the School Department.
During the year  from my own observation, believe
that much excellent work was done by this department. ;
better system of purchasing supplies and approving accounts
was established, and this system was carried out with great
care and accuracy. The evening schools of the city in proportion to the money expended upon them are accomplish ing wonderful amount of good, and think that even more
attention should be given to them. The principal of the
evening high school, Mr. P. J. Garvey, is worthy of special
praise, and it would not be bad policy in my opinion, if
under the control of the school board and the superintendent,
the evening schools of the city should be placed under the
general supervision of this gentleman. Many of the school
buildings have been repaired and provided with new sanitaries, splendid building has been erected in the Oakdale district, and with the many changes and improvements, we can
look forward to good year in the department of the schools.

PARKS.

The Park Board has continued its policy of steadily improving what park area it has and acquiring new land where
acquisition can be of advantage to the city. Elmwood Park !
is beginning to show what eventually will be its condition
when developed, and Riverside Park each year is being
brought more nearly to the condition when it can be of great
practical use. Additional land has been bought near Riverside Park, and near Elmwood Park, and at Jones’ Point, one
of the most beautiful locations in the city.

The people of Holyoke emphatically voted in favor of

; playgrounds, and it seems to me that the great work of the
Park Board this year is to provide as wisely and as economically as possible so that playgrounds can be established as a

|
|
  MAYOR’S ADDRESS. 
part of the educational and social development system of |
this city. believe when the institution of playgrounds is |
properly used and worked out, few things which the city |
does will be of more immediate benefit to its people, and I
think also that this can be done without any great burden |
to taxpayers. |
: POLICE.
The Police Department of the city is almost invariably |
, the object of some criticism and in many eases justly so, and |
| yet while there are circumstances which oecur from time to
time in our own Police Department which we deplore, I
thoroughly believe that the department as whole is com- |
posed of good, faithful and efficient men, and that its officers
are honest, conscientious and efficient to high degree.
There is one matter which should be absolutely stamped out
of the entire department and that is, the existence of quarrels and strife between the men. do not believe that this
element is present to any very great extent in the Holyoke
Police Department, but it should not be present at all, and
it is for the men themselves to eradicate it. know also that
the members of the force will bring credit to themselves and
to the city by showing still greater courtesy to the public.
Even in making arrests due regard and consideration can
be shown to the offending party, while in enforcing the laws
and dealing with the public, courtesy is as much requisite
of the public officer as courage and honesty.
BOARD OF HEALTH. ,
The Board of Health, with the several officers connected
with it, each year performs its work with efficiency and with
economy. Notwithstanding some statements which have been
made by students of social conditions unfamiliar with the .
city, the death rate of the city proper is not high, and for a
manufacturing city and tenement and apartment house
|

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
city, conditions in Holyoke, so far as health goes, seem to be
on an excellent basis.

The medical inspection of the schools is, believe, proving its value and the appointment of Dr. Carroll as bacteriologist has given general satisfaction. The one thing which
Holyoke needs at the present time and which in few years
will be financial as well as health necessity is Contagious Disease Hospital, and hope this year will be able to
see the beginning of the construction of such an institution. ,

FIRE DEPARTMENT.
The Fire Department does its work so well and the fire
losses of the city keep so low in proportion to the population,
and the valuation of the city, that our people have come to
take the whole thing as matter of course, and very rarely 
do they compare results obtained here with results secured
elsewhere. Possibly we have not secured such benefits in insurance rates as we should have obtained, considering the cost
of the department, yet eventually something of this kind
must result, and meanwhile the city is being well served in
the protection secured to its property and to the lives of its
people.
, RELIEF DEPARTMENT.
The Overseers of the Poor have had very difficult year,
‘as the demands on this department have been more severe
than in long time in the history of the city. The members
of the board, the city almoner and city physician, with their
agents, have handled difficult situation very carefully, and
not only have needy people been relieved of their necessities,
but all this has been accomplished with minimum expense
to the city. .
ASSESSORS.

The work of the assessors in Holyoke and the system

kept by them in their department merits high praise from the

|
|
  MAYOR’S ADDRESS. !
people of the city. Very few boards of the city perform :
their duties with greater honesty and with greater desire |
to be fair and just, and with greater attention to detail. Of |
course, there are people who object to the amount of valua- |
tion on their property, but we must all realize that the assessment of taxes is very difficult matter. Perfection is an '
impossibility and the best any board can do is to approximate |
to what is fair and just. There is one rule which any board :
of assessors must face if it is honest, and that is, the fair
cash value of property. Beyond this it ought not to go, up .
to this the law requires it to go if the members care anything |
for their oath of office. If the fair cash value of the property |
of citizen increases, as an incident to this increase, he must |
expect some increase in valuation, and think also that all of
us would prefer to live in city with an increasing valuation,
provided of course it be an honest increase, than to live and |
do business in city where the fair cash value grows less
because the progress and prosperity of the city is on the wane.
 THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The engineering work of the city accumulates each year
in the amount required to be done, and each year it is performed with great care and efficiency.
At the present time some of the men employed im this.
department are paid by the city and some by the Water De- —
partment. think better results would be obtained if the de- |
partment were made unit and the expense shared between
the city and the Board of Water Commissioners.
. CITY SOLICITOR.
The legal work of the city has been carefully attended |
to by the city solicitor, and the interests of the city have not. .
suffered either within or without the courts. |
|

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  

e CITY TREASURER. |

The city treasurer certainly ranks with any treasurer in

' the state.
THE CITY AUDITOR.

The city auditor performs his duties every year with
splendid efficiency, while his courage and honesty no one can
question. .

. CITY CLERK.

The city clerk is not only skilled in the requirements of
the duties of his office, but has always been of the greatest
assistance to the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen in the
performance of their duty.

TAX COLLECTOR. |

The city during the year lost very faithful and efficient official in the death of Thomas F. McCabe, former tax
collector, who not only endeared himself to his fellow officers
by his courtesy and kindly disposition, but also gained their
respect by the energy and kindly disposition, but also gained
their respect by the energy and faithfulness with which he
performed the duties of his office. Mr. Thomas J. Dillon who
was elected to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr.
McCabe has already demonstrated his efficiency and ability
to carry on the work of the office. —

DEPARTMENT OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

This department now required by law is proving itself
very valuable to the city. The amount of work has increased
very largely and the expense of maintaining the department

has been decreased. |

I cannot too highly comment on the ability and honesty
of the average official of the city of Holyoke. It is easy for
people who do not know the conditions to believe stories of
all kinds, but by those who are familiar with conditions and

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
with the workings of the departments of the city@there can
be but one verdict given, and that is, that in the main this
eity is being splendidly served by its officers and agents. ’
During the past year throughout the city an increased 
amount of attention was paid to the matter of the civic improvement of the city, and an association was formed which I
believe will grow into an institution of great usefulness to 
this community. ‘‘The City Beautiful’’ is not mere fancy
or fad, but is an ideal for which we can all afford to labor |
and which each year should come into fuller realization. |
This city always contains large number of people who
depend for their livelihood on outdoor work, and the winter months are for this class of our citizens somewhat difficult period. It seems to me that in each department where
outdoor work is done, certain proportion could be left for
the winter months when employment is most needed and
most appreciated. Whether the heads of the departments
could informally agree on some such system or not do not
know, but believe some system of this kind would not only |
be helpful where help is needed, but could be adopted with- :
out much, if any, additional cost to the city.
The suffrages of the people have intrusted us with the
general oversight of the affairs of Holyoke as municipal
corporation during the year which lies before us. It is our
duty to prove worthy of the trust which has been given into
our hands, and so govern our conduct that no good interest
of the city shall suffer, and that in part through our endeavors, it may be made better and finer community than
it is even at the present time.
NATHAN P. AVERY, Mayor. |

OF THE
MAYOR.
HON. NATHAN P. AVERY.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN. .
GEORGE BARNETT.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).

HERBERT E. AINLEY, WILLIAM G. CANTIN,
GEORGE BARNETT, FREDERICK CHILDS,
THOMAS E. BEGLEY, JAMES T. DEVINE,

SAMUEL C. WARNER. |

| ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).

GEORGE R. BURNS, EMIL F. DREICORN,
SAMUEL BUTCHER, ISRAEL DUCHARME,
WILLIAM J. CRAY, IRA J. HUMES,
  JAMES E. JAGGER.

  CITY GOVERNMENT. |
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Warp  —THOMAS H. FINN.
Warp  —ALFRED F. COUSINEAU.
Warp  —OTTO F. RICHTER.
, Warp  —JEREMIAH J. SLATTERY.
Warp  —JOHN J. WHITE.
Warp  —ALLAN J. MALCOLM.
 Warp  —PHILIP M. JUDD.
CITY CLERK.
JOHN F. SHEEHAN.
CITY MESSENGER.
WILLIAM T. WALSH. |
CLERK OF COMMITTEES.
JOHN C. DORAN. ,

]
|
|
|
|
|

Standing Committees
OF THE ,
BOARD OF ALDERMEN.

FINANCE.—Aldermen White, Cray, Begley.

ORDINANCES.—Aldermen White, Slattery, Ducharme,
Cray, Dreicorn. ,

Cuaims.—Aldermen Warner, Dreicorn, Jagger, Devine,
Burns.

STREET F'RANCHISES.—Aldermen Judd, Childs, Cantin,
Finn, Warner.

Ru Les.—Aldermen Jagger, Maleolm, Humes, Burns, Ducharme.

LicENSES.—Aldermen Finn, Humes, Cousineau, Cantin,
Burns.

MunicipaL Licntinc.—Aldermen Burns, Cantin, Richter,
Devine, Childs. .

STATE AND MILITARY AID AND SOLDIERS’ RELIEF.—Aldermen Childs, Richter, Maleolm, Ainley, Devine.

Epucation.—Aldermen Butcher, Malcolm, Richter, Begley, Ainley.

ENROLLMENT.—Aldermen Butcher, Slattery, Ducharme,
Cousineau, Ainley.

River NavicaTION, TRADES AND InpbusTRIEs.—A]dermen
White, Judd, Barnett, Dreicorn, Cray. .

| CITY TREASURER. |
Pierre Bonvouloir, Office, Room  City Halk
Elected at Municipal Election.
CITY AUDITOR. |
Daniel W. Kenney, Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen. |
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.
Henry Winkler, Office, Room  City Hall
Appointed annually by the Board of Public Works.
CITY ENGINEER.
James L. Tighe, Office, City Hall
| Appointed every three years by the Mayor.
CITY SOLICITOR.
Michael J. Griffin, Office, High Street
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
| CITY PHYSICIAN.
Irvin H. Farr, M. D., Office, Maple Street
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.

- CITY OFFICERS.  
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT. |
William H. Snow.
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires  
Gilbert Potvin, Jr., Term expires  
James A. Allen, Term expires  
James L. Tighe, Clerk. Oscar C. Ferry, Assistant Clerk.
Members of Board appointed by the Mayor.
ASSESSORS OF TAXES.

Joseph J. Kelly, Chairman, Term expires  
William G. Beaudro, Term expires  
Jeremiah J. Keane, secretary, Term expires  

Elected by the Board of Aldermen. |

) COLLECTOR OF TAXES. —
Thomas J. Dillon, Office, Room  City Hail

Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
Frank O’Connell.
Appointed by the Mayor. )
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. |
| Patrick J. Dowd, Term expires  

Robert D. Moore, Term expires .
William Dillon, Term expires  

James T. Cunningham, Almoner. ,

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS. .
: BOARD OF HEALTH.
Arthur B. Wetherell, M. D. Frank A. Woods, M. D.
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer.
. Appointed by the Mayor. )
INSPECTOR OF MEATS AND PROVISIONS.
; ‘John J. Moynihan. !
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Aldermen. :
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
Thomas J. Shinkwin.
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen. :
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. CO.
Robert P. Cunningham, Thomas Norris,
Fred A. Monat, Matthew B. Begley, Otto Lauckner.
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
Joseph D. Goddu.
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
, PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Charles E. Mackintosh, Chairman, Term expires May 
Wilham J. [lowes, Term expires May 
James F. Burns, Term expires May 
Max Otto Dreikorn, Term expires May 
. Samuel Grandchamp, Term expires May 
Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary. .
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Aldermen.

| CITY OFFICERS.  
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.
Thomas Stansfield, Chairman, Term expires May  |
Charles U. Roy, Term expires May 
James J. Dunn, Term expires May 
Appointed by Mayor and confirmed by Board of Aldermen.
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.

Hon. Nathan P. Avery, Mayor, ex-officio. |
Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-officio.

Mrs. John J. Prew, Term expires March 
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term expires March 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term expires March 

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman, Term expires  
Michael J. Doyle, Treasurer, Term expires |
Jesse E. Sheldon, Secretary, Term expires  
) Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
WATER REGISTRAR.

Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room  City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

John J. Kirkpatrick, Office, Commercial Street
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.

| SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.
John Castle.
Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.

  CITY OFFICERS.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND. |
(Municipal Bonds.)
Thomas J. Gibson,  Term expires  
C. Fayette Smith, Term expires  
Lemuel Sears, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
INSPECTOR OF BUILDINGS AND CITY FORESTER.
' William A. Chase.
Appointed by Board of Public Works.
POLICE DEPARTMENT. |
Marshal, Thomas J. Lynch
| Appointed annually by the Mayor.
Assistant Marshal, Patrick Herbert
Captain, Timothy Haley
Lieutenant, Patrick E. Sullivan
) SERGEANTS OF POLICE. .
Dennis Mack, William E. Blackmer,
George L. Dickinson, John J. Moriarty.

CITY OFFICERS.  
PATROLMEN.
Michael Shine, Michael J. Lynch, |
Richard Peters, Frank M. Priest, .
Thomas F. Riley, Patrick F. Ryan,
Henry J. Campbell, James T. Donoghue,
Frank J. Gallagher, Rock H. Lalonde,
Francis M. Hastings, ‘Maurice M. O’Connor,
John A. Powers, Thomas Bresnahan,
John A. Geran, Maurice H. Shine,
Cornelius Curran, Matthew McClellan,
Peter A. Cullen, Daniel C. McCarthy,
James B. Griffin, Frank R. Metcalf,
Jeremiah J. Linnehan, Richard E. Lowcock, |
Walter J. Murray, William Carey,
James E. Malcolm, Michael Driscoll,
Patrick J. Reardon, Peter J. Manning, .
John A. Vachon, Patrick J. Kennedy,
Henry M. Fisher, Edward F. Gilday, :
Albert Mew, Patrick J. Driscoll,
Maxwell McDowell, Thomas J. Rourke,
James T. Welch, Patrick J. Gaughan,
Henry Sussenguth, Jr., Andre J. Seney,
Michael J. Clifford, John J. O’Donnell,
 Michael P. Conroy, John J. Grady,
George W. O’Connell, Mederiec H. Beloin,
Michael J. Pendergast, John E. Goss.
| LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert. 
: SPECIAL POLICEMEN.
| Otto Egar, Main street.
Patrick J. Meaney, Elm street.
Edward M. Clancy, Walnut street.
James J. Fitzgerald, Worcester place.

  CITY OFFICERS.
Paul C. Egar, Park street.

Frank J. Sullivan, Dwight street.

Conrad Anderson, Whiting Farm.

Felix McCarthy, Whiting avenue. |
Thomas W. Doyle, Hampden street. |
Patrick J. Griffin, High street. |
Edward Cadieux, Brown avenue.

John Schmidt, South Bridge street. ,
Arthur P. McGuire, High street. :
Robert J. Smith, Pine street.
John D. Hardy, Brown avenue.
Patrick F. Sullivan, Gates street.
James J. Sullivan, Park street.
Timothy J. Mannix, Bowers street. |
Charles A. Fisher, Brown avenue. ,
Patrick J. Conway, Elm street. |
Thomas M. Seanlon, North East street. !
John F. Richardson, Northampton street.
Charles R. Evans, Grover street.
Daniel W. Young, Linden street.
Philip Griffin, Pine street.
John C. Doran, Fountain street.
Henry Lempke, West Holyoke.
Joseph Chezek, High street.
Patrick Fitzgerald, Bh street.
| John H. Bell, Cottage avenue.
Auburn P. Capen, Linden street. .
Horace A. Lunn, Taylor street.
Jeremiah J. Linnehan, Dwight street. }
George Young, Oak street. |
George S. Little, Linden street.
Frank L. Avery, Hampshire street.
Theophile Lamagdelain, South East street.
Charles H. Goodrich, Grover street.
. Joseph Beaudin, Hampden street.
Gilbert Potvin, Maple street.
i

, CITY OFFICERS.  
John B. Potvin, East Dwight street.
Wilham F. Salsbury, Elm street.

Alexander Maher, Northampton street. |
Frank Vogel, Martin street.
Anthony Doucette, Center street. 
Edward Stratton, Dwight street.
Frederick G. Bartlett, Cabot street.
James Thompson, Taylor street. ,
Joseph Duhaime, Canal street.
 Clarence E. Provost, James street. .
Michael Kerin, Lyman street.
Leopold Sabourin, East street. |
Franz E. Klopfer, Elm street.
Jonas A. Watts, Elm street.
John McCombs, Dwight street.
John  S. O’Neill, Sargeant street. .
Bert A. Chadbourne, Brown avenue.
John Beauchemin, Maple street.
. Charles  Roberts, Sargeant street.
Patrick Geran, High street.
John Kennedy, Lyman street. }
William Bresnahan, Front street.
Thomas Shea, Elm street.
James Hennessey, Pine street.
Francis J. Linnehan, Suffolk street.
Moses Gregore, Bond street.
Martin Finn, North East street. ;
Peter J. Lappin, East street.
John B. Sullivan, Elm street.
Stanley A. Arent, Park street.
| Timothy Maloney, John street, Willimansett.
Carl F. Geissler, Park street.
Albro M. Ricker, Arlington avenue.
Henry B. Spencer, Dwight street. ,
Omer Lapointe, Canal street.
Joseph N. Landry, High street.

  CITY OFFICERS.
Edmund Dupuis. Maple street.
Napoleon B. Emery. Dwight street.
David Keefe. B. M. depot.
Harlon C. Ashley, Cherry street.
Edward O'Connell. B. M. depot. .
Jerry Codairre, Dwight street.
William F. Driseoll, Elim street.
Edgar A. Spooner, ighland terrace. Daniel S. Cronin, Samesett street.
Charles LL. Schcenfeldt. West Holvoke. .
Hugo Zener, Rock Valley.
George Hoffmever, Rock Valley.
Joseph L. Rigali, High street.
William Mcssman, B. M. Railroad.
Fred S. Webber, Sycamore street.
William B. Rogers, Maple street.
W. A. Baldwin, Cottage avenue.
Thomas J. Slavin, South street.
William J. McLaughlin, Newton place.
John Reilly, Hampshire street.
Car] Bock, Elliott street.
John Davitt, South Bridge street.
Joseph D. Goddu, Prospect street.
Melvin N. Snow, Allyn street.
John Bunyan, Cabot street.
George M. Miller, Hampshire street.
Louis Therrien, Main street.
George A. Tiiecas, Race street.
Martin Fitzgerald, Elm street.
 Thomas Skilling, Newton street.
Klzear Robert, South Summer street.
Alexander S. Miller, Sycamore street.
James H. Tyde, Commercial street.
Tulio Gottardy, High street.
Charles II. Smith, Dwight street.
Harvey Robinson, Tampden street.

CITY OFFICERS.  
Mark Wallington, Pearl street.
George W. Racklitfe, Hitchcock street.
Harry M. Leonard, Newton place.
Napoleon Duval, Bond street.
David A. Raymond, Newton place.
Joseph Carriveau, Center street.
' Alphonse Duclos, Cabot street.
Frank J. Meehan, Ely street.
Elisha N. Brigham, Morgan street.
William E. West, Glen street.
- George F. Hills, West street.
Dennis Pepin, Park street.
Michael Healey, Easthampton road.
Romeo R. Tureoni, Maple street.
Arthur B. Parker, Newton street.
Thomas E. Gallagher, Dwight street.
John J. Daley, Dwight street.
Patrick O’Connor, Bridge street, South Hadley Falls.
Thomas F. Buckley, Main street, South Hadlev Falls.
Fred  Williams, Hampden street.
Henry W. Wilhams, Hampden street.
Jeremiah J. Murphy, Sargeant street.
John J. O’Connor, Ingleside. :
Joseph W. Eaton, Hampden street. :
Charles Grandchamp, South Summer street.
Philias J. Tetrault, South Bridge street.
Henry Godin, South Canal street.
Frank W. Redfern, Race street.
Patrick J. Manning, Samosett street.
Patrick J. Maley, Walnut street. ,
Nelson W. Rogers, Pleasant street.
Gilbert Beaupre, North Rridge street.
Charles Ward, Oak street.
John W. McDonald, East strect. |
William L. Abar, Main street.
Albert Uschmann, Main street.

  CITY OFFICERS. |
Patrick J. Dempsey, Dwight street.
Pierre Coulombe, Hamilton street. |
Thomas J. Kelley, Rock Valley. ,
John C. Hanley, Pine street. |
Joseph Garrant, Hampden street.
James H. Leach, Mt. St. Vincent.
Levi S. Whitcomb,  -Elm street.
Martin J. Rohan, Walnut street.
Arthur P. Hurlburt, Park street.
Henry Bouthiller, High street. .
Emil B. Ezold, Vernon street.
Joseph H. Saulnier, Chicopee street, Willimansett.
Irving Teahan, Lyman street.
- Frederick A. Wheeler, South street.
Thomas Dean, Elm street.
William MeNaught, Sargeant street.
Gustav Miller, Grant street.
Adelard Lafontaine, Summer street.
Godfrey Lachapelle, East street.
Parker N. Ingram, Dwight street.
Maurice Kennedy, Elm street.
John J. Roy, Bridge street.
Timothy Falvey, Pine street.
Patrick J. Fitzgerald, Lyman street.
Michael Foley, North Summer street.
Michael J. Baker, Bh street.
John Kieley, Essex street.
Alfred D. Durocher, Jr., Main street.
Frederick N. Sears, Elm street.
Emerson C. Coe, Elm street.
John F. Smith, Canal street.
Ira I. Dobbs, Pleasant street.
Patrick Clifford, Center street.
Charles Gaffney, Grover street.
Joseph Meehan, Sargeant street.
James Henderson, Chestnut street.
|

CITY OFFICERS.  
Felix Tokarski, Union street.
Dennis Connor, South Summer street.
Patrick J. Lyons, Dwight street.
Timothy Murphy, Hamilton street.
Bruno Uhlmann, Temple street.
Ovila Porter, South Bridge street.
Francois Morin, South Summer street. 
Louis E. Fortin, Sargeant street. |
Henry Killelea, Maple street.
John C. Dickinson, Carew street, South Hadley Falls.
Thomas Gehan, Maple street.
Samuel J. Hall, Chestnut street.
John Malcolm, Chapin street.
Albert Bellerose, Ely court.
Joseph Vallee, Linden street.
CONSTABLES.
Valentine J. O’Donnell, Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Hillside avenue.
. Ernest R. Laduke, Coit street. .

Leon W. Bliss, Westfield road. .
Salime J. Benoit, Walnut street. ,
Fred Laduke, Coit street. |

John Schmidt, South Bridge street.
J. Sidney Wright, Taylor street.

WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.

Wilham Hart, Newton street.
Leonard Mahan, Cabot street. |
John Moore, Shawmut avenue.
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK AND STONE.
KE. A. Ellsworth, Essex street. ,
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Timothy J. MeCarthy, Waldo street.

. CITY OFFICERS.
W. J. Howes, Taylor street.
A. F. Sickman, Lincoln street.
J. M. Sickman, Oak street. |
J. J. Keane, Linden street.
- John J. Kirkpatrick, Beacon avenue.
M. N. Snow, Allyn street.
Wallace E. Sawin, Taylor street.
MEASURER OF GRAIN AND MEAL.
| William R. Ross, Taylor street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
| A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
James K. Morrill.
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
t,
James K. Morrill. |
, FENCE VIEWERS. |
Daniel O’Connell, Hampden street.
Almon A. Jones, Hampden street.
Newton F. Holmes, Maple street.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Elm street. !
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Michael Shine, Nonotuck street.
Richard Peters, Pearl street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
Henry J. Campbell, Ely street.
John A. Davis, Hampden street. ;

CITY OFFICERS.  
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
 Herbert H. Fiske, Appleton street.
T. L. Curran, Main street.
F. A. Whiting, Main street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
C. R. Evans, Grover street.
Homer P. Fiske,  Appleton street.
William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
George I. Sackett, Northampton street. .
: Margaret Lawless, Main street. ,
E. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
G. H. Lynds, Harrison avenue.
KE. G. Whiting, Oak street.
' Edward A. Best, Brown avenue.
John Griffin. |
William  S. Bhing, Washington avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
| John J. Kenney, Pine street.
Patrick Murphy, Elm street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Cabot street.
Louis Bibeau, Race street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
| Hosea B. Fuller, Pleasant street.
Michael F. Maloney, Bridge street.
Michael F. Shea, Davis street.
William Bresnahan, Front street.
B. E. Sullivan, Parker street. |
George A. Lawrence, Park street.
Thomas Shea, Elm street.
Francis J. Linnehan, Sonoma place. 
Joseph Laframboise, Prew Co., Willimansett, Mass.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Prew Co., Willimansett, Mass.
Hilarion Duhamel, Main street.
John Kennedy, Lyman street.

  CITY OFFICERS.
James Hennessey, Pine street.
William T. Wilson, Northampton street.
Alfred Frechette, Main street. ,
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Mary Donoghue, South Bridge street.
Peter Fitzpatrick. .
Frank L. Morton, Center street, Springfield. ,
Bertha O’Keefe, Nonotuck street.
|
MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL. |
T. L. Curran, Main street. |
E. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
R. T. Prentiss, Taylor street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street. .
Daniel O’Connell, Jr., Hampden street.
W. S. Thorpe, Lincoln street. |
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street. |
C. H. Richards, Oak street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street. |
C. B. Davis, Elm street.
F, A. Whiting, Main street. ;
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.  
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
Homer P. Fiske, Appleton street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
M. E. Fitzgerald, South Hadley Falls. /
Edward A. Best, Brown avenue. |
John Kenney, Pine street. ,
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Mary Donoghue, South Bridge street. ,
WEIGHERS OF BEEF, PORK, MUTTON AND HIDES.
W. O. Judd, Chestnut street.
| F. C. Steele, South street. |

CITY OFFICERS.  
SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.
S. M. Knowles, Cottage avenue.
Casper Ranger, Appleton street.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street. .
F. W. Ely, Locust street.
A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
: Lewis Warner, Pearl street.
Patrick Walsh, Dwight street.
BURIAL AGENT. |
Harry Crosby, High street.

ELECTION OFFICERS.
WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Patrick Gear.
Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Shaughnessy.
) Clerk—Charles H. Goodrich.
Deputy Clerk—Rodolphe Baillargeon.
Inspector—Cornelius F. Crowley, James Clark, Ernest
Provost, Clark E. Belding.
Deputy, Inspectors—Jeremiah Mannix, Albert Langlois, |
Michael H. Fitzgerald, William M. Perry.
WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—John H. Ryan. )
Deputy Warden—Michael M. Murphy.
Clerk—Wiulbur A. Robinson.
Deputy Clerk—John Irwin.
Inspectors—William Viens, Henry Frappier, Thomas J.
Maroney, Francis J. Meehan.
Deputy Inspectorgs—John F. Kennedy, Thomas J. Murray, Ulric Montcalm, Frank F. Lipps.
| WARD TWO—PRECINCT A. ;
Warden—Odilon Moreau. |
Deputy Warden—Louis A. Turgeon.
Clerk—F red A. Monat. '
Deputy Clerk—Romuald O. Lamagdelaine.
Inspectors—Rodolphe A. Coderre, Fred T. Vigneaux,
Charles J. Perry, Hilaire Jacques, Jr.
Deputy Inspectors—Joseph E. Lapointe, Octave Bergeron, Walter W. Larivee, Philias J. Goddu.

ELECTION OFFICERS.  
WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Edward J. Whalen.

Deputy Warden—Dennis Healey.

Clerk—Joseph B. Fontaine.

Deputy Clerk—Edward Bourbeau. "

Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Jr., John L. Fournier,
Edward D. Welch, Max Weisbach.

| Deputy Inspectors—John C.. Colton, Elzeard Robert,
Dennis Kelliher, Felix Brodeur.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Isadore W. Davis.

Deputy Warden—Henry L. Thayer.

Clerk—Thomas E. Begley.

Deputy Clerk—Bartholomew Donoghue, Jr.

Inspectors—Fred Leining, George Barnett, Jr., Michael
Corridan, Edward Hart. Deputy Inspectors—John Thomson, William Fredericks, August H. Baush, Jeremiah Connors, Jr.

WARD THREE— PRECINCT B.

Warden—Paul H. Koehler.

Deputy Warden—August Boie.

Clerk—John EF. Lowcock. :

Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin.

Inspectors—Paul Witt, Ernest Satler, John F. Higgins,

 John Cronin.

Deputy Inspectors—Karl A. H. Neumann, Edward Hen- /

ault, John Schmidt, Frederick Foerster. 
| WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.
Warden—John J. Byrnes.
Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Begley.
) Clerk—Joseph D. Goddu.

  ELECTION OFFICERS.
Deputy Clerk—Alexander P. Barre.
Inspectors—F rank Lamay, William J. Dillon, Joseph
Masse, Hormisdas Thomas.
Deputy Inspectors—Thomas C. Dufresne, Urban Fleming, Adam Ostrowsky, James Long.
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.
Warden—James J. Driscoll.
Deputy Warden—William J. O’Connor.
Clerk—John R. MeNally.
Deputy Clerk—Jcseph K. Menard.
Inspectors—Michael Kerin, Levi Russell, David A. Hendrix, Joseph J. MeCarthy.
Deputy Inspectors—Joseph Archambault, Michael J.
Grady, Joseph Daudelin, Patrick Shea.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—James H. O’Connell.
Deputy Warden—Owen L. Hand: }
Clerk—Henry B. Spencer.
Deputy Clerk—Edward C. Purrington.
Inspectors—Richard  S. Burns, Daniel F. O’Connell, Ira
J. Humes, G. Herbert Foster.
Deputy Inspectors—John J. O’Connor, Joseph N. Prew,
Joseph A. Hinchcliffe, Patrick Green.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Elliot D. Shaw.
Deputy Warden—George C. Miller.
Clerk—Frank O’Connor. ;
Deputy Clerk—Patrick J. Dempsey. .
Inspectors—John L. Connor, White P. Bidwell, Thomas
J. Hart, Burlin M. Poole.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick W. Fitzgerald, William A.
Allyn, Michael J. Kingsley, Charles S. Muriless.

ELECTION OFFICERS.  
WARD SIX—PRECINCT A. 
Warden—F red N. Ricker.
Deputy Warden—Charles E. Watson.
Clerk—Lawrence F. Dowd.
Deputy Clerk—Joseph Morley.
Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles McCauley,
James T. Devine, William R. Shumway.
Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Thomas O’Connor, George P. Gagnon, Andrew Nye.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Edmund J. Lee.
| Deputy Warden—Peter Freeman, Jr.
Clerk—Frederick Shearer.
Deputy Clerk—Albion F. Hitchcock.
Inspectors—Leon D. Holmes, Wilbur H. Stedman, Vincent D. P. Sheehan, James T. Barry.
Deputy Inspectors—James J. Jagger, James Gray 
Chestnut street), Patrick Cavanaugh, Nicholas Cavanaugh.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.
Warden— Willis D. Ballard. ,
Deputy Warden—George W. Doane.
Clerk—Thomas O’Keefe. ‘
Deputy Clerk—Bernard F. Bigelow.
Inspectors—Linus D. Crafts, Frank L. Buck, William
S. Thorpe, Arthur R. Root.
Deputy Inspectors—Raymond P. Allen, Herbert C. Kegan, William R. S. Chase, William H. Delaney.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.
Warden— Walter F’. Batchelder.
Deputy Warden—John M. James.

  ELECTION OFFICERS.
 Clerk—John W. Scolley.
Inspectors—Earl J. Cain, Edwin B. Evans, William
O’Connell, John H. Delaney.
Deputy Inspectors—Thomas E. Sullivan, Richard P.
Stapleton, Levi E. Fay, J. Harold Ely.
| |

REPORT OF
FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
OFFICE OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS,
HouyoxkeE, Mass., January .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: In accordance with the requirements of
the ordinances of the city, your Board of Fire Commissioners
present to you their report for the year ending December  ,
 .

The Board met January and organized by the
election of Charles L. Newcomb as chairman and George J.
Prew as vice-chairman, and John Hildreth as secretary.

It gives your commissioners great pleasure to report to ,
you one of the most successful years of fire fighting the de- |
partment has ever had, although there has been an unusually
large number of fires and alarms, viz.: three hundred and
twenty, seventy-nine more than last year, and more than we
have ever had in one year before. July was busy day for
fires, there being twenty-one reported for that day, nearly
all of which were caused by lightning; one of the heaviest
being that in Potvin and Kenney’s block, the loss being |
$ Almost third of the fire losses for the year came
from fires caused by hghtning.

The total fire loss for the year was and the
insurance companies paid leaving net loss of
only an average loss per fire above insurance of
$ .

We feel sure that this record will please the taxpayers
who by their generous appropriations have made it possible

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
to maintain the department up to its present high state of
efficiency. Every one of these fires had in it dangerous possibilities, and but for the prompt and intelligent: work of your
firemen might have resulted in conflagration such as made
a wilderness of our sister city of Chelsea. We are more and
more impressed with the importance of getting to the scene of
the fire before it gets much headway. After fire gets well
started it is impossible to prevent heavy loss, and we urge
our citizens to call the department the moment the fire is discovered. Very often much valuable time is lost in trying to
put out the fire without calling the department. This is '
mistake. Call the department, then try and put out the fire. |
There has been many accidents from fire during the year, }
but fortunately not many of them were of serious character.
It is with deep regret that we have to report the loss of two |
lives through the use of kerosene, viz.: Mrs. Israel Labelle,
of Bond street, January and Mrs. Mary E.-Leary, |
of John street, September .
In this connection we want to thank the public in general and the street railway in particular for their co-operation
with us in keeping the streets clear after an alarm has been
rung in. The telephone has been splendid auxiliary to the
department, about one hundred calls coming to us over the
telephone.
The dangerous character of fireman’s duty was shown
in the manner Driver Lynch lost his life. Just exactly what
caused the trouble with his horses we do not know, but we
know that by his death the department lost faithful driver
and the city good citizen. He was member of the department for twenty-two years and we extend to his widow and
children our heartfelt sympathy. We wish that some substantial provision had been made by the city to cover such
cases.
We take this opportunity of commending the officers and
men in the Fire Department for the excellence of their work
during the past year. We know better than the public how

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
hard, disagreeable and dangerous their work is and we believe we are expressing the sentiment of the citizens in general when we publicly express to you our appreciation of
your splendid work. Over twelve millicns of property
actually endangered by fire in the three hundred and twenty
alarms and only little over thirty-cne thousand lest, is the
highest testimonial of the remarkable work you have done;
and we are very glad indeed that the city is taking steps to
show in substantial way its appreciation of your good work
by passing liberal pensicn ordinance.

, The new engine which was made for us last year has,
been plaeed in the Highlands engine house. This is cne of
the most powerful engines in this part of the state, up to date
in every respect and adds very much to the effective work of
the department. ,

We thank your Honorable Mayor and Board of Aldermen for your generous appropriations, which have made it
possible for your commissioners to steadily improve the department. We are glad to be able to say that we have lived
inside the appropriations you made for us, but to do this we
eould not purchase any hose during the year and our supply of hose is altogether too low, and we must purchase at
least three thousand feet at once. We trust you will take this
into account when you make the appropriations.

We make the following recommendations. Some of them
are time honored, but they are worthy of your consideration.

First. The changing of the headquarters from High
street. We do not believe it is necessary to rehearse the arguments in favor of the change. The necessity for the change
grows more imperative each year, and the chances of getting
a good location are growing less each year. /

Second. We again recommend that engine No. be refitted with new pumps and engine. It has been in use
twenty-four years. ,

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
, Third. We recommend that House No. be sold and a
modern engine house suitable for this district be erected
somewhere near the center of the ward. |

Fourth. The time has come when we believe that if we
are to keep abreast with the times we must purchase for our
flying squadron ‘some form of horseless vehicle. They are no
longer an experiment but are being used extensively in all
first class departments. Horses are expensive to maintain,
and we have had to purchase five during the year.

Fifth. We again recommend the putting of all wires
connecting the fire alarm system underground. We depend on  
this branch of our service too much to continue to take the
risk of having the wires above ground any longer than we are
obliged to. There are several other improvements needed in
the fire alarm system, but until we get new headquarters we do

' not think it would be wise to undertake them.

Sixth. We recommend that the Water Commissioners
continue the excellent work of the past two vears in putting
in new hydrants, and the Hercules Independent Gate, and we
express our high appreciation of their very generous treatment of the Fire Department in this matter and trust that
they will keep up the good work until our city is thoroughly
well equipped with first class hydrants.

Seventh. We recommend that the gas and electric department purchase the coal to be used on the apparatus.
They ean probably buy such ecal much cheaper than we can.

Eighth. We recommend that vou make an appropriation
for the purchase of horseless vehicle for the use of the
Chief.

. |
|
|
|
|

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
| FINANCE. ,
The following is statement of the receipts and expenditures in the Fire Department for the year ending Dember :
Total appropriations and transfers, 
Appropriation for new engine, ...  
Receipts from sale of horses,  
Total receipts,  
EXPENDITURES.
For salaries, Ce 
For call engineers and stokers, 
Repairs, new apparatus, supplies and contingent
account,   
For new engine, .  
Transferred to other departments, ..  
Balance on hand, .  
Total, Cee
SALARIES PAID IN THE DEPARTMENT.
Chief engineer, per year, ... 
. First assistant engineer, per year,. ..  
Second assistant engineer, per year, 
Superintendent of fire alarm telegraph, per year,  
Linemen per year, ...  
Captains, per year, :.  
Lieutenants, per year, ..  
Two permanent engineers of steamers, per year
each,  we  
Drivers and permanent men, per year, ...  
Four call engineers of steamers, per year, ..  
Six stokers of steamers, per vear, ..  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Permanent men in the department, first year,  
Permanent men in the department, second year,  
Permanent men in the department, third year,  
’ Permanent men in the department, fourth year,  
Permanent men in the department, fifth year,  
Secretary of commission, per year, ..  
Veterinary, per year, ... )
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Charles L. Neweomb, Chairman, Term expires January,  .
George J. Prew, Term expires January,  .
James H. O’Connell, Term expires January,  .
John Hildreth, Secretary.
John J. Moynahan, Veterinary.
The number of fires and alarms during each month in
the year has been as follows, viz. :
December,  ,. ... a
January,  ...  
February,  ,.   
March,  .
April,  ,. 
May,   ... 
June,  we  
July,  ...
August,  ...    
September,  ,.  ...  
October,  YD
November,  ,.  ...  D
Total, Ce |
|

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
HAY AND FEED. |
The cost of maintaining this department has been very
much higher than usual on account of the higher prices of
feed of all descriptions. We have very little feed in the de- |
partment at the present time, and it will be necessary to stock
up very soon. |
HOUSES.
We are glad to say that most of the engine houses are
In very good condition. The High Street Engine House, if it
is to be retained, ought to have some needed improvements,
| but we are hoping that the city will soon replace this house
with one better fitted for the needs of our department.
The causes of the different fires and alarms are classified
as follows, viz.: 
Oil stove,  ...
Man smoking, . 
Set by lighted matches, .  
Matches in clothes being cleaned,. JI
Matches in rags in rag duster,.  
Matches in eotton, .
Man stepped on matches, .  
Defective stove pipe,. . 
Defective furnace pipe,. .  
Boy drawing gasolene lit match,.  
Hot bar thrown into sawdust, # 
Sprinkler head burst, .  
Blasting tree, tree took fire, rs |
Fire in resistance box, .  
Meat on stove caught fire, .  
Clothes caught from stove, .  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Door caught from gas jet, .  
Bureau caught from gas jet,. JI
Excelsior caught from furnace spark,  
Floor caught from fireplace,  
Reflection from heater used to dry plaster,.  
Woman put oil into stove,.  
Leak from steam pipe,. . J
Friction from slipping belt,.  
Friction in spindle shaft, .  
Friction in gears, |
Sparks from city dump,. ..  
Sparks from chimney set roof afire..  
Paper in ecellar,.  .
' Charcoal on top of boiler caught fire,.  
Sparks from stove set eoke afire,.  
Woman fell down stairs with lamp,. 
Aleohol lamp, Be kD
Clothes press caught from lamp,.  |
Hot water heater explodes,.  
Lamp breaking...  ...
Moulding caught from stove pipe,.  
Kerosene lamp explodes, |
Spontaneous combustion,.  ...
Set by boys,. ...
Soot on fire in chimney,. .  
Careless use of matehes,. .  
Defective chimney, .
Set by tramps,.  B
Overheated bearing,.   
Fire started in smoke house,.  
Set from cigar stub,.   
Gas jet set curtain on fire, .  
Rats and matches,  ...  
Thawing out water pipes, .  
Hot ashes,    
Struck by ightning,. . 

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
Overturned lamp, .'.  
Fillmg lighted gasolene stove, # 
Thermostat set off by heat of boiler..  
Match set couch on fire,. .  
False alarms, Be
Draperies caught from matech,.  
Children and matches, .  
Gasolene caught fire, |
Overheated stack,  ...  
Tea kettle boiled over, .  
Caught from stove,.   
Sparks from locomotive,. .  QOverheated stove pipe, ...
Pipe in coat pocket,. he.  
Oil stove exploded, .  
Leaky gas pipe,. .  
Overturned stove,  ...  
Incendiary,  ... ee
Pot of chocolate boiled over, es |
Back draft in chimney,. .  
Transformer burned, re |
Hot coal jumped from stove and set floor on fire.  
Match in man’s pocket,. . |
Pan of grease caught on fire,.  
Metal in picker,.  ...  
Overheated stove...  ... ee
Unknown,  ,
Total  ... 
FIRES AND ALARMS.

The number of fires and alarms during the past year was
three hundred and twenty, of which one hundred and fourteen were rung in from signal boxes, one hundred and nine- |

- teen were still alarms, and there were eighty fires where no
alarm was given, and seven by thermostat.
. 

* REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.

‘There were nine false alarms. The following is statement of the valuation of the property endangered by fire
and insurance on said property, together with the amount of
the losses by fire and the amount paid by insurance companies, viz:

Buildings,.   
Contents, . 

Total, Soeee 
Insurance on buildings, $ 
Insurance on contents, Cok  

Total...  ... 
Damage to buildings,. , 

. Damage to contents,.  
: Total. ee, 
Insurance paid on buildings,.  
Insurance paid on contents,  

Total, Co 
Total damage, Co 

Total insurance paid,.  

Total net loss of fires and alarms, 
The average loss per fire above insurance was, 

- APPARATUS.

We have placed in commission the new Amoskeag, extra first size, at the Highlands, and this powerful piece of
apparatus will greatly add to the fire protection in this dis- 
trict.

 

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
The apparatus now in service consists of six steam fire
engines, two spare engines, two double-tank chemical engines,
one combination hose and chemical wagon, five two-horse
hose wagons, one aerial truck, one Leverich hook and ladder
truck, one double-tank combination chemical and Seagreave
hook and ladder truck, one three-horse despatch wagon, six
exercise and supply wagons, two chief’s wagons, twentyeight three-gallon chemical extinguishers, one superintendent
of fire alarm wagon and three sleighs. The apparatus is in
first-class condition with the exception of needed repairs on
certain pieces of apparatus.
LOCATION AND ASSESSORS’ VALUATION OF THE
FIRE ENGINE HOUSES.
House No.  High street,
value of house and land,  
House No.  Main street, |
value of house and land,  
House No. West Hampden street, ;
value of house and land, 
House No.  Canal street,
value of house and land,  
House No.  South street, |
value of house and land,  
House No.  Chestnut street,
value of house and land, 
$ 
MANUAL FORCE. 
We now have in the department the following officers
and man, viz:—Chief, two assistant engineers, superintendent of fire alarm telegraph, eleven captains and one assistant also acts as captain, nine lieutenants, two permanent
engineers, twenty drivers, twenty-nine permanent hose and

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.

ladder men, and one night watchman. We also haye four call
engineers and six stokers, making total force of eighty-six
men. This, together with forty members of the auxiliary
force, makes total of one hundred and forty-six men available for large fire. The auxiliary force consists of applicants
for permanent positions in the Fire Department, and members of the Veteran Firemen’s Association.

HORSES.

We have forty-two horses in the department, most of
which are in very good condition; but some are showing signs
of weakness and must be disposed of and new ones purchased
to take their places.

This branch of our service continues to be expensive, but
we have not been able as yet to dispense with horses. We trust
the time is coming when we ean do this.

The indications are that the problem of replacing horses
with motors is being practically solved.

We have during the past year purchased five new horses.

HOSE.

. We want again to commend the good judgment of the
Water Commissioners in putting in new hydrants. While.

 these hydrants cost considerable in the first place, they are
in the line of good investment and the more hydrants we
have the less hose we have to purchase. We hope the Board
of Water Commissioners will continue to install new hydrants
in many of the important sections of our city where they are
needed, and thus save the cost of purchasing expensive hose
which lasts only few years. We must have some hose, but
the more hydrants we have the less hose we need.

. REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS. :

The following is the amount of hose on hand:

Good. Fair. Poor. Total.
House No. ..  
House No.   
House No.   
House No.   
House No. ..  
House No.   

, Totals, 
FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

We would repeat our recommendations of many years
passed that the wires of the Fire Alarm System be put underground in the thickly settled portions of the city. We
have been very fortunate in’ the past year that no serious ac- :
cident has happened to our system, but we believe that it
is wrong to carry these wires overhead any longer, and we
trust that you will make arrangements so that your Board
of Fire Commissioners can carry out this improvement in the
coming year. failure on the part of our Fire Alarm System
to properly work, would be serious matter, and we have to
commend our superintendent of this department that he has
kept his apparatus in such excellent shape that we have had
no serious trouble. ,

FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

The property in this department is as follows, viz: a
Strong current protector board,. 
Storage battery, .* .).  
Case and switehboard, ....  miles of wires,.  tower bells and strikers,.  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS. :
  mechanical gongs in engineer’s house,. Gamewell signal boxes,   telegraph poles, ... private Gamewell boxes,. .
  eighteen-inch gongs and indicators,. 
| indicators without gongs, .. dead man,.   
D private star boxes,. ...
  city signal boxes, star make,.   :
  circuit repeater,.  stop clocks, De 
Horse, a,  
Wagon,  
Harness, etce., Ce  
Sleigh, ...  
| pike poles, cant hook, crowbar, shovels,. miles of line wire on hand,. .. back boards for boxes, .. hook blocks for boxes,. .. key boxes,.  een  
Total  ... 
PERMANENT FORCE.
 John T. Lynch, chief engineer.
 Patrick J. Reilly, assistant chief.
 Joseph M. LaFrance, second assistant chief.
 John Castle, superintendent of fire alarm. "
 Daniel J. Gorman, captain.
 James J. Long, captain.
 Daniel Hogan, captain.
,  Samuel D. Loomis, captain.
 George F. Orrell, captain. |
 Daniel J. Brennan, captain. |
 Patrick J. Hurley, captain. :

' REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS. Daniel McLean, captain. |
 John P. Wynn, captain. |
 John F. Rohan, captain. |
 John Welch, captain.
 Jeremiah Hallissey, heutenant.
 John J. Casey, lieutenant. ,
 Joseph M. Riley, lieutenant. .
 John J. Ryan, lieutenant.
 Michael J. Donoghue, lieutenant.
 John J. Manning, lieutenant.
 James J. Crowley, lieutenant.
 Walter Watt, leutenant.
 William Gately, lieutenant.
 Charles H. Knapp, permanent man.
 Louis C. LaBreque, permanent man.
 James Lynch, permanent man.
 Timothy Harrington, permanent man.
 James J. Sullivan, permanent man.
 Albert Tardy, permanent man.
 Daniel Moynahan, permanent man.
 Austin F. Mulqueeny, permanent man.
 Patrick J. Kennedy, permanent man.
 Daniel J. Lynch, permanent man.
 Frank S. Lynch, permanent man.
 Thomas Conway, permanent man.
 Chatles F. Aurnhammer, permanent man.
 George A. Ellison, permanent man.
 Thomas Ash, permanent man. |
  James Brady, permanent man.
 William H. Strain, permanent man.
 James O’Grady, permanent man.
 John J. Moriarty, permanent man.
 Patrick J. Kennedy, permanent man.
 Patrick J. Rohan, permanent man.
 John J. Fenton, permanent man.
 James M. Gately, permanent man.

a  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
 John B. Moreau, permanent man.
 Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man.
 August F. Grennert, permanent man.
 Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man.
 Michael Bowler, permanent man.
  Matthew F. Welch, permanent man. :
 Robert E. McCarthy, permanent man.
 Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man.
 James F. Dwyer, permanent man.
 William Brady, permanent man.
 Michael Riley, permanent man.
 Dennis Devine, permanent man.
 Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man.
 William J. Millane, permanent man. }
:  Sifroy Perron.
 Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man.
 Paul Bieber, permanent man.
 George Miles, permanent man.
 Michael Lacey, permanent man.
 Patrick Barrett, permanent man.
 Dennis J. Sheehan, permanent man.
 John J. Nugent, permanent man. :
 George Hickson, permanent man.
 Dominick A. Gorman, permanent man. .
 Patrick H. McCabe, permanent man.
 Ernest L. Krug, permanent man.
 Thomas Sullivan, permanent man.
 d. Edward Clancy, permanent man. )
 Thomas Fallon, permanent man.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS. oa
— CALL ENGINEERS AND STOKERS.
STEAMER NO.  |
Frank A. Shelley, engineer, mechanic, Newton place, April,
 |
White P. Bidwell, stoker, paper finisher, Newton place,
April,  .
STEAMER NO.  .
James A. Flynn, engineer, mechanic, Hamilton street, October .
Edward Ahearn, stoker, moulder, Main street, August
  |
STEAMER NO.  .
L. EF. Thorpe, stoker, carpenter, Waldo street, March,
 |
STEAMER NO.  |
John F. Mahoney, engineer, tinner, Center street,  .
Patrick J. Ginley, stoker, August |
} STEAMER NO.  .
James J. Murray, stoker, August |
STEAMER NO.  .
James F. O’Connor, engineer, July .
Patrick J. Cronin, stoker, mechanic, High street.

n  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
CONCLUSION.

We again thank the Honorable Mayor and City Council
for their many acts of courtesy and kindness shown us during
the past year, and we trust that the new Board of Aldermen
will make their appropriations sufficiently liberal to enable
us to still further improve the various branches of our department, and we trust that our recommendations may have
their earnest consideration, and that some of them may be
earried into effect during the coming year. We desire to
thank the Board of Public Works, the Board of Water Commissioners, the Electric Light Department, City Clerk, City Treasurer, City Auditor, City Marshal and Police Officers,
and all other public officers for the many acts of consideration and courtesy they have shown us during the past year.

And we cannot let this opportunity pass without thanking the Street Railway Company, on behalf of the members
of the Fire Department, for the continued privilege of riding
on the company’s cars when on duty.

Respectfully,
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB, |
GEORGE J. PREW,
JAMES H. O’CONNELL,
Holyoke Fire Commissioners.

, REPORT OF THE |
Gas and Electric Department.
@
a City oF HoLtyoxsk, Mass.
OFFICE OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
December .
\
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen:
GENTLEMEN: hand you herewith the sixth annual re: port of the Gas and Electric Department.
Notwithstanding the dull times, caused by the business
depression and the shortness of water during the past year,
the business of the department has shown fair increase in
volume, the send-out from the gas works being eleven and two- 
tenths per cent larger than for  while that from the electric station was nine and nine-tenths per cent larger. The ,
income from the latter is materially less than for  but
when it is considered that the reduction in the price of current
- for lighting took approximately  out-of the receipts of
the station, the fact that they were only about  less than
for the vear before is cause for congratulation.
For the gas works, the usual repairs have been made, both
at the works and upon the pipes in the streets, while at the
works there were some extraordinary repairs necessary upon
the No.  gas holder. The two lower courses of sheets and bottom curb became so weakened from the wear due to old age, |
that that part of the holder had to be completely rebuilt. That
item made the repair account abnormally large. There was
added to the works turbine engine and blower for the water
gas sets. There was added to the street mains feet of

  GAS AND ELECTEIC DEPARTMENT. |
pipe, making the total mileage of mains miles. Six
hundred and four gas meters have been set during the year,
making total of meters in service. Of that number  are ‘‘prepays’’ and are ‘‘regulars.’’

At the station extensive additions and alterations have
been in progress during the year. The work was so large it
 was impossible to finish before the dark weather of the fall
came on. Owing to the fact that the water wheels could not
be used it was unsafe to shut down and move the old installation. One hundred and sixty thousand dollars were appropriated to the department for this work, and the wisdom of
the move has already been shown. There has already been a
load of about horse power upon the station, while with
the old equipment alone, only about horse power could
have been maintained. There have been added to the equipment one K. W. turbo-generator with the necessary condensing apparatus, four horse power B. W. boilers with
Murphy stokers and the fans, flues and stack for induced
draft. There will be added coal and ash handling apparatus.
One addition to the buildings of feet has been
made together with raising the roofs upon two of the buildings. Of the rearrangements of apparatus planned, the  
K. W. turbine has been moved. The K. W. turbine together with the six Manning boilers have yet to be moved.
There is probably two months’ work left yet before the work
started will be finished. With all the additions and alterations
. made, the city will own an electric station that it may be
proud of.
The business of the station seems destined to grow substantially during the next few years. There were new cus tomers taken on the past year, an increase of per cent.
There were meters added, gain of per cent.
There were seven and three-fourths miles of wire strung in the
streets and forty-six poles set.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT. of
The following tables present data from the records of the
‘gas works:
| Gas distributed, cubic feet,. , 
Coal earbonized, tons, ... ..  
Gas oil used, gallons, ...  
. Coke made, bushels, ..  
Coke used in retort house, bushels, Boe  Coke used in water gas generator, bushels,.  
Coke sold, bushels,. ..  
Tar made, gallons,. ...  
Tar sold, gallons, ...  
GAS MAINS.
Laid in  .
  inch, feet
Wy, feet
yy, SS
 ‘
 ‘S
 *f
 ‘* ‘
 ‘‘ “‘
  ‘
  “é ‘‘
  “
  “‘
  feet feet
| Making miles of mains laid.

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
GAS SERVICES RUN.
Winch, OT
 ee
;  Ca, “é  
GAS METERS. |
  light meters in use December   ors  Gé  ce os eé 
.  oe Gc ‘sé ars   Ge eé oe oe .ee Ge Ge  
:   ce ce ors éé éé éeé  ra éé cé oe  
|  
Regular meters in use December Cook,  
Prepay €é  
.  
Regular meters in use December 
Prepay   
Gain in number of meters or per cent.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT. 
PERMANENT EMPLOYES.
Superintendent, Ca  

Inspectors,ee ,
Clerk, a,  
Meter and complaint man,.  
Foremen at works, .:. )
Foremen on street work, .  
Stokers,  ...  ee
Water gas helpers,. s.  
Coke men,  
: Purifier helpers,. ..  
Street men,.  ... eR  
Firemen, eRe  
a,  

Net price of gas,  per thousand feet.

The following tables present data from the records of the
electric station: ,
Current sent out, kilowatts,  
Total number of customers,. ..  

- Power customers, ...  
Miles of wires in streets, ...  ,
Poles in streets,. OU,  
Transformers in use,   
Meters in use,  
Street arc lamps, ... 
Commercial are lamps,. .. ,
  C. P. street incandescent lamps,. C. P. street incandescent lamps,. C. P. street incandescent lamps,.  ..  ,
Tons of steam coal used, ..).  

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
| PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
Superintendent,  ...  
Clerk,  ... a,  
Foreman,  ee
Engineers,  wee  
Oilers,  ...  
Firemen,  ...  ,  
Switchboard men, .  
Trimmers,  
Line and repair men, ..  
Laborers,  ...    
Net price of electricity cents per K. W.
The following is the financial statement of the depart- |
ment:
WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER
  .
EXPENSES. .
Coal  ... 
Oil, Co  
Supplies, .. ..  
Repairs, Ce  
Water power rental, ...  
Payroll, Be  
Office expenses,. ...  
Insurance, ...  
Miscellaneous, ..  
———— 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT. |
Bad debts,  
Interest, Doe  
Depreciation, ...  
——§—§  
| 
Profit and loss,. ., ..  
oe 
INCOME.
Gas and electricity,.  
Coke andtar ... ,
——————$ .
BALANCE SHEET, NOVEMBER .
. ASSETS. :
Plants, Nov. 
Additions and extensions,  
$  }
Less bond premiums received, |
$  .
Less depreciation,  
———$ 
Supplies,  
Coke andtar,  
Gas delivered, not billed,  
Book accounts,  |
——————$  .
,  

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
LIABILITIES.
City of Holyoke, cash 
invested in plants to
date,   ,
Accounts payable,  
——————$ 
Depreciation fund,  
Profit and loss,.  
——————-$  GAS WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NO| VEMBER .
, EXPENSES.
Coal, .*. . 
Oi,.  ... 
Supplies, .).  
Repairs, re  
Water power rental, 
Payroll,. .).  
Office expenses,. ..  
Insurance,  
Miscellaneous, ..  
, 
Bad debts,   ,
Interest, Cee  
Depreciation,  
+  
| 
Profit and loss, . 
$ 
INCOME.
Gas, oe  
Coke and tar,  
———— 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
ELECTRIC WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
: EXPENSES.
Col, $  ,
Oiland waste, ...  
Supphes, ...  
Repairs, re  
Water power rental, ..  
Payroll, re  
Office expenses,. ...  
Insurance, .
Miscellaneous, ...  
———§—§§  
Bad debts, §  
Interest, Bee  
Depreciation, ..  
| —————$  
$ 
Profit and loss,. ..  
| 
INCOME.
Electricity,. .). 
PE Se

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT, |
BALANCE SHEET, NOVEMBER ,
. ASSETS. ,
Gas works, cost Nov.
  ,.   .
Additions and extensions, .
$ 
Less depreciation,  
—————$  
Supplie,  
Coke andtar, ... ,
Gas delivered, not billed, |
Book accounts, ..  
—————§  
. ——————$  
Electric plant, cost Nov.
| ,  |
Additions and extensions,  
} 
Less bond premiums re  @elved, .. :
$ 
Less depreciation,  
——————§ |
Supplies,  
Book accounts, ..  
—————$  
——————§$  :
$ 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
LIABILITIES.
City of Holyoke, cash 
invested in plants to
date,  
Accounts payable,  
—————$ 
Depreciation, ...  
Profit and loss,. 
$ 
Respectfully submitted, |
WILLIAM H. SNOW, Manager.
Examined and approved,
December .
WALTER W. EATON,
Public Accountant.

Digitized by Google

REPORT OF THE
Department of Police.
OFFICE OF THE CITY MARSHAL.

Houyoxe, Mass, December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of the

City of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the City Ordinance,
I have the honor herewith to submit for your consideration
the annual report of this department for the year ending November .

ORGANIZATION.

The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal, Captain, Lieutenant, Four Sergeants, Matron and fifty
Patrolmen, two of whom are doing special duty, and two are
detailed for house duty.

ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  .

NAME. RANK. DATE OF APPOINTMENT.
Thomas J. Lynch, Marshal, May 
Patrick Herbert, Assistant Marshal, January 
Timothy Haley, Captain, February 
Patrick E. Sullivan, Lieutenant, January 
Dennis Mack, Sergeant, May 
William E. Blackmer, Sergeant, January 
George L. Dickinson, Sergeant, February 
John J. Moriarty, Sergeant, February 
Peter A. Cullen, Special Duty, February 
Frank R. Metcalf, Special Duty, February 
John A. Powers, House Duty, January 
Cornelius Curran, House Duty, February 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. 
NAME. RANK. —sCODATE OF APPOINTMENT.
, Michael Shine, Patrolman, April 
Richard Peters, January 
Thomas F. Riley, January 
Henry J. Campbell,  January  
Michael J. Lynch, rf January 
Frank M. Priest, ce, January 
Patrick F. Ryan, rf January 
Frank J. Gallagher, ‘* January 
Francis H. Hastings, ‘f January 
John A. Geran, January 
James B. Griffin, February 
Jeremiah J. Linnehan,  February 
Patrick J. Reardon, .* February 
John A. Vachon, June 
James T. Donoghue, June 
Rock H. Lalonde, ‘f June 
Maurice M. O’Connor, June 
Thomas Bresnahan, June  .
Maurice H. Shine, August 
Matthew McClellan, August 
Henry M. Fisher, ‘* August 
Daniel C. McCarthy, September 
| Richard E. Lowcock, rf March 
William J. Carey, ‘f February 
Michael Driscoll, sf February 
Peter J. Manning, February 
Patrick J. Kennedy, February 
Walter E. Murray, rf May 
Edward F. Gilday, July 
. James Malcolm, July 
Patrick J. Driscoll,  July 
Thomas J. Rourke, “s July 
Patrick J. Gaughan,  July 
Andre J. Senay, March 
Albert Mew, ré June 

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
NAME. RANK. DATE OF APPOINTMENT. |

John J. O’Donnell, Patrolman, June  ;
Maxwell McDowell, August 
James T. Welch, *é January 
John J. Grady, ‘f February 
| Henry Sussenguth, October 
Michael J. Clifford, February 
Michael P. Conroy, February 
Medric Beloin,  February 

| John E. Goss,  March  |
George W. O’Connell, April 
Michael J. Prendergast,  October 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Matron, April 

STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
Total number of arrests;   
Males, Boe  
Females, Coe kk  
ARRESTS WERE MADE FOR THE FOLLOWING OFFENSES.

Assault, ... wee  
Assault with dangerous weapon, re  
Assault on an officer, wee  
Assault with intent to commit robbery, ...  
Abortion, Be  
Acting as insurance agent without license, took  
Attempt to ravish, ..).  
Attempt to commit arson, re  
Attempt to commit lareeny, ....  
Breaking and entering, ..  
Breach of the peace, ...  
Bastardy, .. ...ee,  
, Cruelty toanimals, .)  
Carrying dangerous weapon, ...  
Disturbing.a religious meeting, ...  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

Drunkenness,  |
Delinquent child, re  )
Disturbing the peace, Be  
Dipsomaniac, .  
Fornieation,  
Giving short measure, re  
Indecent exposure of person, ...  
Keeping house of illfame, ..  
Larceny from building, Co  
Larceny from the person, re  
Lareeny, Ce  
Murder,  ... a,  
Manslaughter, Ce I
Malicious mischief, .  
Malicious injury to personal property, ...  
Non-support, Ca  
“Neglected child,a,  
Operating cinematograph without license, ..  
Peddling without license,  
Ringing false fire alarm, ..  
Receiving stolen goods, ...  

Stubbornness, Ca, ;
Sureties of the peace, Ck  
Truancy, Bk,  
Unlawfully taking team,  
Violation of bu er law, re  
Violation of oleomargarine law, ...  
| Violation of milk law, Ck  
Violation of dog law, re  
Violation of game law, .  
Vagrancy, Ck,  
Violation of city ordinances, ..  
Walking on railroad track, ..).  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Appealed, Se ek  
Bound over to the Superior Court, ..  
Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment of fine, )
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory, ...  
| Committed to the Massachusetts Hospital for Dipsomaniacs, wee  
Committed to the Lyman School for boys, 
Committed to the Hampden County Truant School, 
Committed to the care of the State Board of Charity,  
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory Prison, ..  
Committed to the Industrial School at Lancester, ..  
Discharged,    
Fined and paid, Be,  
Probated and discharged, re  
Placed on file, Ca,  
Released, Ca  
AGES.
Under years, Boe   
WWandunder .  amd under  .  |
dd) and under  OO, and under ea,  
opand under  .  and under  .- ea  
:  
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED.
America, ... 
Austria,  ...  
Belgium,  
Canada,  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
Denmark,  ...  
England,     
Franee, 
Gre, ...  
Germany, Ca,  
Hungary, Ck  )
Ireland,     
Italy, Ce
India, Ce,  
Newfoundland, ...  ).  
Prinee Edward’s Island, ...  
Poland,  ...  
Russia, wee  
Scotland,  
Sweden,  
Turkey, ...  
Wales,  
| |
NUMBER OF ARRESTS EACH MONTH.
December,   ...  
January,  .  —
February,   ... ee,  
March,  Ca  
April,  ... 
May,   ...  
June, .-.  ... AD
July, ...  
August,  Ca,  
September,  Ca,  
October,  ...  
November,  . 
|  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OE POLICE.  
| ‘
sigiz|Ziel 's| /s\ 
Sot Role hal bee nernee en nen nea
Si gl s|Bla)   
o fo)
gf  /  &
Assault.........-ec ce  
Assault with dangerous
WEAPOM. ce    erence] Lpeccsfeccefo fo tosccte |sscclsves|scscfenecei seas}
Assault on an officer........} ]-..-} ]....) f....]....-{  
Assault with intent to com- :
mit robbery......  ... ec fe ) QD fe fececfeccele [ecec[eccelecsc[escelesee esse]  
Abortion...      eel eens! QD feceafe ]ecce|eese|eevelecceleces|sces[sccsle]  
Acting aS insurance agent
without license....... odie Pras (Ps rs ar De jee  
Attempt to ravish.......... es Oe ees ere es eses re Oe Ps |
Attempt to commit larceny..].... ....)eccefe[ ec eelececpce[ececteree| Li feweelel  
Attempt to commit arson...| |....fef.. cc fee eelew cel e|e lecec|ecce{sees}/ ]  
Breaking and entering......| bs  ee 
Breach of the peace........]....| |-..-]....] ]....] |----l....| 
, Bastardy......     eelececle eef a]  i----}  
Cruelty to animals..........[..c )eccedecoed se  le {e| ccele leoee| LT ]..../--.e]  
Carrying dangerous weapon|....|...-f----[--.-]  lecce[e lescclececie|  
Disturbing religious meet-  
Drunkenness............... in   
Delinquent child...  ... ole cele     oc celecec{ecce[e l 
Disturbing the peace.......[----)  ]....]-.-.[....)..--] ]....] ]-.../  
Dipsomania.......  cfe| fe fe ]e lecesleccele leces|sccefececle|  
Fornication...  ...  cc  ec fec cal ec se|ecce| fe liccslevcclecscleccs{ecce( Q
Giving short measure.......|....}....[....[..cc}eccele| fa leleccele le!  
Indecent exposure of person]....!....]....J....] j./ ] L| le.ce] LDd ,  
Keeping house of ill famej....}....] [.cc.fecce lee ce [ [eccef cenccleccele]  
Larceny from building....]....[....]...-] [o l]ecec]e lececl (ececfeces; .
Larceny from the person....{ [...-fee yf LD [e tcc  le {eces|ceccteccs 
Larceny........ssec -|   
Murder...    cc ele cect ececfeccafe fecsclecce|fe {eccsicoce| LD {owes}  
Manslaughter......... [. | [occe]ecceleccelecec{eccale[e leccefel  
Malicious mischief.........]  '|....!....]....]  ---| seset |  
Malicious injury to personal
Pproperty........ -. ee] LZ d fe ]e weeee lec cele cele   ones reese -|  
Non-support............ .--|  f...-]....] )..../ |. 
Neglected child............./  ]....]  /...-) ....!  
Operating Cinematograph !
without license.......{.. ccfehee fl beefeet feces J
Peddling without license.. wees]  an PI (Pa (a Oe
Ringing false fire alarm...|....).cc.)o [ecec]e (  leccel |eccs a]  
Receiving stolen goods...... map wecefeccefel , Dl Lleeselsfejs !  
Stubbornness......... .- .-] Li -]| L]e..e[i... j--+-; 
Sureties of the peace......../....)....]....].. [  vee] edee|
Truancy........c ] pesos? LD fed Liteeseti ]e lacesl | [ee  
Unlawfully taking team..|  ....[ ].... tetel  , bees SPIE vee] 
Violation of butter law...... ........]....]....    fees wecelesceiccecfe cone]  
Violation of oleomargarine ,
Violation of game law......).... ...[ Lie )eie  feces veel L[ec   
Violation of milk law......]..../.... |....[.... sete fenea fesse leven cae ]  
Violation of dog law......[........|...e/ c)o loc ete     leene!  
Vagrancy...... sees seen   |  
Violation city ordinance.....]  ..i....[----{...-]  ... ..../ 
Walking on railroad track.. eye ....|  
| :
j  
. e

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
. By
Disposition of Cases Before the Police Court for  .
  gis Ba]
|
B/E)  
Sle /al\ ei bl} se ei  es) Bis!) Blo
ror 
Aa;siei Si zjei !s)/|/  djal®
Appealed.......      lenes  j----} do Qi....)  }  ot  
Bound over to Superior Court] U....]...-j.---/ 
Committed to House of Correction for non-payment
: of fine..........-..+-.-/   
Committed to the House of
Correction............-.   
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory......]....  ]... Q\..-.  j.... 
Committed to the Massachusetts Hospital for Dipso- |
erat GO
Committed to the Lyman .
School for Boys........[....Je| Ql ee]   ewer [ec cel accel sccelele[ ]  
Committed to the Hampden
County Truant School. .}....)....)...e  ] pee eefefelele|  Qle-e-]  
Committed to the care of the
State Board of Charity..  .... Qi....].... ]....]....].--.|  
Committed to the Woman’s
Reformatory Prison.....  |....  |.... es Oe  
Committed to the Industrial |
 School at Lancaster.....) df....]....]..../.- e]. al..../ at af....  
Discharged..............---|   
; Fined and paid.............]  
Probated and discharged....|   lj...-| 
Placed on file............../  
Released.  +... --+    .  
TOTAL   
e

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. ri)
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY THE POLICE.
Number of children found and restored to parents, /
Number of lodgers accommodated, ...  
Number of meals furnished prisoners,. 
Number of buildings found open and unsecured,  
Number of dead bodies found, ..  
Number of fire alarms given, re  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms, ..  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported. ..  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted,  
Number of stray teamstaken up, .-. .. 
Number of street lamps reported not lighted. 
Number of arrests for other cities,  
Number of warrants for liquor served,.  
Number of bicycles reported stolen and not recovered,  
Number of bicyeles stolen and recovered, ..  
Number of bicycles found and returned to owners,  
Number of safe doors found open, ,
Number of dogs shot, a, ,
Number of defective sidewalks reported,  
Number of defective catch-basins reported,  
Number of insane persons cared for, ..  
Number of dipsomaniacs committed to Foxboro, ..  
Number of notices served, Co  
* Value of property stolen, toe   
Value of property recovered,  
Amount of money reported stolen.   
Amount of money recovered, toe

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT FOR THE
YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
Abortion, 
Assault, 
Drunkenness, Ca,  
Disturbing the peace, re  
F'ornication, Be |
Keeping ahouse of illfame, ...  
Larceny, Ca,  
Neglected child,  ...  
Stubbornness, Ca,  
Vagrancy,  
-  
Insane, wa  
Lodgers, ... ee,  
Detained,  we  
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
| Appealed, Be  
Bound over to the Superior Court, rn|
Committed to the House of Correction, Coe  
Committed to House of Correction for non-payment of
fine, Ce,  
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory prison,  
Committed to the Industrial School at Lancaster, ..  
Committed to the State Board of Charity,  
Discharged, Ce  
Placed on file.  ...  
Fined and paid, Ce  
Probated and discharged, re  
Released, Ck  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  

While the number of arrests in my department is much
smaller than last year, regret to report large number of
young girls who have been brought before the Court for stubbormnness and vagrancy. Eight have been committed to the

. Laneaster Industrial school for girls, and seven have been
placed in the care of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd at
Springfield.

I desire to thank the Marshal and his assistants, also the
members of the force for their courtesy and assistance in my
work.

Respectfully submitted,
KATE MOYNIHAN, |
Police Matron. ,
THE FOLLOWING IS THE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL
SYSTEM.
Duty calls from patrolmen, ..  
Telephone calls, weeee  
. Wagon ealls, days,  wt.  
Wagon ealls, nights, Ce  
Miles run, .  
FINANCIAL REPORT.  
Total appropriation,  
Receipts from Police Court, ow lhl)  
Receipts from Hampden County, Cooke  
Receipts from all other sources,  
| 
EXPENDITURES.
Pay roll,ee   
Miscellaneous expenses, ..  
$ 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

In compliance with provision of the Charter, respectfully recommend an appropriation for the ensuing year of
$ oe

‘ITEMS.
Appropriation, . 
. Estimated receipts,   
$ 
Pay roll, Boe
Miscellaneous expenses, .. 
$ 

CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.

RESIGNED.

Patrolman Thomas E. Bligh, resigned Mareh ,
appointed February :

Patrolman John W. Vaugh, resigned May appointed June .

, Patrolman John Leary, resigned October appointed May .
APPOINTED. |

Michael J. Clifford, appointed patrolman, February  ,
 .

Michael P. Conroy, appointed patrolman, February  ,
 .
Medrie Beloin, appointed patrolman, February .

John E. Goss, appointed patrolman, March .

George W. O’Connell, appointed patrolman, April  ,
 .

Michael J. Prendergast, appointed patrolman, October
  |

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. ,
PROMOTIONS. |

Patrolman Dennis Mack, promoted to sergeant, March
  .

Patrolman William E. Blackmer, promoted to sergeant,
Mareh .

Patrolman George L. Diekinson, promoted to sergeant,
March ;

Patrolman John J. Moriarty, promoted to sergeant,
March .

In the early part of the year an ordinance was passed
creating the office of sergeant of police and officers Dennis
Mack, William E. Blackmer, George L. Dickinson and John J.
Moriarty were appointed to the positions. Three of these officers are on duty nights, one with the six o’clock detail who
cares for the district below the canal and who is on duty until
three a. m., one with the seven o’clock detail whose territory
is above the canal and who is on duty until four a. m., the

: third is detailed with the dog watch, whose duties include all .
parts of the city, beginning at twelve a. m. and ending at
eight a.m. The fourth sergeant performs duty in the office
during the day. The result obtained from the work of these
officers is exdingly gratifying and proves the wisdom of
adopting the ordinance. |

Last spring motor cycle was purchased by the department and Officer Reardon was assigned to ride the same with
instructions to prevent as far as possible the excessive speeding of automobiles through the streets. The officer sucded |
in diminishing the speed of motor vehicles to very considerable extent, and he has also been able to cover much territory
in suburban districts. Between June and November  he
covered miles. The motor eycle cost one hundred and
eighty dollars, and the cost of running it from June to December was believe the purchase of another
motor cycle would make valuable addition to the department.

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
The detective bureau of this department is conducted by
Officers Peter A. Cullen and Frank R. Metcalf, who are assigned by the Marshal to do special work, and under the able
guidance of Assistant Marshal Herbert have performed the
duties assigned to them in faithful and efficient manner.
| This branch of the service which in the past has had three
: officers assigned to it has been without the assistance of the
third man for the past year, for the reason that the law granted
each officer in the department one day off each month, reducing the efficiency of the department by at least two men.
I again desire to express my appreciation of the ever
courteous treatment accorded me by His Honor, the Mayor,
and the Judge and Clerk of the Police Court, as well as the
rank and file of this department for the ready assistance rendered me at all times in the performance of my duty.
Respectfully submitted, /
THOMAS J. LYNCH,
City Marshal.

REPORT OF
; Crry HAL. ,
Ho.yoKE, Mass., DECEMBER .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Aldermen:
GENTLEMEN :—I have the honor to present to you the annual report for the fiscal year  .
Balance on hand December , 
Total receipts during fiscal year, 
  
Total payments during fiscal year  
Balance on hand November too.  
$ 
@
' RECEIPTS.
-The amounts credited and charged to various accounts
are as follows:  
Alleys, Ce, 
Board of Health, ..).,  
City Property,.  
Contingent, Ce  
Fire,  .) ee,  
Gas and Electric,   
Highways and Bridges, re  
Janitors, Ca  

  REFORT OF CITY TREASURER. ;
Parks,  ... wee  
Pohee,  ee,  
Relief, ww  
Schools, Ck  
Sewers, Ce  
. Sidewalks,  
‘Street watering, re  
Interest on daily balances, ..  
Dividend on Holyoke and W. R. R. stock,  
Interest Water Debt, ..).  
Taxes on Water Works, Be  
State aid, Civil War, ..  
| Corporation Tax, .  
Street railway tax, .  
National bank tax, Be  
Whiting Street Fund,  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  
Permanent Highways, ..  
Sealer of weights and measures, ...  
City Hall rental, ...  
Liquor Licenses, ...  
, Miseellaneous Licenses, re  
Dogtax,. .. 
IncomeeCemetery Fund, ..  
Temporary loans,   :
Municipal Sinking Fund Commission,. ..  
Interest taxes  re  
Interest taxes  d, Ce  
Interest taxes  ...  
Interest taxes  Ce  
Holyoke Street Railroad tax,  ,. 
Interest taxes,  ,. we,  
Sidewalks  Ce,  
Sidewalks  re  
, Sidewalks ... ee,  
Sidewalks  Ck  

, REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
Sidewalks  .).  
Sidewalks  Coe  
Sewer assessments   

Sewer assessments  ..  
Sewer assessments   
Sewer assessments   
Taxes  Be  
Taxes  Ce  
Taxes  
Taxes  Cooke    
| Taxes  Coeee 
Sewer Loan, Ce  
Municmal Loan, Ce  
School Loan, .).  
Public Park Loan,. ..  
' Gas and Electric Loan,. .-.  

Armory, Ce, :
Permanent Sewers, Coe  
$ 

Cash on hand December   |
$ 

PAYMENTS.

Alleys,  ...   
Assessors, 
Board of Health,  
Board of Public Works, contingent, 
Board of Public Works, salaries,  ..  
City Engimeer,. ..).  
City Property, re  
Contingent, Co,  
Fire,  ... ee,  
Fuel,  ...  
Gas and Electric,  ).  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Gas and Electric Interest, ..  
Gas and Electric Extension,  
| Gas and Electric Renewals and Extension,  
Highways and Bridges, ..  
- f§anitors,  
Janitors’ supplies, .  
Parks,  
Police,     
Relief,  ... wee  
Salaries, Coe  
Soldiers’ relief, Co  
Sehools,.  .) hehe)  
Sewers,.    
Sidewalks, OO  
Street Watering, .  
Interest on city debt,  
, Interest on temporary loans,  
Interest on Holyoke W. R. R. stock,  ..  
Interest, water debt, ..  
lighting, 
Military aid, Civil War, .. 
, Military aid, Spanish War,. ..  
State aid, Civil war, wee  
State aid, Spanish war,. ...  
Public library,. .).  
County tax,.  
State tax, 
Corporation tax, .'.  
National bank tax,.  
Whiting Street Fund, ..  
| Permanent highways,  
Highland Engine House,  
Fire engine, .  
Ward School House,.  
Jackson street underpass, ..  
City yard,  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
Abatements, Skee  
Liquor licenses,. ..  
Water rent,.  ...  
Soldiers’ burial, re  
Income cemetery fund,. ..  
Temporary loans,   
City debt direct, .  
City debt gas and electric,. ..  
Municipal sinking fund commission, ...  
School house sanitaries,.  
Armory, Be  
Permanent sidewalks,  
Oakdale school,. .. |
Permanent sewers, .  
$ 
Cash on hand November  , 
oO 
BALANCE SHEET NOVEMBER .
Dr.
Holyoke Water Works, ... 
Gas and Electric Department, ..  
Gas and Electric Plant, ...  
Real estate (as valued by the Assessors), .. wee  
Holyoke Westfield Railroad stock
(par value),  
Water Works Sinking Fund Commission, ele  ) 
Municipal Sinking Fund Commission,ele  
—————  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  
Cemetery funds deposit,. ..  
General receipt account,. ..  
Thomas J. Dillon, collector taxes
 . 
Thomas J. Dillon, collector taxes
.  ,: we  
Thomas J. Dillon, collector taxes
-   ).  
Thomas J. Dillon, collector taxes
   
Thomas J. Dillon, collector taxes . 
, ————  
Sidewalk assessments  ,. .. 
Sidewalk assessments  ,. ...  
Sidewalk assessments    |
Sidewalk assessments   
——.  
Sewer assessments  ,. ... 
Sewer assessments   
Sewer assessments   
| ————  
Cashonhand,  
$ 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER. ST
CR.
Assessors, ... 
Fire department, ... ;
Jackson street underpass, |
Oakdale school,. . 
School house sanitaries,.  
, Highways, per construction,. ...  
Sidewalks, per construction,.  
Sewers, per construction,  
——————— 
Parks,   
Gas and electric renewals and extension, re  
City debt, , 
City debt, special,   |
; ———  
City debt, gas and electric plant, 
City debt, Holyoke Water Works, :
City debt, Holyoke and Westfield :
Railroad stock, . 
————  
Temporary loans, ...  
Municipal Sinking Fund, ...  
Holyoke Water Works Sinking Fund,  
Overlayings, ne  
Whiting Street fund, ...  
Cemetery funds, 
| Sewer assessments,  
Sidewalk assessments, 
———  
City of Holyoke, ...  
$  ,
‘Showing the aggregate amount maturing each year.

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER. |
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS.—Exhibit B.
Showing the aggregate amount maturing each year.
Payable Hol. W. Water Gas and |
in R. R. Stock Works Electric City Debt Diréct Total

  *$ +$  *$   ,  +t     *   ++  ++   |
 ++  |
 +{                                     -*     
Totals,  

*Serial Bonds.

+ To be met by Sinking Fund.

+ Exempted by special acts of the Legislature.

e@

  A. nr ron n mnnemenenenmmananaiid  ere.  

| ;
] ,

$ 

 

.  

 

 

|  

 

,  

 

 

 

}  

:  

 

 

 

 

 

|  

 

oo  

;  

| 

 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER. |
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS.—F
Showing the aggregate amount maturing
Payable Hol. W. Water Gas and
in R. R. Stock Works Electric City Debt
  *$  +$   tt    +{  +t     ,  ,
 ,
      -* 
Totals,  
*Serial Bonds.
+ To be met by Sinking Fund.
t+ Exempted by special acts of the Legislature.
| |
|
b

e
REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE.
Valued by the Board of Assessors in  .
SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND LAND.
ck Sehools:

Lyman and Center streets,. 
East Dwight and Center streets, ..  
West street, ..  
Ylamilton street,  
Morgan school (Bridge street),.  
Sargeant street,  
Hamilton and Park streets,.  
Main and Papineau streets,.  
Elm street, weee te  
Maple and Appleton streets, ..  
Sargeant and Chestnut streets, woe  

Pine, Sargeant, Bh and Hampshire
streets,   
Carlton street, we  
School street, ..  
Carlton and South streets,  
Nonotuck street,  ..).  
Nonotuck, Lincoln, Waldo and Allyn streets,  
(‘hestnut street, Ce  
Ingleside,  .) 
West Holyoke,. .).  

len School:

Templestreet,  ..  
School house lot (Sargeant street), 
$ 

i
  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER. ts |
 |
Shx |
Payable Hol.
in R. R.
  ,
 ,
  ;
  .
  :
  .
  |
  !
 
Totals, 
*Serial Bo
+ To be mé
tExe

*.
REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE. |
Valued by the Board of Assessors in  .
SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND LAND.
Brick Schools:

Lyman and Center streets,. 
East Dwight and Center streets,  
West street, .  
‘Hamilton street,  
Morgan school (Bridge street),.  
Sargeant street,  
Hamilton and Park streets,.  
Main and Papineau streets,.  
Elm street, weeee.  
Maple and Appleton streets,  
Sargeant and Chestnut streets, oe  

Pine, Sargeant, Bh and Hampshire
streets,ee lee  
Carlton street, Be  
School street,  ...  
Carlton and South streets, ..  
Nonotuck street,  ..).  
Nonotuck, Lincoln, Waldo and Allyn streets,  
Chestnut street,  
Ingleside,  
' West Holyoke,. ..).  

Wooden School:
Templestreet,   
School house lot (Sargeant street),  
| 
b 

 |
  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
ENGINE HOUSES AND LAND.
Engine Houses: |
: Chestnut street, toe   
Canal street,   ).  
Main street, .)  
South street, ...  
High street, Ou.  
Hampden street, ...  
Temple street, .).  
$ 
MISCELLANEOUS.
City Hall building, High and Dwight streets, 
Hillside Hospital, Jarvis avenue, ..  
City Farm, house and barn, Ingleside...  
Barn and sheds, Commercial street, 
, 
' PARKS.
Hampden Park, Hampden, Maple, Chestnut and
Dwight streets,.  
Prospect Park, Prospect street,.   |
Canonchet Park, Bowers, Samosett, West and Pequot streets, .). :
Hamilton Park, Sargeant street,  :
Germania Park, Bridge, Park and Jackson
Sstreets,. ... 
Ranger Park, Appleton and Suffolk streets,  
Ewing Park, Appleton, Pleasant and Dwight
streets, Co  
Coglan Park, Crescent and Park streets, ..  
Elmwood Park, Elmwood, .. 
Springdale Park, Main street,  
Laurel and Willow Street Triangle, Cook,  
|  ;

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
LAND. 
Jefferson street, Be,  
Berkshire, Race and Hancock streets,  
Pearl street and Madison avenue, ...  
Jefferson street and Madison avenue, ...  
Jefferson street and Madison avenue, ....  
Madison avenue and Pearl street,  
East side of Pearl street,  
Madison avenue and Pearl street,  
East and West side Pleasant street, west of din- |

gle, Ce  

Gravel pit (Ingleside),. ..  
$ 
; School buildings and land, oo. le)»  §$ 
Engine houses and land, ..  
Miscellaneous, . 
Parks, . 
Land, 
Total value of real estate,  .$ 
- Respectfully submitted,
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,

City Treasurer.

I hereby certify that have examined the accounts of the
Treasurer of the City of Holyoke for the year ending November and find same to be correct. have verified the
balance sheet of November showing cash on hand at
that date amounting to .

 WALTER W. EATON,
Public Accountant.

REPORT OF THE
Dealer of Weights and
Measures.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN :—I have the honor to present to you the
third annual report of the Sealer of Weights and Measures Department of the City of Holyoke, for the fiscal year ending

| November .

I wish to thank the city officials, the manufacturers and
merchants for the courteous manner in which have been received by all, in the discharge of my duties. detailed report of the work performed and inventory of the office equipment is herewith presented.

JOS. D. GODDU,
Sealer.

"REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.  
Sealed Adjusted Condemned Total
Platform scales over Ibs.,  
Platform seales under Ibs.  
: Counter scales, !
Butcher scales, 
Spring scales,  
Beam scales,  
Ice scales,  
Computing on scales,  
Penny weighing scales, 
Weights,  
Dry measures,  
Liquid measures,  
Milk jars,  
Ice cream ecans,  
Ice cream boxes,  
Oil cans,  
Yard sticks,  
Baskets,  
Whiskey flasks,  
Reweighing coal,  
,  
Fees collected and handed over to City Treasurer, 
Fees due the department November :
Total earned by the department, 
EQUIPMENT.
One buillion balance.
One Massachusetts standard balance in good condition.
Two sealers’ trying balances in good condition.
Nickel plated weights (avoirdupois),  -lb.,  -lb.,  -lb.,  -Ib.,  -lb.,  -Ib. Two sets brass weights (avoirdupois)  -lb. to  -oz., in
good condition.

  REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. .
Squaré cast-iron weights (avoirdupois),  -lb., in good
condition.
Brass weights (avoirdupois),  -lb.,  -lb.,  -lb., :
 -lb.,  -lb.,  z.,  z.
Troy block weights,  -oz. to  -gr. }
Grain weights,  -gr. to  -gr.
One kilogram in cherry box.
One steel meter in box.
One brass yard standard in box in good condition.
| One brass yard measure in good condition.
Two  -ft. tapes.
; One set Massachusetts standard iron dry measures.
Two sets wooden dry measures,  -quarts to  -quart.
One set nickel plated liquid measures,  -gallon to  -gill.
One set brass liquid measures,  -gallon to  -gill.
One mahogany box for liquid measures in good condition.
One upright drill in fair condition.
One kit of tools and wooden box for same.
One kit of tools and leather case for same.
One water power emery wheel. |
One hundred pounds rod lead.
One reading glass.
One handbag in fair condition.
, One counter seale in good condition.
One bushel basket. ,
One cabinet and eards for card system.
One basket seal in good condition.
One desk.
Five office chairs.
One clock.
One hand truck.
Ten graduates.
One spring seale in good condition. .

REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.  
One map. One badge. One pencil sharpener. One typewriter in good condition. Three weighing stands. Seven
hooks. One brass measuring rule. One typewriter stand.
Two tin dry measures. One vise. One hot blast stove and
wooden box for the same. Three tin funnels. One paper
mache funnel. Rubber stamps. Steel dies. Seals, (paper
and lead). Books and stationery.


REPORT OF
Sinking Fund Commissioners.
HOLYoKE, Mass., November .
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen of the

City of Holyoke, Mass.:

The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund for the payment
of Municipal Bonds, respectfully submit the following report:
Amount of fund reported Novem| ber eo. 
Received during year:
From City Treasurer:
Account Water Commissioners, 
Account Holyoke Westfield
Railroad, dividend, 

Account appropriation,  

Interest on investments, ...  
———---—  
) 
Paid during the year: |
To the City Treasurer, to pay an
issue of bonds falling due
September .. 
Amount of fund this date, 
Invested as follows:
Municipal bonds, 
Loans on real estate, ..  
Cash deposited at interest, 
, ————— 
Respectfully submitted,
C. FAYETTE SMITH,
| LEMUEL SEARS,
 SAMUEL McQUAID,
Commissioners of Sinking Fund.

REPORT OF THE }
Overseers of the Poor.
RELIEF DEPARTMENT. |
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen:

In accordance with the charter and revised ordinance of ‘
the city, the Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit their
thirty-fourth annual report, it being for the fiscal year ending
November .

Owing to the scarcity of work among our people during
the past year, the department has been called upon to aid many

. able-bodied persons who usually are self-supporting and will
be so when the business conditions will be such that there will
be work for all. The net increase in expense for the department was  or per cent greater than that of the

year  while there was an increase of five hundred and
twenty-three persons or per cent more aided during the

| year. This we believe, after taking all conditions into consid- .

eration, makes good showing for the department.

During the year there were persons, representing

/ six hundred and seventy-six families, aided by the department
against persons, representing five hundred and fifty families aided during the year  This is an increase of about
  per cent, an increase never before experienced in any one

- year. Not alone had this great increase to be met, but many
of those already being aided had to have their allowance increased, as in many cases where friends were formerly able to
help, they also were out of work, so therefore were unable to
give the usual assistance to those who were in part dependent

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. |

, upon them. We are pleased to say that the outlook for the future promises marked improvement, and we hope in short
time to again reach the normal in this respect.

We cannot complete our report this year without commending the noble work done by the Holyoke Relief Association for the past year. The names of many families were
saved from going on the books of this office as recipients of
public aid because of the timely assistance rendered by this association, which also saved the department quite sum, as this
department would have been obliged to render just so much
more aid if the association had not furnished the assistance it
did.

|
  OUTDOOR RELIEF.

The number of persons aided during the year was  ,
representing six hundred and seventy-six families, at an expense of ,

The department also furnished burial for sixty-six bodies,
at an expense of .

The total expenses for the year, for all classes of partial
and full support have been as follows:

City, outdoor poor,  
City, sick at hospital,  
Citv, burials,  
————— 
State, outdoor poor,  
State, sick at hospital.   ,
State, burials,  
- ———— 
Cities and towns, outdoor poor,  
Cities and towns, sick at hospital, ..  
Cities and towns, burials,.  
——— 

 REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
Overseers of the Poor,. 
Salaries,   
Additional professional’services, 
———  |
City farm,. ...  
Total expense, re  )
: RECEIPTS.
Appropriation, oe ele 
Receipts from all sources,  
Additional appropriation, 
————— 
Following is detailed statement of expenses outside of
the City Farm:

 wMnworwnowtnowvres eA
 anmnwtat  QO Qe at
extec ep gteeocesegaa ci
S[VIOL won oOo F&F  HH O&O se t
oononee carton  
No Oo HO Oo NM HO OO HM Oo OM or
e o
! -SaSURRSEREER BF
| Sa ;Alog SHA AmME SHEESH: S
: Mr OAradt tH AS wa 
;[euolssejolg pue| HH HAD OH He OR OD SF a
sSmoHNIyAeUr eMIO)  ai ar
: cA
CO "ob fF oC MW EF SF S
So duyyatid hot   mh oo: oo],
Pas pus  ON H.O WH HO t
‘sonddng emo} Nm ae
| mew [eesee  g;e
S ISIG  S&S   ss agaeg @& |
.  Ht tN SAN AN 
a se saeaant SSERSREQA :
B .
Ps osocUcCC cCCSCUCCOCUC SCCSCUCh POWCcSCUCSGCO 
“ aA NO HN  YF AH eK  Xx eousplAolg oot §& Kw HH BH DO or
fx) Jo osnoy  Ss  se we ws vo}
— hee a
| |-ensoersesescuwu ces S
fr) Hxe So ent eagqnoaocgcea  
| Sa HP e& rm ON HO Kr Hn TD DO nN
law yeurdsoH nmmOnda NH HAS TD GS e)
aoa NO AW eo an 
a a
O oococUc CU SUH SOSCSC SSCS!
monroe Ne HK Oe FR  
S p,m (ds eesegig
(an) pue sx he  
BE o* cs
+ mm  Se OH HO HH YW +
 lood on aneeggeangeags o| eG
| Jo aas eAGQ AOSorreanr oe ON NH Ow ts
 pue guoydea Nn ony F&F meN HON  DM al
N a
ea oO Ob FS SOS  EF BO Oo HO 
oe oreeee S
S  oe Ss oS Oo 
Z, SOTIB[CS Sos Ss ose SS Se Sf DR OS OD Oe OU S
Im nm mo Oo mM OO Mm Oo
Be
.  Oo fas) oO woe  wD wd
bd orngruin pue [oN OH SG fH AQ ro ire:  
s Woeqiodsue  SO gw ft  ft dk oO ft tg: S
| ‘qu Stel OM yy NM py MO:  
oy  o. ;
Oo  -H FQ rn Mt OSM: ,
: tog Ome Hw: r
| SUMOL PUe satzID  of te Ht Ae No: oa)
Ee om a) Qo: o: 
A jj oS
x Soo OT Co Vn  by
 soeadedeneeiis
CM OH ON ODN DO eH DO CO ws ise)
a sULlOIPITW Se  HH FSS HAH OO SO a
je aa ON NRee RN A
) we ON
. ODGHUBT SD SCH SS Hb Oo; w
 Honma rt ad tagger air
UIYIOIO t+ tH re Oo oH So SS HH
Nw cS  nN A
A pue sao yqs pa 
“  en
rx) ou ospn Ho Bb )
mwwrtoseeoNh fF Gt oak o
—  NH DO SN DH IN  )
— jeng oO mt  MN N
— aN OO OR aa mt
i oad
Cx) OS? Oo SOM Ob oOo Ss os sO  D
Sen oe he aueve orev eo fe N
Ke Oo NeYe HH OU Fe SF Fe DOD co
A quoy An no  os ror)
: mH NTH RR HRN NATH AT AN ou
& N
TS  Ss ob os S
are sce eens se se  
: gesseg si is
Sof eRe SERN LS
es es rera rt ra rt ec re re 
a a
|  ;
  gs  Lm  t& ys KF SEG RB  
arr’ et ‘ARS   FER KR ARO

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
AMOUNTS APPROVED, OUTDOOR POOR, YEAR  .
Sisters of Providence, soe   
Morin Brothers, ...  
J. H. Fitzsimmons, oe )  
Cornelius Donoghue,. ..  
Miehael Lynch, ..). ;
H. Perrault, wwe,  
J. Karakula,. OO, .
S. Davis Sons,  
William M. Williams,.  
William Bialkosky, .  
L. A. LaFranee,. ..).,  
Hugh Donoghue, . 
A. Muchblatt, ... OU.  
F. Menard, .  
Timothy Donoghue, ...  
John J. Byrnes,  
Pierre Drapeau, .  
John O’Connell, 
E. Benard,  .).  
A. H. Bray, en  
Russell Brothers,. .  
P.D. Morin,  
Val Moquin,  
J.F.Kennedy, .  
D.M. Foley, .. 
Fay Shumway,. ..  
John Tilley Co,  wee,  
L. J. Becker, ... Oe  
Anthony Ciotsk, ..  
KE. G. Couture,. .  
New England Telephone Telegraph Co., ..  
G. E. Russell,. Oe,  
Joseph Cote,  
Albert Pueschell,. .).  
E.L. Lyman,. ..  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Roy W. Bates, wee  
Union Coaland Wood Co, .).  
Holyoke Coal Wood Co.,. ..).  
W. B. Whiting Coal Co,. .)  
T.C. Marra. 
Elgin Butter House, 
| City Market Co, .. James Griffn,. .  
, New York Cash Market Co, ..  
John Sobon, Oh  
Atlantic Pacific Tea Co.,.  
Charles Rhaume,. ..  
Timothy Collins, Cee  
O.N. Chaput,. ...  
J.B. Archambault,  
M. Kaplinsky, Sek  
Prentiss, Brooks Co, ..)  
Thomas S. Childs, .  
P. Juraz,.  ... 
W.T. Burns Shoe Co, ..).  
Thomas J. Griffin,. .  
C.L. Nadeau,.   
Frank Stein,. .).  
Perrault Co,  ...  
J. A. Peltier,.  whe,  
A. Zimmerman, ..  
F. Goddu, Ce  
D. A. Dupont,.  we,  
D. J. Donoghue, ...  
Mrs. M. O’Connor, re  
A. Ferguson,. 
J. F.Coughlin, .).  
Masse Brothers, .  
H. C. Smith,.   ,  
Holyoke City Hospital  
House of Providence Hospital, . 

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
Jacob Solins,  .- we  
Thomas Dillon,  
J.J. Craven,. ...  
Roy Desnoyers, re  
Thomas Falvey,  ...  
Celanire Brouilett, re  
E. O’Connor Co., 
J.C. Tormey,.  ...  
Louis Bibeau, we wet  
A.D. Durocher,  
‘J. A. Campagna,  
L. Sears Co, ww, 
L. D. Ally,  ...  
C.M. Donnelly,  ...  
J. A. Crawford,  ... *
E.M. Greeley, OU,  
Overseers of the Poor, .. |
A. Navins, Be  
J.R. Smith,  ...  
Mrs. J. A. Woodruff,.  .)  
McAuslan Wakelin,.  
Mrs. Bridget Sheehan, rn  
| Steiger Co., 
Mrs. Patrick Sullivan, rn  
Thomas F. O’Connor Co...  
W.F. Grady Co, ...  
Riverside Pharmacy, .  
Simon A. Flynn, ..  
John F. Quigley,;. .).  
D. P. Hartnett,  ... ee,  
L. J. Laporte,  
Millane Brothers,. .  
John Doyle,Jr,  
A. W. Smith Drug Co, ..)  
A.J.N. Desmarais, ...  
M. J. Laporte, ..).  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
F. P. Donoghue, .g. ..  
. Thomas J. Morrow, ..:. ...  
Arthur R. Vincent, .)  
Dr. Frank J.O’Donnell,  
C.E.Glidden,. UU,  
J. Wolfenden,. .  
John B.Shea,. Oh  
James P. Hobart,. ..).  
A. F. Gingras, .)  
A.L. Codaire,. ...  
Mrs. Mary rederichs, Coke 
Alfred Therrien,. .  
Val Ducharme, .-  ...  
City of Chelsea,  we,  
‘ City of Medford, .. ..).  
City of Fall River, ... Ou,  
City of Chicopee... ..  
EK. H. Friedrich,. .  
Patrick Herbert,. ...)  
“Mrs. Virginia Beausolieu,. ..  
D. Chaillee  ... 
N. Mereure, we 
Max Tiedman,. ..).  
John Ostrowski, ..,  
Public Market Co, .: ... OM,  
' Bibeau Coal Co.,.  ee,  
Gaylord Coal Co.,,.  ...  
H. E. Bryant,.  ... 
Dennis Haggerty, Co,  
Samuel Solins, we...  
Fitgzerald Co, ee,  
H. L. Mousette, OY  
S. Rouillard,.  ...  
Domingue Lavoie, ...  
P. Caisse,.ee  
Shea MeKenna,. ..  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. 

Mrs. Dora Boulais, ...  
R. P. Mereure,  
Caroline Goyett,.  
Mrs. B. J. Grady, 
Frank Greaney, .  
Frank F. Hamel,. ..) ;
Edmond Ally,.   
T.&J.Dillon,.  ...  
Robert E. Laforce, Ce  
John B. Beauvais,. ...  
Flynn Drug Co, Oe  
Pp. A. Mahoney,  
C.M. Potvin,.  
Cleveland’s Pharmacy, ...  
A. F. Glesmann,.  
M. M. Murphy,  
Charles U. Roy, ...  .
Gilbert Potvin,  
Mrs. Sophrania Rainault,. ..  

| Edmond Daviau,. ...  
H. Skolnik, he  
Goodall Drug Co, .) |
C. E. Ball Drug Co, wt  
Curran Brothers,. ..  
Winthrop Pharmacy,. ..  
Dr. J.C. Hubbard, ...  
Joseph Beauchamp, ...  
Mass. Hospital for Epileptics,.  
J.B. Roek,..  ... .
Price, Lee Co, wn  
C. R. Alger, ... ee,  
M. Callahan Co...  ... ee,  
Albert Mayowski,. ...  
John Heimritz&Son, ..)  
A.C. Menard,. . 
City of Lowell,  ... ee,  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
City of New Bedford,. ...  
Burdick Optical Co,  ww etn  
August Rupert,  
Alphonse Ouimett, Ce  
Lyman Street Market,,. ...  
A. P. LaFranee,. .)  
Joseph E. Langlois, .  
James J.Sullivan,. . |
Morgan, Crossman Co.,. ... !
Foxboro State Hospital .. |
M. J. Doyle Printing Co,. ... |
Amedie Labreeque, ...  
G. Blais...  ...  
Max Abrahamson,. ...  
John R. MeNally,. 
Henry Butcher,  
T. W. Cavanaugh,. .)  
O’Donnell Family Shoe Store,. .. |
Joseph Authier,  ... !
Mrs. Mary Mackey, .  
Banos Dubiel,  ...  
Green, the Druggist,. ..)  Hebert Brothers,. ...  
Jeremiah Haggerty, Sr, ..).  
P. Rielly, Ce  
A. E. Laplante, ..).  
R. F. Kelton Co,  OU  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts,. ..  
John B. Richards,. ...  
Miss Julia Healey, re  
Naumkeag Clothing Co, ..).  
; L. T. Beaulieu, Be  
P.M. Marsh, ..-..  
W. M. St. George, M.D,  ... |
Edward D. Warren, M.D. .)  
H. E. Miner, M.D. 

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
Thomas E. Cavanaugh,M.D.. ..  
Miss Mary A. Burk,.  
City of Springfield, ..).  
Timothy Sullivan, Co  
Board of Health,. ..).  
H. lL. Cady, 
Transcript Publishing Co,  
J. H. Fleury,. OU,  
I. Kaplinsky,.  
M. J. Lynech,.  ...  
M.D. Ellison,. ..  
Holyoke Butter House, ...  
A. E.Sunter,.  
John Ahern,  
H. Mareott, ... we.  
George N. Jefferson,. ...  
W.E. Kronick,  
I. Raymond, a,  
H. Trudeau, .  
M. Rosenberg,.   
Joseph Guertin,  
Mrs. Emile Gagnon, ....  
Town of South Hadley, ..  
William Schimke, Bee  
Massachusetts School for Feeble-Minded,. ..  
Michael Michalik,. .  
Daniel J. McCarthy, ...  
Nathan N. Feldman,.  
A. H. Adelson, OO,  
S.J.Goyett&Co,  we,  
Town of Ware, 
Joseph A. O’Donnell,. .). |
J.D. Leary, we  
George Desmarais, re  
City,of Worcester, ...  
City of Northampton,.  

|
  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. !
Dr. John W. McCarthy, ... |
J.J. Carroll, M.D.  ... we  
Michael Lalond, ... |
Spooner Gray, .  |
Michael Sullivan,.  
City of Springfield, ..).  
A. E. Forgue Co,  
Emery Trudeau, .  
Richards Coderre,.  
Edward Norton, .  
Peter Bluteau, Beee  
J.B. Boudreau, ..).  
Edward Dowd, re  
Alling Rubber Co, .).  
Rose Coderre,. es  
J.L. Fairbanks, .).  
Mrs. Eugene Moriarty,  
B. T. Silverman, ...  
George F. O’Connor,. ..  
George D. Henderson, M.D.,   .
SICK POOR.

The expense at the hospitals for the care and board of
sick poor was .

We have also taken care of three cases of infectious dis- 
eases at the Hillside Hospital at an expense of .

The items for medicine for the patients at home and attended by the City Physician was .

CHILDREN.

This department provided for five orphans at the various

Sisters’ Institutions at an expense of .

- REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
CITY FARM. |
The number of inmates cared for during the year was as
follows:
| Number of inmates December   
Number admitted during the year, :
|  
Number discharged and died,  
Number remaining November  .-  
HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT.
Of the above number the following were admitted to the
hospital department |
Number of sick in hospital December ,.  
Number admitted during the year, .,  
-  
Number discharged and died, ...  
Number remaining November   
The total number of persons receiving hospital treatment
during the year was as follows: e
Males, Dh. UU  
Females, SO  
—— |
Of the above number one hundred and seventy-three were
sent to the hospital direct, the remainder were inmates of the
institution. :
The duration of treatment aggregated weeks, or an
average of seven weeks and six days for each patient.
Following is detailed statement of expenses at the City
Farm: :

| “xeoere orn os  
eo NY She Se Ee are  
;  SSO ot Batex
' [VOL nw DAN  OH Hm OO b&b oe
“oe mn guranmnreaxts 
| f€ se se st fF BF SF es Ht Q
ee KO
| ot SE  i: Bo: ew
| poom SJujmaeg fF fF oO  ft tm  
*UOSEM eo  
‘gosl jouvel on oN or or rh  S
nn A
- €::s e€ :f 
. iS  
eo smo! “OSUIK pue  .  
: (om OD He Cn Ces S
S BIDIAIBG “sold  Nes pa
 -RES SERS EZEETS
rt rt rt
auoydalay,   ao. nN nN
- pus  eo  
I 
an GEetesee   ge 
‘a Zayyedoy pue oe EG eR BE ENR AB
n Sursoyg ‘sayddng} Yen AnH RO RAN  
Se
a BR:  &
 ws ry .
 wopuwe fF es tf to tS tig xX CL
SIABVPOOJUISIGQ  oe oN a
iot Sot 
Yo cc Sue Btseces rr
 oe
NNwaAe So HMO KreNere +
ee BIlIBLVS QANN owe Ke RK EK Jo
— eos  fF S&F OS S&  
O nN
“ OO oS oS be Oo NN S
N er a
fx} faquny ne tS x:  om  
wn pus oIvMpIeH  ar ce
Z, ne
: ZRES ELS ERE |
ow suqmmid if se ae em SCN he eS OW
Ld pue duquicg Sr NN MN MW FS HSH Cf
| o
Sl mumgpe (S  SERPS TE TTS
fn  id  ‘
Fx, amnzIuINg pur Sgeegetge itil’
Spooy) ssnoH{  en 
)  ile
cyome kh wows sc co
- Ho   Se er Se YEE SN ae
 spooy Aid [nN of foeNONON OO nN
  es 
eo ay: SulqyOI) -o ep etaoewteas s
 puv se ys —-  Dan NN MN S
 eH taal re  
a TRE SE |
  we we been} fiend  .
e dsoyy  Beta am gt :
QR Nn MD ate tke i
AOHSIT AA ny,aetbR GB xe FB E'S
Q puvouorpay -a Ns J} N
i tf om
ea “ms Ss  “fw sts Hm ws us hu UU SLUDSUCUCD ca)
—  OoON*T HEM ASR  
hd poog OH Ne KC OMAR Be Bes
 ore AmFe Fe re Oe +
a £
os +t SC BR MW  HM HT HF YD Ls
ea  xe mra Banton Ss
a ms +t St WOonnansn esc fs
qsiq pue ywayy MANY? t+ Fo KF FEE EKER
SCAuoNNAA HM BANA NR) HN
; oe te NN Re Oe oePe OS ONAN +
| ere aes mh ae beers
aA wat HH ot Ht EDN S
SdJIIVOIL)  FY SoS fF SYS Fe Se SF mo +t $F HF Re HH HT BE OB t
# iow
 oH .
| cS om  rey  \
a) hm mm ob
\S$ et BRREPPR SE
Ae  dd edn dz.

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
AMOUNTS APPROVED, CITY FARM, YEAR  .

Casper Ranger, ... 
Geary, Sullivan Co,  
National Plating Works,. ...  
New England Telephone Telegraph Co.,. .—  
Collins Murray, Ce  
G. E. Russell Co,  ...  
J. H. Delaney, ...  
Holyoke Paint Wall Paper Co...  
John Tilley Co.  ...  
American Soap Washoline Co, tt,  
Oakdale Mfg. Co.,,.  ...  
P. J. Murray Co, ...  
Maplewood Mills,.   
Orient Mfg. Co, ... ee,  
C. B. Sampson, .).  
Rev. John B. Daley,  
James Clarke,.   
O’Donnell Family Shoe Store,  
Dr. T.J.Shinkwin,.  
M.J. Bowler,. Oe,  
J. B. Archambault,  
D. Chaillee ...  
John O’Connell,  ... en  
James J. Sullivan, re  
Kaffr Cigar Co, we en  
Moses Fairfield,  ...  
Mrs. James E. Shea,  es,  
Daniel Leahy, Ce, 
Bart S. Casey, -.  ...  
Frank.L. Greaney,  
John F. Kennedy,. ...  
Dietz Baking Company. ...  
D.P. Hartnett,  ...  
W.F. Grady Co,  ...  
T.F. Kilbride,  ... Oe  

  REPOR'T OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.

| Sutherland Co, .)  
B. F. Bigelow,  
Maurice J. Moynahan, ...  
Maurice Curran, ..., ,
Prew Lewis, ..,  
C. G. Burnham, .),  
C. M. Donnelly,  ...  
Lynch Smith,  
MeLean Brothers,.  ...  
Hugh Donoghue,. ..).  
Hunt Co,  ... 
Fitzgerald Co,.  ... ee,  
G.J. Prew,  ... ee,  
William R.Ross& Co, ) .

| W.T.BurnsShoeCo, ..).  
Prentiss, Brooks Co., re  
Nichlas Weedhaas, .).  
M. Callahan Co.,.  
Peter Donegan, ..  
M. M. Murphy,  
M. A. Allen Son,  ...  
Patrick J. Sheehan, ...  
Baldwin Brothers,. ..).  
Holyoke Broom Works, ..  
Louis Cote, ee,  
E. O’Connor Co;  
Holyoke Steam Boiler Works,.  
Millane Brothers,. ...  

— Doyle O’Connor, .).  

R. T. Oakes Co,  ... en  
Swift Co,  ... ee,  
Sullivan Carmody,. ..).  
A.C. Hunt,  ...  
Price Lee Co,  an  
Thomas J. Griffin,. +  
C. E. Ball Drug Co, we,  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
Holyoke Belting Co, .)  
MecAuslan Wakelin,. .)  
Goodall Drug Co.,,.  ...  
William M. Williams,.  
e New York Butter House,.  
A. F. Glesmans,. -. ..  
Transcript Publishing Co, .. .,  
The Crosby Hardware Store,. ...  
Dr. P. T. O’Rielly, ...  

 Crown Chemical Co,.  ... *
James Griffin,.  
Henry Butcher, .)  
P.L. Rider,  ...  
Vermont Mfg. Co,  
W..E. Biggins, hh,  
Cudahy Packing Co,. .)  
D. M. Foley,.  ...  
L. Sears Co,  we,  
James F. Reidy,  ...)  
P. J. Sullivan,   
John O’Shea,.  
Dr. Thomas A. Dillon,. ...  
Chase Cooledge,.  OO.  
J. Russell Co,  ... we,  
George Ferris, .  
Connecticut Valley Lumber Co., ..  
Belvidere Cash Market Co, ..  
Flynn Drug Co, ‘  
D. D. Lewis,.  ).  

Gustave Kroepel, .. eg. O’Hara’s Harness Shop, ..  
F. F. Monoghan,. .  
J. J. Slattery, Coe  
Begley Brothers, .-  
Nap. Roy,   
H. E.Nash&Co,.  ..  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. |
Dr. John J. Moynahan, ...  
City Cast Iron Brazing Co, ..  
Emery Co,. OO  
Thomas M. Cleary Co,. ..).  
James Goulet,. ... *
West Disinfecting Co., Ce |
T. F. Monaghan,. .. |
W.L.Chilson,   |
Alling Rubber Co, .). |
* A. Steiger Co,.  |
C. Kennedy, ... 
. Novelty Machine Co.,. ..).  
Edward D. Warren, M.D, ..  
Dr. John J. Moynahan, ..  
Great Atlantic Pacific Tea Co,  
|
RECAPITULATION.
Outdoor poor, city,.  
Outdoor poor, state, . 
Outdoor poor, cities and towns,  —
Overseers of the Poor,. 
Additional professional service,  
City Farm, toe  )  
——— 
CR.
By amount eharged tostate, 
By amount charged to cities and towns,  
By visits of City Physician, state,  
By visits of City Physician, cities and :
towns,. ..  
By eash from state,  
By cash from cities and towns,. ..  
By cash received from board of individ- :
uals,  ...ee .

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
- By reimbursement from board of epi- |
lepties,  ... ,
. ———— 
Net expenses to city for year   Respectfully submitted, .
- PATRICK J. DOWD,
ROBERT D. MOORE,
WILLIAM J. DILLON,
Overseers of the Poor.
JAMES T. CUNNINGHAM,
City Almoner.
Submitted December |

REPORT OF
BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen: |
GENTLEMEN :—The Board of Assessors respectfully submit the following report for the year ending December :
Appropriation, Be 
EXPENDITURES. .
Assessors’ Salaries,. . 
Assistant assessor’s salary,. 
Clerk, Be  
Printing street lists, ete, 
Books, stationery, ete, ..  
Looking up records, Boston, Springfield,
ete,  ... ek  
Assistants taking polls, 
Telephone, Be  
Postage, Cee  
Advertising,  
Team hire,. .-..  
Card index system,.  
Street car books,  
Miscellaneous,  
—— 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  
AMOUNT RAISED BY TAXATION AND PURPOSE FOR
WHICH SAME IS RAISED.
: City of Holyoke’s proportion of state tax of
$ oe  
City of Holyoke’s proportion of county tax of
$  
Interest on Armory loan from September to
December the date of the taking
over of the Armories by the state,.  
' City appropriation to be raised by taxation,  
Total amount ordered raised,. 
- QOverlayings on above amount,. ...  
Total amount raised by taxation for above
named requirements,  
: In addition to the above amounts we assess upon
bank stock of local National Banks not
owned by residents of the City of Holyoke a
tax which is collected by the tax collector
and paid to the state treasurer amounting
to, Ce 
Making the total amount of tax collector’s warrants, Ceeee) 
TABLE SHOWING POLLS AND PROPERTY UPON
WHICH TAX IS LEVIED WITH VALUATION.
Real estate,   
Personal estate not including bank
stock owned by residents,  
Stock in local National Banks
owned by residents of Holyoke, :
Polls at  each, Lo.  
Total, oe elle)  

|
  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS. |
In addition to above stock in local
National Banks owned by nonresidents, re  
Total,   
The valuation of real estate is divided as follows:
Value of land,  
Value of buildings,.  
Total value of real estate,  ———————$ 
The increase in valuation over is as follows: ,
Personal estate, ...  :
Real estate,. |
Total imerease, +. ———— 
The tax rate was fixed at  per thousand of the valuation on all property subject to taxation. As shown by thé
above table the total valuation upon which taxes were assessed for the purpose of meeting the appropriations made by
the Board of Aldermen, the County and State Tax and Overlayings was .
Total amount of taxes assessed for the year ending December under the taxation laws of the state is as follows:
General tax levy made by the Assessors as of May
 ..  ... 
Additional assessment made on polls, at ,
each, wege  
Omitted assessments on personal estate made December on ,.  
Commutation Tax assessed to Holyoke Street Railway Company, October  ,.  
Street Railway Corporation Tax received from the /
state,  ...ee !
Corporation Tax received from the state,. |
National Bank Tax received from the state,.  |
Total el.) 
|

, REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  
The Ccrporation Tax received by the city from the state
is the tax paid the state on the stock in Massachusetts corporations owned by residents of the city.
The Street Railway Corporation Tax is part of tax
paid by the Holyoke Street Railway Company to the state
and distributed to the cities and towns in which the company
operates as the number of miles operated in the city or town
bears to the total number of miles operated.

The Bank Tax distributed by the state is the tax assessed

on the stcck in national banks located in Massachusetts outside of the city owned by residents of the city.
. The Commutation Tax assessed to the Holyoke Street
Railway Company under the provisions of the Acts of  ,
Chapter  which provides that Street Railway Companies
shall be assessed tax equal to the following percentages of
the gross receipts of such company as the length of tracks
operated by it in public ways and places of such city or town
bears to the total length of tracks operated.

The percentages shall be based upon the annual gross receipts for each mile of track as follows and computed upon
the aggregate of said annual gross recipts: four thousand dollars or less, one per cent; more than four thousand dol- lars and less than seven thousand, two per cent; more than
seven thousand dollars and less than fourteen thousand, two
and one-quarter per cent; more than fourteen thousand dollars and less than twenty-one thousand, two and one-half per
| cent; more than twenty-one thousand dollars and less than
twenty-eight thousand, two and three-quarters per cent; twenty-eight thousand dollars and more three per cent.

The total gross receipts of the Holyoke Street Railway —
Company for the year ending September was Total number of miles of track operated  Total number of miles of track operated in public ways and
places in the city of Holyoke  Gross receipts per mile

$ We assessed our proportionate part of the two per
eent of the total receipts which was .

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
VALUE OF PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.
United States, ... a, 
City of Holyoke, Ce  
Houses of religious worship, Cee  
Benevolent and charitable societies,. 
Literary societies, .  
Temperance societies,  
Soldiers and sailors and wives and widows of soldiers and sailors who served in the war of |
the rebellion, .. !
Total value of exempted property, 
STATISTICS.
Number of property polls,. .. |
Number of single polls,.   
Number of supplementary polls, 
Number of property owners, .. ... |
Number of horses,. .). !
Number of cows,  ...  
Number of neat cattle other than cows, 
Number of swine, 
Number of fowls,  ... Oe, |
TAX RATE PER THOUSAND DIVIDED.
State, per thousand,. . 
County, per thousand, .  
City,.  ... 
, Total tax rate per thousand,.  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  
ASSESSORS’ VALUATION OF PROPERTY.
  Realestate, , .
Personal estate, 
————— 
" Realestate, ..  
Personal estate,  .
—————  Real estate,  
Personal estate, 
——————  Real estate,  
Personal estate, 
——  |
  Real estate, , 
Personal estate, 
———  Real estate,  
Personal estate, 
, ——————  Realestate, ..  
Personal estate, 
——————  Realestate,  
Personal estate, 
| ——————  —Real estate,  
Personal estate, 
—————.  Real estate,  .$ 
Personal estate, 
————  Real estate,  .$ 
Personal estate, 
————— 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
  Real estate, .,  
| Personal estate, ..  
- —————  Realestate, .$ :
Personal estate,   ;
—-————  Real estate, .$ 
Personal estate,  
. ——————  Real estate, ., 
Personal estate,  
, ———— .
  Real estate, .$ 
, Personal-estate,  
—————  Realestate, , 
Personal estate,  
———————  Realestate, .$ 
Personal estate,  
—————  Real estate, , 
Personal estate,   |
. —————- Real estate, oe ee. 
Personal estate,  
. ————  |
  Realestate,  .$  |
Personal estate,  
, ——— 
| Real estate, .$  |
Personal estate,   |
 ———— 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS. Real estate, , 
Personal estate,  
——————.  Real estate, .$ 
Personal estate,  
——————  Real estate, .$ 
Personal estate,  
———  Real estate, .$ 
Personal estate,  
————  Realestate, .$ 
Personal estate,   ,
—————  Real estate, .$ 
Personal estate,   |
 ——  Real estate, .$ 
Personal estate,  
————  Real estate,  .$ 
Personal estate,  
——  Real estate,  .$ 
Personal estate,  
—— ——  Real estate,  .$ 
Personal estate, 
. ————————  Realestate,.  .$ 
Personal estate,  
———— 
e
i

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
  Realestate,  .$ 
Personal estate, ——————  Real estate, , 
Personal estate,. 
———— 
JOSEPH J. KELLY,
JEREMIAH J. KEANE,
 WILLIAM G. BEAUDRO,
Board of Assessors.
\
/

REPORT OF ss”
To the Honorable, the Mayor of the City of Holyoke: —

The report of the law department for the year ending De| ecember is respectfully submitted:

At the beginning of the year several actions were pending |
in the superior court, and they have been concluded as follows:

Bridget Halpin vs. City of Holyoke.

An action for  damages for personal injury caused
by fall upon sidewalk on Dwight street. Settlement was effected without trial by payment of without costs.

Oliver Bernard vs. City of Holyoke. ,

An action for  damages for personal injury caused
by stepping into hole in the planking of Appleton street |
bridge. Settlement was effected without trial by payment of
$  and costs, the total being .

Catherine M. Wilmot vs. City of Holyoke.

An action for  for damages for personal injury
caused by fall on Dwight street sidewalk. Settlement was.
effected without trial by payment of without costs.

Henry Belanger, Admr., vs. City of Holyoke.

Two actions, one for  damages for death, and one

for  damages for conscious sufferings, of Ore Brinkman,

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.
who was killed by the overturning of wagon upon the highway at West Holyoke, the cause of which was alleged to be the
lack of proper railing. Settlement was effected by payment of
$  in the former and  in the latter.

Edward Couture vs. City of Holyoke.

An action for  damages for personal injury caused
by overturning of wagon at the time Ore Brinkman was killed.

This case was tried in the superior court in December,
 and is properly part of report for  .

In the trial lasting three days, T. B. O’Donnell, Esq., appeared with the city solicitor in behalf of the city. The jury
awarded the plaintiff  and costs, which, considering the
serious nature of the case, may well be considered as result
favorable to the city.

Michael J. Moriarty vs. City of Holyoke.
Frances E. Rogers vs. City of Holyoke.

Petitions for jury to assess damages to land of petitioners
caused by the re-locating and widening of Pleasant street.

Settlement was effected by payment of  to Michael
J. Moriarty and  to Frances E. Rogers.

, The following actions originated during the year:
Michael Fitzgerald vs..City of Holyoke,
Michael T. Walsh vs. City of Holyoke,
Matthew Cramer vs. City of Holyoke,
James Connors vs. City of Holyoke. .

These cases were the result of an unfortunate accident at
Riverside Park, in which one man was killed and the four men

 named sustained severe injury by the caving of bank under
which they were working. Settlement was effected as follows,
and is considered as favorable under all the circumstances,
V Z. :— ,

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.  
Michael Fitzgerald,   
Michael T. Walsh, .) .) .). |
Matthew Cramer, toe      
James Connors, .  .»  

Amelia D. Brown, the widow of James Brown, the man
killed, has an unsettled claim for damages for his death.. It is
likely that settlement of this claim will also be made.

The Committee on Claims has had numerous sessions, and
a large number of petitions for consideration.

The amounts awarded to petitioners for damages by reason of injuries received on sidewalks alleged to be defective
amounted to as follows:

Patrick Mahoney, +.  
Mrs. Mary Sullivan,.   
Mary Barry, Boeee  
Carl Breyer,. . 
Joseph T. Bissell,  .)).  
John Sullivan, . 

Claims for damages by reason of defective sewers were
more numerous than usual, and the committee on claims
awarded as follows .

Samuel Granchamp,.  
William L. Seully, +»  
Patrick F. Carmody,. ..  
James W. Toole,. .  Td. 
Sidney E. Whiting,. .  
John Barrett,  

To claimants for damages for injury sustained at city
dumping place, the committee on claims made awards as fol- .
lows, ‘Viz:

George A. Lawrence, for injury toteam,. ...  
Dennis Keyes, for personal injury,  

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR.

It may be noted that, outside of the payments by reason
of judgments of court, settlements and amounts paid as result of extraordinary accident, the payments to the various
petitioners for damages aggregate .

An action brought in behalf of the city against the firm of
Sparrow McTigue, growing out of irregularities in certain 
school accounts, was settled by the payment to the city of
$ .

The matter of ‘‘annexation’’ of that portion of the city of
Northampton adjacent to the boundary line between Northampton and Holyoke received attention. :

After hearing by the legislative committee, bill was reported. For various reasons this bill was not deemed sufficiently comprehensive by many people, and the matter was allowed to rest till the coming session of the legislature.

Written opinions upon various matters have been submitted to the several departments, the most important one,
perhaps, being that regarding the ‘‘Old County Road’’ or
‘‘Hampden Landing Road,’’ so-called.

For the many courtesies extended by the Mayor and other
city officials, grateful appreciation is expressed.
MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN,
. City Solicitor.

REPORT OF
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: We take pleasure in submitting to you for
your approval our annual report for the year  .

The past year has been one of advancement and progress,
and but for the unfortunate accident which occurred at Riverside park, would have been one of the most successful years
in the history of this department. Additions to our system
have been made by the purchase of lands and many improvements made to our present parks. Taken altogether, we believe
we can truly say, that our parks are now in as good condition

as they ever have been. The most noteworthy additions that
have been made are the purchase of the Ranlet. tract of some
fourteen acres to Elmwood park, leaving only the small portion
of the Ball property to be taken to extend this park through to
Northampton street. Additional land has been purchased for
Riverside park, making larger frontage on Main street and
squaring the southern boundary of this park.

To safeguard the interest of Elmwood park and obtain
an entrance to this park for the residents of Elmwood, together with establishing playground for the children of this
district, the Herbert property was purchased which in time,
will form an important part of the park and which we believe will be appreciated by the Elmwood people.

Another important addition to our park has been the purchase and taking of what is known as Jones’ Point, comprising some twenty-seven acres situated in the northeastern
part of the city, commanding most beautiful view of the

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
surrounding country. It comprises fine grove, an extensive
fiat tract suitable for playgrounds, also large inlet which
can be used for bathing and boating, and which in time will
have direct connections with the Connecticut river by an underpass so that boats can pass directly from the inlet to the
river. We have already commenced operations for the developing of this tract—the preliminary surveys have been
made, and the landscape architects have made full examination of the property and are now at work upon plans for
the development of this tract, and we hope to have them completed early in the spring, so that we can commence operations
on this valuable addition to our park area.

The greater’amount of work has been done on Elmwood
and Riverside parks; at the former the first sections adjoining
Maple street have been finished, graded and seeded and ,
planted with trees and shrubs, and soon the citizens of Holyoke will see what ‘a beautiful park they will have in time.
Left in its natural state as much as possible, the entrance presents most pleasing effect by its graceful winding roadway
and walks to the bottom of the ravine; as the shrubs and
trees grow this effect will be still greater. Preparations will
be made early in the spring for completing the pool which
will enhance its beauty. Progress has been made towards the
construction of the bridge spanning the ravine at Pine street.
We have commenced grading at this point and as soon as the
culvert is extended to Pine street, we shall then be ready to
earry out our plans for the construction of the bridge, which
will be of so much convenience to the residents of Elmwood.
We have cleared much of the undergrowth and brush on this
park to the Ball tract, and constructed rustic foot-bridge for
the convenience of the people at the north end, and all adds
to the beauty of the place. Preparations are being made to
establish fine playground and athletic field on the south side
of Bh street. :

At Riverside park the Main street side is all finished and
planted with shrubs and trees. The river bank has all been

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS. |
cleared and graded and the open-air gymnasium and running
tract is ready for the finishing touches. The wading pool will
have its foundation of clay put in this coming spring and we
hope to have it finished so that the little ones can use and enjoy it next summer. We have established ball ground and
also tennis courts and we are glad to state that they have been
used and enjoyed by many. We anticipate that during the

. coming season there will be great demand for these grounds.
We expect to establish junior ball ground for the younger
element. The cricket ground has been largely patronized.
The coming year should see this park well along towards completion, and when finished should be valuable addition to
our system.

At Prospect park no new work or additions have been
made as we have been obliged to stop all work until we could
get our boundary lines established and settlement -made

é with the railroad company. We have, however, received a
definite proposition from the company, which no doubt will
be accepted, and if so, then we shall be prepared to complete
the improvements mapped out, and this coming year should
see the parapet wall completed to the end of our line; in
which case further additions ahd improvements will be made
to the children’s playground.

On all the other parks no new work or additions have
been made, as there is no chance for us to make any changes,
owing to the limited area, but we have given them the necessary and proper share of attention and consider them in
good condition.

We have heard many favorable and but few adverse

' @omments on the policy which we have pursued relative to
our department, which encourages us to believe that we are
working in the right direction and have the approval of our
citizens in this work, and we ask that they make personal
visit to our different parks, so they may see for themselves the
work which we have accomplished, and how great have been
the changes for the better in the past few years.

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.

In conclusion we again urge strongly the importance of

securing as early as possible more lands for park purposes

, and of placing at the disposal of this board such sums as may
be necessary for such purpose—that we shall have to have
more land for such purposes is an undisputed fact, and it is
merely question whether we shall purchase now while obtainable at fair prices, or later at much enhanced values. We.
again call to your attention our recommendations, that provisions be made for the building of the bridge at Pine street, .
and also the building of the culvert up to this point, for both
of which sufficient sum should be appropriated.

Germania and Hamilton parks are badly in need of a
stone curbing. The present is composed of planks which are 
rotted and not only presents an unsightly outlook, but makes
it possible to preserve the grass borders in proper shape.
The placing of the proper curbing would help greatly towards
the general appearance of the parks. An electric light should
be placed at the south end of Hamilton triangle, being the
junction of Park and East streets. In summer time the
heavy foliage makes this very dark spot and invites trouble
for the mischief makers. |

We are again hampered in our labor department by a
new law which requires that our men shall, in addition to
working only eight hours day, confine their labor to only six
days week. This necessitates our hiring an extra set of men
for one day at an enhanced cost, so that’ our labor account
will be still further increased.

We recommend that the following appropriations be
made for this department for the coming year:

For care and maintenance of present park area, 
For development work on Elmwood park,  
For development work on Riverside park,  
For development work on all other parks,  
For development work on Jones’ Point,.  
For purchase of land for park purposes,.  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
We append herewith statement of our receipts and disbursements for the past year together with detailed statement
of our expenditures and labor by months, and an itemized account of payments for each month, all of which we trust will
meet with your approval.
- RECEIPTS.
Balance, December  ,. .$  .
Reserve, purchase of land,. 
Reserve, construction purposes,.  
Appropriation for . 
Public park loan, +. 
Receipts, ...  
———— 
EXPENDITURES.
Hampden Park, maintenance, 
Prospect Park,  
Elmwood Park,  
Canonchet Park, ‘*  
Hamilton Park,  
Germania Park,  
Riverside Park,  
Small parks,  
General expense,  
———— 
Elmwood Park improvement,  |
Jones Jones’ Point improvement,  
Riverside Park improvement,  
——— 
Purchase of land, 
———— 
| 

' REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
. RESERVE.
*Purchase of land,.   |
Construction purposes,.  ,
. —— 
, 
MONTHLY EXPENDITURES.
Labor. Supplies. Total.
January, 
February,  
, March,  
April,  
May, , 
; June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
December,  
$ 
*  to be paid for Jones’ Point property.

‘ ®
REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
LABOR AND SALARY PAYROLL BY MONTHS.
Labor. Salary. Total.
January,  
February,  
March, .
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,   —-  
August,  
September,  
| October,  
November,  
$ 
LAND ACCOUNT.
Charles Ranlet heirs,  
Holyoke Street Railway Co, Patrick Herbert, . 
R. P. Crafts’ heirs,. 
John Hildreth, legal services, 
— 
OFFICE AND MISCELLANEOUS ACCOUNT.
Aubern P. Capen, salary, .$  
Aubern P. Capen, services,. ..  
Daniel J. Hartnett, salary,.  
Telephone,  
Carfare, ne  
Team hire, »  
Printing and stationery, Sooke  
Cap,:

. ,
  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Insurance, Co,  
Die, ete,  ...  
General expenses, ...  
Engineering Department expenses...  
—— 
JONES’ POINT IMPROVEMENT.
Cartage,  ...
G.E.Russell, ...  
Labor, . 
Sundries, ..  .
———— 
ELMWOOD PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Olmsted Bros., plans, .$  
Samuel Beaulieu, teams, 
Patrick Fitzgerald, teams,  
Dillon Bros., teams,. ..  
Thomas Bray, teams,  ..  
Frank Bray, teams,. .. .
Sheldon’s Transfer, ashes, ...  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, teams,.  
William H. Morehouse, ashes, ..  
| Joseph Piper, teams, ...  
P. J. Kennedy, teams,. ..  
Patrick Bynan, teams,. .- ...  
Merrick Lumber Co., lumber,  
Cartage and express, ...  
Labor, .  .)  
Sundries, ..  
———— 

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
RIVERSIDE PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Olmsted Bros., plans,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, teams,.  
Doane Williams, lumber, ....  
William H. Morehouse, cartage, ..  
Sheldon’s Transfer, ashes,.  
James Kennedy, teams,. ...  
Johnson Butler, tennis supplies, ..  
Patrick Fitzgerald, teams,.  
P. J. Kennedy, teams,. ...  
Casper Ranger, lumber,.  
Merrick Lumber Co., lumber, ...  
doseph Piper, teams, ...  
Dillon Bros., teams,.  
Labor, . 

————— 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
ACCOUNTS AND EXPENDITURES OF EACH OF THE
| SEVERAL PARKS.
HAMPDEN PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers,  Net Expenditures,  |
BILLS.
Maintenance,  
.  
PROSPECT PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers,  Net Expenditures, 
BILLS.
Maintenance, oo
:  
ELMWOOD PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers,  Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor,  
BILLS.
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
,  

 REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
CANONCHET PARK.
PAY ROLIL. :
Park keepers,  Net Expenditures, 
BILLS. :
Maintenance,  
$  
HAMILTON PARK.
PAY ROLL. )
Park keepers,  Net Expenditures, :
” BILLS.
Maintenance, :
$  :
GERMANIA PARK. ,
| PAY ROLL.
Park keepers,  Net Expenditures, 
BILLS. |
Maintenance,  
$  
RIVERSIDE PARK.
PAY ROLL.
Park keepers,  Net Expenditures, 
Extra labor, )
BILLS.
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
$  :

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS. a
SMALL PARKS.
PAY ROLL.
 Labor,  Net Expenditures, 
BILLS.
Maintenance,  
$  
JANUARY.
TO WHOM. FOR WHAT. AMOUNT.
Patrick Bynan,  Teams,  
‘Olmsted Bros., Plans, eté.,  
W. L. Bishop, Cartage,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
—— §$  
FEBRUARY.
Transcript Publishing Co., Printing,  
Doane Williams, Lumber,  
M. J. Laporte, Cartage,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
| Thomas Bray, Teams,  
Frank G. Bray, Teams,  
A. P. Capen, Labor,  
EK. H. Friedrich, Coupling,  
William H. Morehouse, Cartage,  
W. T. Dean, Painting,  
———  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
MARCH.
TO WHOM. FOR WHAT. AMOUNT.
Doane Williams, Lumber,  
M. J. Laporte, Team,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone, |
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
—— $$  
APRIL.
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone, :
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
——— §$  
MAY.
Carl F. Geissler, Labor, 
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
Rehm Wagner, Repairs,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Holyoke Broom Works, Brooms,  
Charles Greene, Signs,  
Chase Cooledge, Oil,  
Transcript Publishing Co., Printing,  
M. J. Kearns, Repairs,  
Holyoke St. Ry. Co., Tickets,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Hardware,  
William H. Morehouse, Cartage,  
G. E. Russell, Seed, ete., |
C. W. Johnson, Insurance,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
TO WHOM. FOR WHAT. AMOUNT.

Holyoke Supply Co., Repairs,  

J. Russell Co., Seed, ete.,  

Dillon Bros., Teams,  

—— §$  
JUNE.

G. E. Russell Co., Supplies, 
Transcript Publishing Co.,Advertising,  
Transcript Publishing Co.,Advertising,  

Doane Wilhams, Lumber,  

Roland T. Oakes, Labor,  

Holyoke Broom Works, Brooms,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  

J. Russell Co., Die, ete.,  
Fitzgerald Co., Time Books,  

City Cast Iron Braz. Co. Repairs,  

E. F. Dreikorn, Paint,  

William H. Morehouse, Teams,  

A. F. Gingras, Team,  

Dwight O. Judd, Premium,  

Dillon Bros., Teams,  

Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams,  
S. M. Marks, Paint,  

Holyoke Supply Co., Piping,  

Frank G. Bray, Teams,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  

Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  

——— §$  
JULY.

City Ice Co., lee, 
Dillon Bros., Teams, /
George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
Samuel Beaulieu, Teams,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
TO WHOM. FOR WHAT. AMOUNT.
Joseph Beach, Flowers,  
W. T. Dean, Bronze,  
Telegram Publishing Co., Advertising,  
Telegram Publishing Co., Advertising,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Sundries,  
John H. Lee, Repairs,  
Sullivan Carmody, Repairs,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Teams,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, lowers,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone, |
A. L. Codaire Co., Hack,  
Sullivan Carmody, Repairs,  
Transcript Publishing Co.,Time slips,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Sundries,  
E. F. Dreikorn, Paint, |
E. H. Friedrich, Repairs, ,
Holyoke Supply Co., Piping,  
Holyoke St. Ry. Co., Tickets,  
William H. Morehouse, Cartage,  
D. J. Landers, Sand,  
John H. Lee, Repairs,  
Doane Williams, Lumber, ,
| G. E. Russell, Supphes, |
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams,  
City of Holyoke Water
Dept., Water,  
City of Holyoke Water ,
Dept., Water,  
Daniel J. Hartnett, Services,  
: W. H. Abbott, Fertilizer, ,

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
TO WHOM. FOR ‘WHAT. AMOUNT.
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  .
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
P. J. Kennedy, Teams,  
E. D. Wells, Sundries,  
—— 
AUGUST.
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
C. F. Sullivan, Repairs,  
G. J. Prew, Cap, etce.,  
G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  
Holyoke Supply Co., Repairs,  
City Ice Co., Ice,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Forestdale Cemetery Assn. Flowers,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Cartage,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Israel Ducharme, Repairs,  
George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
Field Sinelair, Flowers,  
J. W. Adams, Shrubs,  ,
———  
SEPTEMBER.
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams, 
Dillon Bros., Teams,  
John Tilley, Chairs,  
Patrick Fitzgerald, Teams, 
Albert Tatro, Teams,  
W. L. Bishop, Cartage,  
W. L. Bishop, Cartage, ,

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
TO WHOM. FOR WHAT. AMOUNT.
Holyoke Motor Fdy. Co., Pounders,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Cartage,  
A. F. Gingras, Team,  
Dillon Bros., Teams,  
Joseph Piper, Teams,  
City Ice Co., Ice, |
Holyoke Supply Co., Fittings,  
G. E. Russell Co., Sundries, :
D. M. Allison, Oil,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Casper Ranger, Lumber,  
John H. Lee, Repairs,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Sundries, ——-:  
J. Gullong, Repairs,  
John H. Lee, Repairs,  
Gas Electric Dept., Coal tar, 
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber, |
William H. Morehouse, ‘Teams,  
P. J. Kennedy, Teams,  
P. J. Kennedy, Teams, 
A. H. Riee, Repairing,  
| ——  §$  
OCTOBER.
City Cast Iron Braz. Co.,Repairs, 
W. L. Bishop, Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
Chase Cooledge, Oil,  
Sullivan Carmody, Repairs,  
J. Russell Co., Gears,  
Prentiss Brooks Co., Cement,  
Ely Lumber Co., Lumber,  
Telegram Publishing Co., Advertising,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
TO WHOM. FOR WHAT. AMOUNT.
Holyoke St. Ry. Co., Tickets,  
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber, :
City Ice Co., Tee, ,
William H. Morehouse, Ashes,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  
Transcript Publishing Co., Advertising,  
E. F. Dreikorn, Paint,  
E. D. Wells Co., Shovels, etc.,  
C. A. Whitaker, Sand, :
Holyoke Supply Co., Repairs,  
George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
James Kennedy, Teams, |
Israel] Ducharme, Lumber,  
Joseph Piper, Teams, |
A. F. Gingras, Horse, ear,  
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons, Teams,  
Dillon Bros., Teams, !
John Frei, Repairs,  
Adams Express Co., Express,  
American Express Co.. Express,  
W. L. Bishop, Exp. and cartage,  
| ———  
NOVEMBER. |
) E. H. Friedrich, Packing, |
George A. Murphy, Repairs,  
W. L. Bishop, Cartage,  
M. J. Laporte, Ambulance,  
Albert Paquette, Repairs,  
Demers Son, Prints,  
Doane Williams, Luinber,  
Johnson Butler Co., Tennis net, ete., |
P. Fitzgerald, Teams,  
John Frei, Cop. strainer, |
|
|

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
TO WHOM. FOR WHAT. AMOUNT. :
Dillon Bros., Teams,  
A. F. Gingras, Horse, team,  
Adams Express Co., Express,  .
Ely Lumber Co., Lumber,  
C. W. Rackliffe, Axe hand,  
Holyoke St. Ry. Co., Tickets, E. Dept.  
Doane Williams, Lumber,  
R. T. Oakes, Labor, 
J. Russell Co., Supplies,  
W. T. Dean, Paint, 
G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  
E. D. Wells, Saw, ete.,  
Crosby Hardware Store, Supplies,  
L. Bibeau, Oil,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone, |
Merrick Lumber Co., Lumber,  
—— §$  
DECEMBER.
Daniel J. Hartnett, Services, 
Holyoke Supply Co., Supplies,  
John H. Lee, Repairs,  
A. D. Durocher, Oil,  
G. E. Russell Co., Sundries, ,
K. D. Wells, Supplies,  
John Frei, Supplies,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
New Eng. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephone,  
—— §$  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
AREA OF PARKS.

Acres.
Canonechet, . 
Elmwood, Be  
Germania,   ek  
Hamilton,  hh  
Hampden,  
Prospect,  ...ee  
Riverside, Ce  
Ranger, we  
| Sullivan Square, a,  
Laurel,.  
Coughlin,   
Jones, Be  

We have been most courteously treated in all our affairs
by the Mayor, members of the Finance Committee as well as
members of the board, and to them we wish to express our
gratitude for the interest they have taken in our department. 

To the engineering department who have rendered us
most valuable assistance we also are greatly indebted.

The foregoing report is respectfully submitted for your
approval and we trust it will merit your generous consideration
in the appropriations to be made for the coming year.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES E. MACKINTOSH, Chairman,
JAMES F. BURNS,
WILLIAM J. HOWES,
M. O. DREIKORN,
SAMUEL GRANDCHAMP,
Board of Park Commissvoners.
Holyoke, Mass., December .

REPORT OF THE
CITY ENGINEER.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN :—The thirty-fifth annual report of the City
Engineering Department ending November is herein
submitted :

RECEIPTS.
By appropriation,. ..  
EXPENDITURES. ,
Salaries of City Engineer and assistants, 
Office supplies, .  
Printing and binding, Co  
Carfare, horse hire, traveling expenses, etc,  
Telephone and telegraph,.  
Directory, engineering periodicals,  
| 
HIGHWAYS.

The most important work done in the department of —
highways was the extension of Jackson street under the Holyoke Westfield Railroad. The need of extending or opening
up Jackson street at this point has been agitated for over a

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

decade of years, not only on: account of the short route which
. it would offer to traffic between the upper and lower sections

of the south end of the city, but also on account of the continual danger from trains to which hundreds of people, in crossing the railroad tracks, were exposed when going to and from

their work in the different mills and shops in the locality.

The work, which had been commenced in the latter part
of last year is now completed. It consisted in the construction of metal bridge to carry the railroad across the street
at grade of twelve feet or thereabouts above the street, and
the excavating, draining and paving of the street with granite block.

Sinee the bridge had to be acceptable to the railroad company, especially in its stability and safety in every way, it
was thought advisable, notwithstanding that the city had to
pay the total cost of the same, to let the railroad company

' build the bridge and thus assume all responsibility for its stability and safety during its construction and afterwards.

This the railroad company not only agreed to do, but insisted upon doing, while all excavating, draining and paving
was done by the city by day labor.

The work, as now completed, and as all citizens who have
seen it can testify, is credit to the city, not only from practical but also from an aesthetic standpoint; the ‘‘ City Beautiful’’ being kept in view as far as possible in the design of the
work.

Of the other work done in highways, tar macadam has
been laid on Lincoln street from Pearl street to Northampton
street; on Suffolk street from Walnut street to Oak street; on
Pine street from Suffolk street to Lyman street; on East
Dwight street from Bridge street to Bowers street; on West

| street from East Dwight street to Pequot street; on Commercial street from Cabot street to Sargeant street and on Brown
avenue from South street to Laurel street.

The total length of these streets macadamized is miles
and covers an area of square yards.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER. lol

Besides tar macadam being laid on the above streets, Suffolk street from Chestnut street to Walnut street, Mosher
street from Center street to Bowers street and portion of
Chapin Square have been re-surfaced with macadam.

The cost per square yard of pavement laid in each street,
including excavation and foundation, is shown in the following
table: SO

i

paex-bg EB EF &
mug /geSE eR
.  
| s
sprex bg FS queuleAe gy  
|i yo vex ses :
v SES aRE 
.  &
: SPbi: i: i] 
. iidgide  
: cddgdda
- PEEEEES  
ce) |ee  Pp pp Pp pp Pp EE
 AS ec cd ep :
   +
DM Seas ES ss
es EEREERES zee
REERE SE eo
g :*
S| PEG EG in
all PEPE EEG lao rk
a) ccetage alalecall
| ‘ieea dl slegale
S GREER aE TEE:
|  Be |e
s   as ERE:
es fee éaéead tae
 g| h
  ye Ge oe wana:
ds) ig: ccm lal eR
a wae ree:
pd ‘an Geet Aa
E Satole gE
 fe baa ele boi ii
| eo: ale gle
a) Be BEES: Ble ik
| oS Peg#d@ eg g#  g|  ok
; gees se  lg
  ||  egga at &
pO SSR eS egal! gf i
:  i: Oo :
BS em:  a: avi
  Sasttaagt: aA
D pan PAOR ED  s
igs Sg:  gq is
| Hy HB Oa. :
  oe ae 
ga og oe ea alk
&  ig
ee SO" EE EES |
aught tg pail
| Begs  ada |g
Sfeg On aif
— WM os ae onal
BSESES Pe
os sg
na a

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
ACCEPTED STREETS.

While large number of streets has been petitioned for
‘acceptance during the year, no final action has been taken on
any of them by the Board of Aldermen. .

CURBING AND SIDEWALKS.

For information regarding the construction of new sidewalks and the laying of curbing together with the re-surfacing
of old sidewalks, you are respectfully referred to the report
of the Board of Public Works.

BRIDGES.

The wooden bridge over the first level canal on Sargeant
‘street is rapidly deteriorating and should be substantially repaired or replaced by new structure. Substantial repairs
‘should also be made on the Dwight street foot bridge, the lower

| cords of which are eaten into and badly damaged by corrosion caused by gases from the locomotives. Both of these
bridges should receive attention in the early spring.

Following is tabulated list of the bridges under the care
of the city together with their widths of roadway, sidewalks
and the areas of the same.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF CITY.
  a:
| et PD ae Gat 
,  os “ag lw ow  ra
 Ga
Location aes as o
a |Se/ ese ifs| Be 
S |Fe|]  
a SO (OO
South Hadley Falls (county |
bridge) eight spans............  ft.) ft.  
Bridge st. at Valley Mills ........ ft.  ft.  
Lyman st. over lst level canal ...| ft. ft.  
Lyman st. over  nd level canal ..| tt. ft.  
- Dwight st. over lst level canal
(brick road and concrete walk)|  ft.  ft.  
Dwight st. over  nd level canal |
(brick road and concrete walk)| ft.  ft.  
Appleton st. over  st level canal.| ft. ft.  
Appleton st. ovér  nd level canal|  ft.  ft.  
Cabot st. over  st Jevel canal....] ft.)  ft.  
Cabot st. over  nd level canal....| ft.' ft.  
Cabot st. over  rd level canal
(granite road and concrete walk)| fr. ft.  
Sargeant st. over  st level canal  )\ ft. ft.  in.  .
Sargeant st. over  nd level canal|  ft.  ft.  
Jackson st. over  nd level canal.  ft.  ft.  in.  
Main st. over  rd level canal.....|  t.|   ft.  
Willimansett (county bridge),
three spans.....................| ft.|  ft.  
Willimansett bridge (approach). ft.  ft.  
Foot bridge over B. M.R. R.
tracks at Dwight street........;  ]...... poe  t,  
a
TOtAL sees     
j i
: SEWERS.

There has been no work done for years in the sewer department which has probably rendered greater service to a
large number of people than the diversion of the Walnut street
sewage into the Front street sewer.

For many years, in fact since it was first built or very
: iortly afterwards, this Walnut street sewer, owing to stenches
and odors arising from its outlet, had been common nuisance
in the surrounding locality.

These stenches and odors were such, especially in the summer time, when low water was in the river, that none but a
patient public would have so long tolerated them. Even as
far back as the eighties this nuisance was strongly agitated

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  

. and plans discussed for its abatement. Of these plans the one

most favored then it seems, was that of extending the sewer

in tunnel under Lyman street from Walnut street to Front

street, where it could be discharged into the Front street

sewer. No doubt, because of the very large amount it would

eost to build such tunnel, the matter was allowed to drop,

and nothing more was done about it until when another

plan was proposed. This was to tap the sewer in Prospect
street and carry its dry weather flow in fifteen inch pipe for )

;ome distance into the river where the volume of water would

be such as to thoroughly dilute it and thus destroy its foulness. On account of this plan being only partially executed,

as the pipe it was claimed was not extended into the river as

far as proposed, the results were disappointing since the floating matters in the sewage still kept drifting back to shore to

become foul and create odors as before. Besides, the pipe,

after storms of any magnitude, became clogged so that it was

. no little expense to keep it in working order.

In  your present engineer, after giving the matter
considerable attention and study, outlined plan in his report
for that year for abating this nuisance forever at the low estimated cost of .

This plan was to divert, not only the dry weather flow of
the Walnut street sewer into the Front street sewer, but the total flow of the sewer, except what might occur in extraordinary
rain storms; not, however, by an extension laid in the usual
way, which in the eighties was not considered very practicable

. owing to grades and heavy excavation, etc., but in rather
somewhat unusual way by building the extension to work under pressure and thus overcome deep excavation and save many
thousands of dollars in the cost of the sewer.

In order also to make the excavation as little as possible, 
especially, since, no matter what route would be followed, it
would have to be almost all through solid rock, the route selected was contiguous to the old sewer from point of diversion
through the ice house to the Boston Maine Railroad; thence

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
through the property of the Railroad Company, in close proximity to its southern main track, to Prospect street where it
would connect with the Front street sewer.

For one reason or another this plan, as outlined in  ,
was not executed until the past year when the work was done
and consisted of the laying of twenty-inch cast iron pipe
  feet in length. The laying of the pipe and all work pertaining thereto was let by contract to the Byrne Construction

Company, Boston, Mass., while the pipe, lead and other supplies were purchased directly by the city and furnished to the
contractor.

The total cost of the work, including engineering and inspection, was or an increase above the estimate
made in of about ten per cent. This increase. of course,
might be expected on account of the increased cost of material and labor since  —

The work of laying the pipe-line along the railroad was
rather difficult to perform, as the trench had to be dug out of
solid rock for distance of feet. To do this explosives

 had to be used, and the care and judgment that had to be exercised in their use can be easily imagined where the center of
the trench was within five feet of the rail of the main track,
and where about sixty trains passed each day.

It is satisfaction to be able to state that, notwithstanding all the dangers which surrounded the laborers in performing their work, not one was hurt; that the work has been
faithfully performed by the contractor and that likewise the
project is thorough success.

It is also satisfaction to be able to state that stenches no

) longer exist in the neighborhood surrounding the Walnut
street outlet, and that residents living there are now freed

- from nuisance to which they had to submit from practically |
the time the sewer was built.

The other sewer extensions constructed during the year
- are shown in the following table together with table showing
the length and average cost per lineal foot of all sewers built

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
in the city. This latter table has been compiled during the |
year, and while it may not be absolutely correct, owing to lack
of data regarding the earlier sewers, it is practically correct.
t .

a 
| Ss .
s Fe  mQ
  pe wt gaa  S
, ae Ss BO gaS i
Fi gis Pe ggi :
| Bus aalo woe &
  cS Baa ww :
ess om ON on Ht aia i
oa sn (Sl re) mH m
e qe nD D
& we  sy)
OF] eT  AN oO x
re  ae —)
ie rs [o} |
 ae ‘
  Dob eens xi
o ot :
| Boss |
  Dob bo ——||
| Dott  Soi boi: Dt :
| nate Dob  ot nN
: for) TT :
Oo oe  a
Q oS sS oO |,
ee ee
  et q
  or)
|  Ss  
bt  No) ,
|  Sa -m —s  Ss os Soe: fl ltl OS:  .
| eg adak Df gt A
ia} @das.  Soka @: a
  Oo Ss Qk oF he i
oe) we Pe) eto  eo Ff
  Be)  
Pas oOo ww tt So jo}
] bo se) [Jo) le) t
g nN  OS  an A
DOON So 
om [o a)  ne HN
pd  ed NQ  fon) rs) :
x to lo a) fe a} AQ  
. ") moor  ro
be  ss Hime oS eS |
 man
- ES eo -:?:ffe
S| |
po ee
BES FR: a:a: .
     Qi: Seiya
es .
fe mega cyt  abt  ees Bag iFwis:
a] axseita Sick mg tone sesiae: :
masa  aie Oe iS peo SR ie :
ogee isk pig AS cok |
 ESe  Fuso Beg Sehicags: |
ja Oe peat Foees SFO So:
ed a, me Vd ge se eors rT) She pet Oe :
mio dhae ey  neQe |
: Aseaqhd Fests
 He Botoo  adaesesor
g “- ab: PoP ES HR aEOE
iS ra em: et Dt dt |
in Pay ri wi:  '" Oo:  
o)woo: se &. *
aU  mn £ 
RM  AS B- oOo: 
\ oof i) fe rs aot Oo: :
o ad ro aeaik  '
“iP REN: Piibpha
Zz Ssh -—  Be a
aaHw &
|  ‘ew  Zz an} fa} aa -
»  :e: am, me) Sond
  Oo:  :é: re) BD  .
-O- Ss :Ock: min ste ow oP ON
o GS -m: Cor ‘bik? |
e aie: gee GES —I
  Eck: g: Big igigia:  |
- om  mm mM fo: oc: ee
 Sok eS ae: Bible ce ig: a
“eos  S  eg plata:  |
|  sigisisis) BS |
F NANMN: oad ot ®
. NANANS Sco Soe rey
  NS SSSS ERS  Fy
:  Pe} ASSN )
@:  AASAR BO
g oO na bw .
eo ad  nn re :
Gs mM  oO mn f] fut Pah \
Z om  fo) fo) a] Pw
o fd)  Ss wey  sz :
As c—| &o a) gs  Co)
  P) oa  
& we) ®o —
 FRR os £
;  zs km os 
fe) Nn er rm Oo be ry |
s |B Fz wo 
+ US ZO ,
 eo ZO |
+ mo rs al |
  
+ SH |
 +
l;

|
C}  '
P|  WH ages
 
a oe
PD wo gPe*  
&  fon) ae oas Ra E
Bai Be sigs) E
  gs ue Ss se  
$  poet a
see, in io x
a ow  |
; MN i
[ ao ob o—
gxas!l NAW oF !
Bo RE fe if  ja |
{{ ——* |
Bao mG  er  |
Qe |
a :
: ont pe  |
a rn rae  |
Ce re SB EF
“-  MN eC  
Z| a] Bae |
   Sz  S|
: BOR sac Mo
E CHR SS  gs
 oon
S tem .
e Beeg
  tN rs] al |
eae Bie BO
R yh my [
| [| DP  Bl
» ew re |
.  are P
 pa ND eS  |
: i? oe }
 om  me |
Z. Ss  ea) Se a
— aa: OG os |
| SE: ag ied: ae  
tm nes i
 Sei  ies: Sj ii &) ge:
“ as BE tm ry
  iD  comm lepa
 Ba SS  ok ee
. we:  s: se:
) Bes  BS: ele sie
joa See BSC Se HM j)  es mi ets)
[ob] fr
wn ac  padce ERE
:  
an gp®O®gsa: ae  Aa |
i RBH: efrrl Ale:
 Bo: peng:  z
  ao  Dt az
fa gg BRIRA: Si: Ss  ge
By  SB ie) By Fe
a Say sO: me  I
  ROo Pe
B Co mS EY Ps PS |
are)  AB adaa ae mR !
»  tes) Bl
e  |
g iE Bs E: fe 
g On  a: ge.  oe |
 o:  &® fs €: &: EE :
 eo ae TI OS:  a
ewe one  ae 
Cee WO HO |
—  Er So LS wos 
SS !
Nn ao mo Ny an  |
.  |
,  g) —r) Sess
  Ee  i" ABS :
g  Sd noe:
  jm: Z, fee
Zz we gg  st).
a iS ad Lest
, j, EES  )
: ie BES?
i ae ee
We ié (e seta
e tr Oe
+ ls  
| |

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
TABLE SHOWING TOTAL LENGTH AND COST OF
SEWERAGE SYSTEM OF CITY OF HOLYOKE TO DEC. ..
Sag Cost Vv
Year Length Cost ‘Ql Cost Sowers cost
in Tee  C. Basins |per foot.
 , , , 
 , ,       §,     , , 
     ,   :
 , ,  |
   .
    |
   
.  , , , 
   .
    :
     , .     
Totals,   
Average cost per foot excluding Catch Basins, .
ss oe including  :
Sizes from to inches in diameter. .

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER,  
SCHOOL HOUSE DEPARTMENT.

, New plumbing consisting of twenty-four new closets and
two five stall urinal batteries were installed in the West street
school. Besides this plumbing, two new Terazzo floors were
laid in the boys’ sanitaries. In the Appleton street school, the
girls’ sanitary was raised another story in which was installed
four new closets, while in the South Chestnut street school, the
old plumbing in the boys’ saintaries was removed and replaced
by new plumbing of modern type.

The plans and specifications for all this work were prepared in this department under whose direct superintendence
the work was done. The arrangement of sanitaries in school 
house as well as the plumbing proper is very important matter. This can be seen in the improvements made by the re-arrangement in the sanitaries in the West street school and also

 in those in the Sargeant street school both of which are models
from sanitary standpoint, especially when it is also considered the satisfactory manner in which the plumbing was

- done by complying strictly with plans and specifications as
exacted by this department.

The coming year the sanitaries in the Park street school
and in the Elm street school should be overhauled, and also if
possible in the North Chestnut street school.

PARKS.

In the Park Department survey has been made of the
Jones’ property, so-called, and other adjoining properties,
containing in all about thirty acres which have been purchased or taken for park purposes.

These properties are located on the Highlands along the

 Boston Maine Railroad between Pleasant street and the
Holyoke and Northampton boundary line.

In this vicinity there is considerable property belonging
to the city, all of which had been defined during the year by
stone monuments set in the boundary lines.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

The development work, especially in Elmwood Park, took
considerable more time of the Engineering Department in giving lines and grades than was expected. Should as much engineering work be required by the Park Department this coming year, it may be advisable to make such arrangements as
will allow an assistant in this department to give his whole
time to the work during the summer months at least.

WATER DEPARTMENT, |

With number of cities and towns all over this part of
the country in state of water famine, and still larger number threatened with one, providing the present drought prevails much longer, the city of Holyoke can congratulate itself
upon the abundance of its water supply. This is seen in the
large storage now on hand in the reservoirs, which, in the aggregate, amounts to about of gallons or quantity sufficient to supply the city at its present consumption for
many months to come, even if no rain fell or water reached the
reservoirs in the meantime. Rare, indeed, are the towns and
cities that can make such statement, and it  only in trying
years, like the present one, that the real value of the Holyoke supply can be seen and appreciated.

From this abundant storage on hand in the end of dry
season, it might appear to many that the supply is unlimited
so far as quantity is concerned, and that, therefore, there
should be no restriction upon waste or the wanton use of water
in any way.

This idea would be very mistaken one to Hold, because
there is no city of any size safe from water famine if its publie water supply is not only sufficient to meet the draft made
upon it in the driest year, but in the two driest consecutive
years that might occur as shown by record.

It is not the driest year that tests the adequacy of the
‘public water supply, depending especially upon small mountain streams and impounding reservoirs, but the winter and

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
spring of the following year, which, if dry, make it impossible
to fill the reservoirs before the approach of second dry ,
summer season. Such conditions as these test the water supply, and may occur at any time as they have occurred in  
and in this state, and may possibly occur again in  
and  judging from present indications.

Now, suppose our storage was sufficient only to meet the
trying demand made upon it in the present year, and that the
reservoirs were now, or would be next February, partially
empty; what would there be to prevent water famine next
summer, providing that the reservoirs could not be filled in
the meantime, owing to the dry winter and spring. Hence it
can be seen the object of having as large storage as possible

) on hand all the time.

It must also be borne in mind that there was no water
from our storage reservoirs wasted across the overflows since
June last, and may not be wasted again, even if only ordinary
dry weather prevails until the spring of  if even then. ,

The strong emphasis laid on this ‘‘two year’’ dry or fam- 
ine period was shown by your engineer in his report in  
on the Manhan river as an auxiliary supply for Holyoke; said
report being included in the report of the Board of Water
Commissioners for  .

Here an estimate of what the minimum yield might be in
the driest seasons was computed so conservatively low that the
actual measured yield of the present dry year, as compared

| with it, is twenty-six per cent higher, while that of the six :

driest months is forty-six per cent, and that of the driest month
one hundred and seventeen per cent higher.

| In other words, the actual yield of ‘the Manhan in the
present dry year, whether in its driest month, in its driest six
months, or in the whole of its twelve months, is much higher
than what was computed it might be when estimating it in
 .

From these figures, it  almost needless to state that the
yield of the Manhan in any year during the past twelve consec  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
utive years in which the stream has been measured, has never
fallen anywise nearly as low as the estimated yield made in
 thus proving conclusively the conservatism followed in
making the estimates.

But it is not wholly in the abundance or quality of the —
public water supply wherein lies its real value. It is also in
the arrangement of its system. This has been shown several |
times within the last few years in relation to odors and tastes
in the supply, but more especially within the past summer
when the high service reservoir water, owing to its foulness,
had to be cut out of the system entirely and replaced by water
of purer quality. system arranged to meet such conditions is valuable one, as it enables the management to fur- ,
nish water of good quality at all times. |

There is hardly reservoir of any magnitude, impound' ing surface water in this climate, that does not at one time or
another give trouble by unpleasant odors and tastes caused
generally by organisms in the water. This has been seen in our:
Ashley and Whiting street reservoirs, whose waters, although
always of good quality from health standpoint, have time:
after time become unfit to drink, owing to their foulness caused
by the lower forms of both vegetable and animal life.

- But notwithstanding that these reservoirs are subject to
odors and tastes occasionally, it was not expected that the:
‘high service would also become subject to them, especially
within such short time after it was built. The reason for not
expecting such was because of the great care that had been
taken in cleaning and stripping the reservoir by removing all
vegetable and organic matter, thus lessening to minimum the food supply for supporting living organisms in the:
water. |

Whatever effect the thorough cleaning of the reservoir
may have in this way, it has not been wholly successful, as an
aquatic plant known as ‘‘Chara,’’ or to be more accurate,
‘‘Nitella’’ (both being practically alike) has grown and flourished in the reservoir all summer and imparted to the water

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
such taste and odor that made it unfit for drinking or even
cooking purposes.

‘*Nitella,’’ as known in botany, is species of water weed
belonging to the Characaea Order, which, in vegetative structure, resembles the filamentous Algea, and in external appearance the higher plants.

This order, although having no near relatives living now,
is of very ancient origin, being found in the fossil state in
the Tertiary of Europe. It is, however, still more distinguished from the important fact that in the species Chara andNitella (both of which make up the bulk of the Characaga
Order) vegetable circulation was first discovered. This circu. lation as observed appeared so marvellous from the manner in
which currents of gelatinous matter or sap moved in mass up
and down in spiral courses through the cells and tubes of these
plants, that it led one great authority to remark that if the
same was true of all plants, the wonderful noonday silence of
a tropical forest was after all due only to the dullness of our
hearing, otherwise we would be stunned by the murmur of
these currents whirling around as tiny maelstroms through the
innumerable myriads of cells that constitute each plant and
tree.

With one exception, this water plant has never been found
or known to give trouble in any of the reservoirs in the State,
and why -it has infested the high service reservoir is not apparent as yet, although close study has and is being made to
find out. It was first discovered in the early summer growing
in green tangled masses or patches on the bottom and sides of
the reservoir except where the depth of the water exded
about twenty feet. One singular feature, however, about this
plant was its luxuriant growth on the stone pavement of the
dam, where no vegetable matter existed to encourage its
growth. .

In form Nitella is slender cylindrical stem about oneseventieth of an inch in diameter with the longer stems measuring about two feet in length. On each stem are eight needle  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
like branches growing in whorls or circlets spaced from one to
two inches apart. The plant is not free swimming like some
of its Algaean allies but attaches itself loosely by delicate
rootlets to the bottom and sides of the reservoir.
When this weed is taken out of the water, the odor from
it, as observed, is unpleasantly pungent, resembling that from
a skunk, while the odor from the water, especially that drawn
from the tap, resembles that of sulphurated hydrogen.
In the reservoir no odor or taste was observed at or near
the surface of the water, and only in its lower layers near the |
bottom. If further study still proves this to be the case, the
water entering the pipe system through the gate house should |
be drawn from the surface or near the surface of the reservoir, and not from near the bottom as is now done.
Towards the middle of the summer the reservoir became
more foul and had to be cut out of the system entirely. A
short time ago it was emptied in order to see what effect the
winter’s frost might have upon it, as the first step taken to prevent recurrence of the trouble. :
While the odor from the water caused by this weed is a
very disagreeable one, it is not considered injurious to health
no more than are these found in Ashley or Whiting street reservoirs, which have never been known to cause illness of any
kind.
On account of the mineral matters contained in this plant
being chiefly lime which was found to be about twenty-five per
cent of its total composition, it is rather strange to find it
growing so luxuriantly in water so comparatively free from
lime. This is indicated by the degree of hardness of the water
which this department, as well as the State Board of Health,
has found by analyses not to be higher than two and half
parts in hundred thousand parts of water or hardness somewhat lower than that found in the waters of either Ashley or
Whiting street reservoirs, thus suggesting smaller quantity |
of lime in the high service water than in the waters of either
of the latter reservoirs.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  

Shortly before the discovery of Nitella, another organism
was found in the high service known as Chlamydomonas.
This is very small microscopic animal organism about one .
two thousandth of an inch in its longest diameter. The number of these organisms found reached as high as per
gallon. To this organism was also traced another very unpleasant taste and odor observed in the water at the time as
well as greenish color on settlement of the water in basin
after being drawn from the faucet.

INSPECTION OF ELEVATORS.

In his report of last year, the City Engineer explained the |
new duties imposed upon him by the State, namely, the inspection of elevators. Until then this work was done by the State
District Police.

Not because of the extra responsibility and labor involved
in this new work but chiefly because of the many days and
weeks it would cause the Engineer to be absent from his office
where the public expect to meet or reach him at all times during office hours, it was recommended by him that the inspection of elevators together with that of buildings be cut off from
the Engineering Department and put in department for’
themselves. It was also suggested, in order to save any extra
expense that might be caused by the change, that the head of
the new department could be appointed from the staff of the
Engineering Department.

In deference to these recommendations and suggestions,
an ordinance was passed authorizing the City Engineer to appoint an assistant from his own department inspector of elevators and assistant inspector of buildimgs. This ordinance,
however, was repealed shortly after the appointment was
made with the result that the City Engineer is, since then,  nspecting the elevators himself.

In performing this duty, he thought it advisable to select
a period of the year when the other engineering work of the
department was least pressing, and therefore did not com  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER. —
mence general tour of inspection until the most important
part of the outdoor work of the city was finished or almost

. finished. This was in the end of October, since which time he
has personally inspected, together with his other work, one
hundred and twenty-six elevators and expects to have the remainder, (which is about as many more) inspected before the
outdoor work of the coming year is commenced.

| On account of absence from the office, necessitated by the

length of time it was going to take to perform the work, your
engineer likewise thought it advisable, in order to accommodate the public, to establish special office hours, namely from
eight to nine a. m., one to two p. m., and at five p. m., within

’ which time he could be found at his office.

Of the elevators so far inspected, it has been recommended that fourty-four of them be equipped with new cables,
seventy-one with signal bells, eighty-six with foot guards and
seven with automatic gates.

These recommendations must not suggest that the elevators are In dangerous or even approaching dangerous condition. On the contrary, with very few exceptions, all the
elevators so far inspected are in good condition, and if the inspector has recommended new cables for so many of them, it is
because of the extremely conservative policy followed in his
inspection, which is that all cables showing any wear by broken 
wires in their strands, shall be replaced by new ones. Besides, not only are the elevators in good condition but the
spirit manifested by individual owners and corporations alike
to keep them in this state and thus reduce all chances of accident to minimum, is to be commended. This can be seen in
the desire and willingness to adopt and act upon the recommendations of the inspector. )

From the management, superintendents and master mechanics with their assistants, not only was the greatest courtesy received by the inspector but he was also furnished with
any assistance he required in the way of help. Is it any wonder then that in doing work under such amicable conditions,

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
the destruction of suit of clothes by cable grease and machine |
oils as well as the gashing of fingers by broken wires met in
testing cables, can be forgotten ?
It is trusted that some consideration will be given during
‘the coming year to the advisability of gppointing building 
inspector who can give his whole time to the work and in which
can. ‘be included not only the inspection of elevators but also
the inspection of electric wires. ,
If such an appointment is not considered advisable and
that the City Engineer must still retain the honor, it is hoped
that he will be allowed to add to his staff competent as sistant whom he can specially assign to look after the details
. of this work.
Should this not be considered even advisable, your Engineer begs to state that he will cheerfully submit to your wisdom in the matter and that so long as you make it his duty to
inspect elevators, the work shall be as faithfully and cheerfully
performed as any of his other numerous duties, irrespective
of any time and labor involved.
, INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS. .
There were permits granted for the erection of twentyone new buildings and additions to and alterations in thirteen |
buildings, the plans and specifications of which are placed on
file in this department. )
DRAWINGS. —
- The number of drawings made and placed on file during
the year was eighty-eight. These included maps, plans and
profiles for sewers, streets, bridges, park, water works, gas and
electric lighting, land property, lawsuits, sanitaries for
schools and plumbing. Besides there were several sketches
prepared to aid in the study of the different problems to be :
, solved during the year as well as additions to maps, etc., in
order to bring the records of the office up to date.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
| STATISTICS OF THE CITY OF HOLYOKE.
Population May state census,. ..  
Population May Water Works census,  
Number of voters,. ..  
Number of polls, .)  
Public schools enrollment, day, Cooke  
Public schools enrollment, night,  
Parochial schools enrollment, ..  
Area of city, .  sq. miles
Greatest extent north and south,. ... miles.
Greatest extent east and west,. .. miles
Area of school property,  sq. ft.
Area of city parks,  ... acres
Area of City Hall and city yard lots,  acres.
Area of City Farm, Berkshire street lot, Loomis
lot, Allen lot, ete,   aeres.
Area of Fire Department property, sq. ft.
Area of Municipal Lighting property,. sq. ft.
Country roads,. ...  miles.
 City streets accepted,.   miles.
City streets unapted,  miles.
Sheet asphalt pavements, ... miles
Asphalt block, Be miles
Granite block pavements,. .. miles:
Vitrified brick pavement,. miles
Common brick pavement, ... miles.
Bitulithie pavement,   miles
Wood block pavement,.   miles
Macadam pavement,  miles:
Streets watered, . miles
Sidewalks and crossings, ... miles
Water mains  -inch and upwards in diameter, miles
Gas mains, Ce miles.
Sewers, Ceemiles
River front,  ... miles
' Steam roads, .  miles

‘ REPORT OF CITY, ENGINEER.  
Electric railroads,.   miles
Electric light and power circuits (Municipal), miles
Electric are street lights,  
Electric incandescent lights, 
Railroad stations,.  
Churehes,.  ...  
School houses,. .  
Business colleges,.  
Dwelling houses,. ..  
Police station,. ..).  
Bath houses, ..).  
Fire engine houses, ...  
Fire alarm boxes,. .-  
Hook and ladder trucks, ..  
Fire hydrants (public), ..  
Post office and sub-stations,  
Area assessed,.  acres
Valuation, personal,   
Valuation, real estate,.  
Tax rate per ,.. . 

Respectfully submitted, 
JAMES L. TIGHE, |
City Engineer.

Digitized by Google

ANNUAL REPORT
| OF THE |
School Department
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOV.  ,
oe
 .
TRANSCRIPT i» PusriisHinc Co.
| HoLyokgE, Mass. |

Holyoke School Committee
| ORGANIZATION FOR  |
OFFICE IN ELM STREET BUILDING.
Hon. NATHAN P. AVERY, Mayor.
ODILON Z, E. CHAREST,
CHAIRMAN, oe
JAMES J. O’DONNELL,
SECRETARY AND SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS.
TERM EXPIRES JANUARY.
ath (THOMAS H. SEARS,  
t large  DR. GEORGE H. CLARK,  
Ward  —DANIEL M. FOLEY,  
: Ward  —ODILON Z. E. CHAREST,.  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH,  
Ward  —JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN,  
Ward  —DANIEL F. WATERS,.  
Ward  —EDWARD J. GORMAN,  
Ward  -FREDERICK §. WEBBER,. |

 Holyoke School Committee :
ORGANIZATION FOR,  |
OFFICE CHESTNUT STREET.
Regular Meeting, First Monday in the Month.  
| (January, First Tuesday.)
Hon. NATHAN P. AVERY, Mayor.
DR. GEORGE H. CLARK,
CHAIRMAN.
JAMES J. O’DONNELL,
SECRETARY AND SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS.
, TERM EXPIRES JANUARY. |
A THOMAS H. SEARS,  
t Large  DR. GEORGE H. CLARK,  .

Ward  —DANIEL M. FOLEY, .....  
Ward  —GEORGE W. MESSIER, ...  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH, .....  
Ward  —MAURICE G. DONAHUE,  
Ward  —DANIEL F. WATERS,. ,
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH,  
Ward  —FREDERICK S. WEBBER,  

Standing Committees for  
HieH ScHoot—Messrs. Foley, Webber, Clark.
 First District—Messrs. Donahue, Webber, Clark.
SEconp District—Messrs. Baush, Lynch, Clark.
| TuHirp District—Messrs. Waters, Foley, Messier.
RuLES—Messrs. Webber, Messier, Foley.
FINANCE AND Accounts—Messrs. Foley, Webber, Dona| hue.
| SALARIES—Messrs. Sears, Baush, Waters. |
Text Books AND CourRsES oF Stupy—Messrs. Baush,
Lynch, Clark.  '
| PRINTING AND SUPPLIES—Messrs. Sears, Baush, Clark.
Music—Messrs. Lynch, Webber, Waters.
DRAWING AND WritTInc—Messrs. Donahue, Baush, Sears.
HEALTH AND PHysSICAL CULTURE— Messrs. Waters,
Lynch, Clark. |
. EvENING ScHOoLS—Messrs. Messier, Foley, Sears.
| ATTENDANCE, CENSUS AND TRUANCY—Messrs. Foley, Messier, Donahue. .

@
Calendar SCHOOL YEAR,  )
Winter Term............... begins January |
Winter Term...............ends March .
Summer Term..............-begins April —
Summer Term.............. ends June .
Fall Term..................begins August .
Fall Term..................ends December .
Winter Term................begins January .
VACATIONS. .

March to April inclusive. |

| June to August inclusive.

December to January inclusive.

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, Fourth of July, Washington’s Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day with
the day following, Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Patriots’
Day, and Labor’s Holiday.

Regular Meetings of the School Committee—The first

 Monday evening in each month at eight o’clock; except in
January, when the monthly meeting will be the first Tuesday.

Accounting Committee’s Meetings—Upon notification.

, REPORT OF
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:
The School Committee of the city of Holyoke respectfully submit for your consideration their report of the work
of the public schools of Holyoke for the year  .
The year just finished has been one of substantial progress along all school lines. Many problems born of the con  stantly increasing school population have been worked out as
completely as possible with the means at our command, and
the measure of success obtained is gratifying to all interested
citizens.
This constant increase in our school population must,
of course, make for greater financial burdens on the citizens
who maintain these schools. It is not strange, therefore, that
attention should be attracted to the cost of maintenance of
our school system at its present high standard. When, however, one considers the inestimable value of education to the
city and the individual, it must be admitted that it is the city’s
best investment, and any false economy tending to lower the
standard of the schools will not be tolerated by the citizens of
progressive Holyoke.
It might be well to note here, for the benefit of those who |
are inclined to think that the Holyoke schools are an undue
burden, that but fifty-two per cent of the school children of
the city are educated at public expense, the other forty-eight
per cent being in attendance at private and parochial schools |
maintained at private expense. It will thus be seen thatthe taxpayers of Holyoke are relieved of considerable por. REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
tion of the expense of school maintenance which they would
otherwise be compelled to bear, and were this addition made
to our present expense, it would indeed present serious 
aspect. ,

The school census returns of the year show an increase
over last year of four hundred and eighty in the number of
children of school age in the city. With accommodations already strained, it became at once question of providing for
this increase in our school population. Much has been done
during the year to terminate the congestion which has existed in various parts of the city. The new Oakdale school
has just been turned over to the School Board and will be
ready for occupancy at the beginning of the coming January
term. It is splendid building and fully adequaté to meet
the probable needs of that district for many years .to come.
At the Elm street building the overcrowded condition compelled the removal of the department offices to other quarters
in order that those rooms might be used for school purposes.
They are now ready for use and the seats are being placed
there for the class now attending in the attic room of that
building. At the Elmwood school the increased attendance
has been provided for in the old Carlton street school which
has been recently renovated for this purpose; but the sanitaries in this building call emphatically for immediate remedy.

The need of more school accommodations at Ingleside has
already been called to the attention of the Board of Aldermen
in our request for new four room building to eare for the
immediate and future needs of that section of the city. There 
is also the long standing demand for modern school building to replace the present antiquated structure at North
Chestnut street. The conditions there are well known to this
Board and need not again be gone into at length in this report. It is recommended that the incoming Board take the
proper steps to provide for this long suffering district real
modern school house. |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

During the year there have been several material improvements in the school buildings, chief among which have

been the providing of proper fire exits in the Nonotuck and
Ewingville schools, and increased sanitaries at the Appleton
street building. The most pressing material wants for the
schools are as follows:

The auditorium at the High School should be retinted,
as should also the walls of the class-rooms in the Highland
School building. The roof in the latter building is defective,
and as result the ceilings in most of the rooms are discolored and cracked by the water which comes through the roof.
Immediate measures should be taken to prevent the further
marring of this splendid building. The same trouble exists
at the Nonotuck street building, and also calls in no less urgent tones for immediate action. New floors are needed in the
kindergartens in both the Hamilton and Elm street buildings.
We again recommend that glass panels be substituted for the
present wooden ones in the elass-room doors in the Hamilton
and Park street schools. All these needs are imperative in the
interest of the best school management and should not be permitted to exist longer without protest. |

The evening school work, which is one of the important features of our school system, is constantly broadening
in scope. This year we have successfully started class in
steam engineering with an enrollment of upward of one hundred pupils, and the committee feel that the class will be a
considerable benefit to both the pupils and manufacturers of
Holyoke. The School Board takes this means of expressing
its gratitude to the various manufacturers who have so generously loaned much of the apparatus used by the department.

Within the boundaries of this committee’s report it is
hardly the function to give more than the general figures entailed in financing the School Department. The appropriation was and the total expenditures were This includes all receipts and transfers. In anticiREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
pating the future the fiscal agents must take into account the
continuous growth of the city, of the number of pupils in the
schools, of the school activities themselves, of the increased
amounts necessary to retain efficient teachers. The Committee on Finance will in their report furnish all the statistics of
moneys received and spent. It is within the province of this
committee merely to suggest that healthy look be taken into
the future and that enough finances be furnished for the conducting of school affairs to move them forward, not backward.

In conclusion we desire to thank His Honor, the Mayor,
the Board of Aldermen and the public for their confidence
and support during the past year and trust that the future
Board may enjoy the good will and co-operation so essential
to best school results.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, |
GEORGE H. CLARK,
DANIEL F. WATERS,
Committee on Annual Report.

REPORT OF THE
Superintendent and Secretary.
To the School Committee of Holyoke: |

GENTLEMEN :—I submit with great pleasure this, the forty-fifth annual report of the Superintendent of Schools of the
City of Holyoke. ,

The current year has been one of many activities, occasioned by the rapid growth of the school numbers and the desire of the school department to provide proper equipment for
their physical and mental advancement.

THE HIGH SCHOOL. oo

Very few of our citizens have anything like clear conception of the size of our High school with its pupils,
. its faculty of thirty-two members, and the quality of the
High School work.

To it is intrusted the results of our grammar schools,
and from it we expect, and have right to expect much. The
Holyoke High school can and does give good preparation for
college, for business or for general education. The numbers of its students who are successfully passing into colleges, who
are doing good work in those institutions, and who in life’s
arena are rendering good accounts of themselves, give ample
testimony of the quality of High school work. detailed
High School report of these will be found in another part of
this doeument.

For one who may not see the detailed report, desire in
passing to make allusion to the High school commercial course.
Many things have been said about the establishment of a

,  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
commercial course and great stress laid upon the brevity of
the course. While appreciate that there are many cases
helped by shorter course, the distinctive advantage of the
High school should be to develop not merely copyist in
typewriting or in office work, but to infuse such knowledge
that the spirit of initiative in directing would be materially
helped. The High school course should aim above and beyond the average commercial school along the lines above suggested. CT
| Our High school, however, cannot be expected to have arrived at state of perfection either in discipline or knowledge,
but many activities are being exercised to develop both.” The
High school faculty ‘and the teachers of the more advanced
grades of the grammar schools are being brought into ‘state
of closer understanding of their respective work. The teach-
ers of the ninth grade of the grammar schools are having ,
clearer understanding of what is expected of their pupils, and
the limitations of these pupils are being pointed out to the
High school faculty in series of conferences which we have
conducted during the year. Distinctive enlightenment ought
to mutually grow from this work, and. these conferences
‘should be continued. The responsibility for the pupils will
hereafter be more fixed; the exact requirements for entrance
to the High school have been more fully drawn, and the responsibility for the character of work coming from that institution will be more definitely placed. Oo
A number of other proposals for the advancement of the
High school are being developed at the present time, the results from which should be apparent during the ensuing year.
; pow
USE OF THE AUDITORIUM AND OTHER BUILDINGS.
It has been the continued policy of the school authorities
to foster and encourage the use of the High school auditorium
and the halls of other schools for every purpose of an educational character, and these purposes have been in no manner |
restricted to school purposes.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

The call of the parents, the call of literature, of science,
of music, has always been listened to by the school authorities
and given hearty sanction. All of these forces should be
encouraged, and any other forces that operate for the general
educational uplift of our city. Personally, believe that the
school houses should be the general social centers, radiating
the best thoughts for the improvement of our civic life.

LIBRARY.

The schools, and the present or any future libraries of
our city should go hand in hand. The functions of the librarians and the teachers have so much in common that frequent
conferences should be held between them, and the public library of our city should be used as an auxiliary of the
schools.

The libary is educational. It is the duty of the teachers

” to cultivate proper spirit of love and appreciation of the library; it is the duty of the librarian to point out its proper
usage, so that when school life ends the men and women will
expand into larger life by knowledge and love of the library.

The function of the teacher should not be limited to
school work, but should be extended to proper educational
work, and all the people of our city, whether of the grammar,
of the high or of the night school, or even those not going to
school, should have developed in them library spirit, for all
should find within the library constant friend and guide to
develop their personal usefulness and happiness.

PLAYGROUNDS. ,

The wholesome and overwhelming declaration of our
citizens favoring playgrounds is keeping up the march of
progress of school ideas.

It would seem good policy on the part of the city to combine wherever possible the general with the school playground. Playgrounds are rarely used by others during the
school session, and proximity to school, while not interfering

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
| with the school life, would make them more accessible and extend their use, besides affording distinct safety to the pupils
who oftentimes jeopardize life and limb by romping from
school into the public thoroughfares, exposing themselves to
horses and automobiles. All children should play somewhere,
and the nearer many playgrounds are to the schools the
greater will be their direct benefit for the growth and safety
of the children.
EVENING SCHOOLS.

The same high standard in the selection of the evening

school teachers has been obtained this year. .

The curriculum has been added to, especially along the
industrial lines. The new class in steam engineering has been
well attended, and further expansion of the evening schools
is in contemplation. In addition to the regular courses outlined at the evening school, upon the bona fide application of
ten or more earnest pupils class will be instituted and if
properly attended, continued. The purpose is, as near as fea‘sible, to adapt the High school in mathematics, language,

! science or industrial work to the direct benefit of the pupil.

The constantly increasing numbers of faithful pupils  s
the best evidence of the helpfulness of our evening schools.

, PHYSICAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS.

During the year bond of comity has grown up between
the Board of Public Works and the School Board. The general physical condition of all of our schools has been materially bettered. One must recognize the many improvements

' that have been made in the Nonotuck street school, the Appleton street school, and the West street school, in all of
which the sanitation has been wonderfully changed for the
direct benefit of the pupils in attendance.

. At Morgan school the school room walls have been tinted
in such manner as to substantially increase pleasant school

 atmosphere. .

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE, |

' fence has been constructed about the North Chestnut
street school, thus depriving the school yard of being common passageway for all travelers to the constant annoyance
of the school. :

And while all of these things have been done, there are

some things remaining which would enhance the school interests. .
SUGGESTIONS FOR PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENTS.

The walls of the High school and some of the walls of the
Highland school should be retinted, but before this retinting
the roofs on both buildings should be carefully looked after
and made waterproof, otherwise the painting of those structures would be useless; but where so much money has been
laid out so successfully to construct such splendid buildings,
they should be equally as well maintained.

The sanitaries at Elmwood demand immediate attention

because they are positively unhealthy and every effort to relieve conditions there has proved futile. rad’eal change
is needed. The sanitaries should be removed from their present quarters to some place where better draught and proper
ventilation and drainage would adapt them to proper school
service. The unhealthy vapors arising from these sanitaries and circulating about the corridors, especially on warm day,

are menace to school health.

The long used walls at West street should be brightened
with one or two coats of paint.

The halls should be brightened in the Hamilton and Park
street schools. This could be done by substitutmg ground
glass panels for the doors instead of the present wooden ones.

The recommendation to the Board of Aldermen for the
purchase of certain land, together with the location for a
proposed new school building there, will supply much
needed want for the Ingleside district.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
NEW BUILDING.

The new Kirtland school building presents splendid
type of modern school structure. good elevation, substantial building, and its many modern conveniences make it
fully adequate to do school service for its district.

FINANCES.

The question of financing the school department is very
important one in all American cities, and Holyoke in this particular is no exception.

Comments, by even fair-minded people, are many when

the department does not live within its supposed appropriation. Perhaps clearer view of the exact manner in which |

the school appropriation is determined would help materially

in dissolving this wrong impression. |

The secretary and the School Board make detailed estimate of what in their opinion is fair amount within which to
conduct the schools for the future year. This report is
brought before the Mayor of the city and Board of Estimates. All of the details are submitted and it is generally
agreed, by not only the School Board but all who are present

, at the conference, that none of these items should be omitted.
In this sense the estimate receives the sanction of all parties,
and still when the appropriation is finally given it is always
much less than the estimates submitted. At the end of the
year special appropriation is made to supply deficiency
which all parties know from the beginning must exist, and
even the well-meaning citizens point out the fact that the
Board has exded its appropriation. Such condition of
financing is sailing under false colors. If there are any unnecessary expenses on the estimates as offered, those unnecessary expenses should be pointed out, and that amount alone
elimmated from the appropriation, but if all these items estimated are approved there should be no reluctance in conceding an appropriation at least equal to the estimates.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

, sincerely trust that in the future the school authorities
and other city officials whose duty it is to determine the appropriation will carefully inspect the above suggestions. The
school funds increase; they must increase. We are in city
whose watchword is ‘‘growth.’’ As the numbers constantly
grow, so must the expenses. The question of the amount of
money expended, providing it is not excessive, should not be
the main one. The question should be: Are values being re- 
ceived? Healthy general growth in the school population of
our city is its greatest asset and is good testimony of the
eity’s progress. How many realize that the city of Holyoke,
were it not assisted by the parochial schools in the caring of
its children, would be compelled to pay  instead of
its present figure of ?

SELECTION OF TEACHERS.
The method of selecting the teachers should be changed.
In previous reports have urged this, and the result of each
year strengthens the original conviction. In the annual report
of have offered three solutions for the selection of
teachers, any one of which would be distinct improvement
over the present.

: Direct responsibility for the selection of teachers should
be vested in the school executives, guided by any general plan
of testing the teacher’s capacity, which plan has first been
sanctioned by the School Board. Whether that plan shall be
any of the three that have suggested before or any other one
is not material. If the present mode of selection is constantly
‘pursued the time is inevitable when the high character of
teachers now obtained will not be continued.

: The growth of school houses, the growth of school equipment, even the growth of school systems, while accomplishing much, cannot compensate for the loss of the high personal
touch and power in the individual teacher. The power of
selection cannot be too well guarded.

; \

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
TEACHERS’ INSTITUTE.

During the year Teachers’ Institute of considerable’
magnitude was held for two days at the High school, the  th
and  th of February. The High school work and grammar
school ‘work were conducted simultaneously. The outlines
were intended to give impetus to the teaching work of our |

—eity. It would seem as if the result had been entirely successful. The state secretary, George H. Martin, addressed the
meeting, and the entire State Board showed kindly disposition; the normal colleges were also very responsive.

The aim of the institute was to develop practical advaneed ideas in teaching, to exhibit to the teachers the best
available of modern thought along their respective lines. The
result speaks for itself and would amply warrant continuanee of such helpful school work. :

TEACHERS.

The teaching corps of our city is composed mostly of
men and women whose purpose and aim is to develop the best
there is in their pupils. Most of these teachers are efficient.
We have with us, of course, as all cities have, some teachers
upon whom time has spent its marks and whose activities are
waning, but even some of these, of the old school, leave their
distinctive and rugged impress to the benefit of their pupils. |

A more unpardonable force, and one that is with us in a
small measure, is the ‘‘perfunctory’’ teacher, who goes
through his or her purely routine work with the main ideas
for appearance, devoid of force, of scholarship or enthusiasm ;
and notwithstanding the statements of their respective principals that none of these teachers are objectionable, the tone
and character of their work must be improved in the future.
This may be developed by private study, by attendance at
conferences or perhaps attendance at the summer schools, for
without acquiring the proper degree of attention, without enkindling the spark of enthusiasm, without entering mto the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
ehild spirit in the teaching, the hoped for results are well
nigh impossible. |

To one observing the work of many of these other teachers there comes the feeling that he is observing unadvertised
people whose personality and force is ennobling, who do not
stop their task with the school work but bring cheerfulness
into blurred homes and are distinct source of help to the
boys and girls whose school days are gone. Many cases have
in mind of teachers whose unusual deeds of quiet halpfulness
in their own districts mark them as rare characters, whose
presence outside of school hours in dreary homes and whose
kindly words and watchfulness show some of the best spirit
there is in life, that of the true teacher.

Respectfully yours,
JAMES J. O'DONNELL.

REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of Music.
f
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools:

Dear Sir:—In reply to your request for the annual report of the Music Supervisor, submit the following statement of the past year of  :

The year has been very busy one in the music de .

partment, and decided gain has been made in the primary
and grammar schools. This year we have been making more
of our festive and patriotic occasions, by singing music, suit- .
able and appropriate, which the children have enjoyed.

In June the graduating exercises were held in the Opera
House, each ninth grade singing selection. The combined classes sang several choruses, which were very creditably done, and received the approval of the large audience
present.

At the High school we have been very successful, considering the time given to music. At present we have two
periods (or two choruses) each receiving about thirty minutes
each week, and where we have in all about two hundred and
seventy-five pupils taking music there should be more time
given to it.

I should be able to spend at least two days weekly at the
High school. It is very gratifying that so many take music as
a study, and to make it more effective for each pupil there
should be more time given to it.

We have been making study of the cantata entitled,
“‘The Rose Maiden,’’ by Cowan, work of much beauty,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
which hope to give as concert before long. The graduating class did its own singing, which was up to the usual
standard.
I wish here to thank the principals and teachers for

their co-operation also the members of the School Board and

‘erintendent for their confidence and support.

| Respectfully yours,

HUGH CRAIG.

REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of Drawing.
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools:

DEAR Sirn:—The great ‘‘International Congress for the
Development of Drawing and Art Teaching’’ that was held
in London last summer, indicated in no uncertain way the
amount of interest that is taken in the subject of drawing,
and the important place that—in many minds—it occupies in

: the school curriculum. People realize more and more that
educators are not considering drawing as an end in itself,
but as the ‘‘means to many ends’’ and that the study is
really practical one, fitting pupils to deal with the practical
affairs of life. ]

Increased ability to do intelligent, accurate work, along
any line, is what the teaching of drawing aims to give, by
training pupils to see and think clearly and definitely, as well :
as to express In various ways the definite ideas that have been
gained. In other words, it aims to train the pupils so that
each will be fitted to do his best at work of any kind.

 Our work has been carried on during the past year,
along nearly the same lines as for several preceding years,
except that an effort has been made to simplify the course as ‘
much as possible on account of the limited amount of time
available. Many topics that it would seem desirable to have
taught have been omitted in order that the most important

] ones might be dwelt upon long enough to make some impression upon the pupils’ minds.

 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

| With this end in view, object drawing and design have
received the most attention, and successful results have been
secured, although there is no doubt that our work in design
in the grammar schools would be more valuable if it were
correlated in greater degree with manual training. Abstract
design makes comparatively little appeal to the average pupil,
while applied design—the actual making and decorating of

 some desired object—proves strong incentive to good work.

High school pupils have had an opportunity during the
past year to apply the original designs that they have made
to various articles of use and beauty. Considerable leather
work, in the shape of bags, belts, purses, mats, desk pads, penwipers, etc., has been done, the results being exdingly attractive and arousing great deal of interest and enthusiasm. Various articles in brass work are also being designed,
such as lanterns, lampshades, trays, ete., that promise to be
as successful as the leather work has been.

Such work cannot fail to prepare pupils to better meet
the requirements and emergencies of future life; not that
these particular articles, in themselves, are of so much consequence, but that the careful consideration required to meet
certain given conditions and limitations prepares one to plan
and execute any kind of work to better advantage.

A half hour week of the pupils’ time would be sufficient to make such beginning in manual training with
almost no extra expense, and its close correlation with drawing would be an advantage to both subjects.

Owing to the increased number of schools, and the inereased emphasis that is being placed upon the subject of
drawing, the time had arrived when it seemed absolutely necessary that another assistant should be appointed in the department of drawing, particularly as it takes large part of
one person’s time to carry on the High school work. The |

 School Board have appointed Miss Grace Lynn assistant supervisor of drawing. Miss Lynn, with much natural ability,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
has had excellent training and her appointment is source
of much gratification to her associates. |
It will now be possible for the supervisors to visit Grades
I and II regularly once in two weeks, as well as all other
grades.
' We shall endeavor with our increased working force,
and with the continued co-operation of principals and teachers, to secure better results in the drawing department than
ever before. .
The Superintendent and members of the School Board
have always been generous in their support of this department and wish to thank them all for the many favors that
I have received.
Very respectfully yours,
  ISABELLE H. FERRY. |

REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of Writing. |
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools:

Dear Sir:—Written language is necessity to children
all through their school career, hence they should be introduced to actual writing as early as possible. It is necessary
they be given knowledge of perfect form, and free movement, so that correct manner of execution may be attained.
It has been our aim during the past year to so systemize the
special work, that it would correlate with all branches of miscellaneous writing.

Writing requires free movement of the pen, therefore
many exereises have been given to insure correct pen holding,
with the result of great improvement along this line. The

' writing books, always important because they present to the
child perfectly formed copy, have been carefully inspected
‘ at each lesson and the individual progress noted.
| Altogether the past year has been most successful. The
results obtained in this department can be briefly stated in 
the following: We have in the higher grammar grades hundreds of pupils between the ages of twelve and fifteen, who
write clear, legible hand suitable for business purposes.

In closing allow me to extend my thanks to‘all who have

co-operated with me, for their courtesy and consideration.
Very truly yours,
ESTHER A. MacDONNELL.

REPORT OF THE
Principal of the High School. |

Superintendent James J. O’Donnell, Holyoke, Mass.:

Dear Sir:—The work of the Holyoke High School since
my last annual report was sent to you has been, in the main,
along the lines of advancement. The scholarship of the
school, think, will compare favorably with other high
schools, and our certifying privileges to colleges and normal
schools are the same as those possessed by the best preparatory schools of the country. The reports that have been received for the work of the students. who have been sent by
this school to colleges, for the last year, have been uniformly
good; some have been excellent. No student who has entered
college or normal:school has been obliged to leave on account
of deficiency in subjects.

Pupils from our school entered in the fall of the
following colleges and technical schools: Hamilton College
Syracuse University, Cornell University, Columbia Univercity, Dartmouth, Yale University, Holy Cross, Massachusetts Agricultural College, Worcester Polytechnic Institute,
Sloyd Manual Training School, Boston; Pratt Institute,
Smith College, Vassar, and Mount Holyoke.

It is true that number of students on entering the
high school are quite undecided as to what they will do when
they graduate. In this way, many do not take eollege preparatory subjects, thus making it necessary for them to remain in the school either five years, or after graduating, to
go to some preparatory school in order to prepare for college. This is condition which is difficult to entirely remedy. :

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

In the majority of cases, it would be to the advantage of
students to remain in this school where they can get as complete preparation for college, rather than suffer two changes,
a new preparatory school and then to college life.

The girls of the school are realizing more and more the
fact that vocations other than teaching are opened to them,
and more are preparing for art schools, schools for trained
nurses, library schools, and other special institutions of advanced learning. The graduating class of last year numbered ninety-six
( ), quite the largest in the history of the school. Those
chosen to represent their class on the commencement stage,
and selected from standpoint of school work, were: Emily
Gladys Bartlett, Hilda Catherine Geran, John Joseph Fitzgerald, Ellen Irene Brennan, Katherine Mary Gear, Raymond Frederick Heidner, Bessie Irene Knapp, Jeannette
Frances Sears, and Harry Ely McElwain, Jr.

Owing to greatly increased enrolment and several resignations, the number of changes in the faculty was quite
unusual. Mr. Arthur G. Host, head of the Modern Language
Department, resigned to accept similar position at the head
of the Troy, (N. Y.) High School, and -was sucded by Mr.
Franklin B. Dowd, graduate of Williams College, and a
man of number of years of experience in teaching. Mrs.
Elizabeth Galbraith, of the Commercial Department, resigned te accept position in Honolulu, Hawaii Islands;
Rose Guilfoil of the Coinmercial Department tendered her
resignation the early part of the year, and Miss Quirk of the
same department, resigned at the close of school in June.
Mrs. Theodora A. Hooker, who had been substituting in the
Commercial Department, Miss Elizabeth Hurst of Columbus, O., and Miss Grace B. Malley were aprointed to sucd
them. Miss Bertha M. Palliser of the Domestic Science Department resigned to accept position in the New York City
schools, and Miss Elizabeth Douglas of the same department
accepted similar position in the Somerville Schools. Miss

' REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. 
Helen Cronin and Miss Lena Barrus were appointed as
teachers in this department, to take charge of both the high
. school and the ninth grade work. Mr. Charles F. Johnson
of the Manual Training Department resigned to accept —
position at Westbrook, Me., and Mr. Frank Halstead was appointed in Mr. Johnson’s place. Miss Kathryn Carrigan,
Miss Sadie McGrath and Miss Lucy Hifle were appointed as
additional teachers, Miss Carrigan having Latin and French,
Miss MeGrath English and Latin, and Miss Hifle English
and Algebra.

It had been found possible to make the classes average
a little smaller than they were last year. The results of this
has shown itself in better work on the part of both pupils
and teachers. When high school class exds twenty-five

or thirty, it is difficult, in forty-five minute periods, to give
much attention to any one scholar. large number of stu- dents completing their work satisfactorily for the first half of
this year shows that smaller classes should be the rule and not
the exception. ,

It is sometimes thought that too large proportion of stu-,
dents who enter our high school do not complete the work and ss,
that Holyoke is somewhat exceptional in this respect. While
no doubt it would be better for the community’s interest if
a greater number of students took advantage of high school course, it will be seen from the submitted table that
Holyoke is no exception in this respect, and that, quite to
the contrary, its average is considerably higher than in many
cities in the state, and higher than the average of the cities
civen. The cities chosen are in the main, manufacturing centers, somewhat similar to our own city. The Jarge pereentage given in Lowell may be partially accounted for by the
fact that both three years’ and four years’ course is given —
in this school, thus making it possible for students to remain
only three years to be counted as graduates. These figures
are taken from the State Report of  and examination of

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,
the condition of the Holyoke High School at present will
show that the percentage is larger than last year, both for the
per cent graduated and the per cent from fourth to first year. .
| Per Ceat.
Enrollment Tatered Graduated Graduated ae .
Brockton,  
Cambridge,  
Chelsea,  
Everett, oT.  
Fall River,  
Fitchburg,  
Gloucester,  
. Haverhill, 
Holyoke,  
Lawrence, Lowell, 
Lynn, 
Malden,  
New Bedford, a+  
» Quincy,  
Salem,  
Springfield, 
Waltham,  
Worcester,  , 
Above average per cent graduated,  
Below avefage per cent graduated,  
‘Above average per cent, fourth to first year,.  
Below average per cent, fourth to first year,.  

, REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  .

I have also taken some interest in securing statistics
concerning the withdrawals of students for the term ending
January and find that seventy students withdrew
during this period out of an enrolment of about eight hundred. The reasons given were as follows: TIllness, thirteen;
working, thirty-one; removed from the city, six; entered
other schools, four; discouraged in studies, one; illness in
family, five; reasons not given, ten. greater effort has
been taken this year than heretofore to have the teachers become more interested in the scholar outside of school. It is
quite essential for best results that the teacher should know
‘of the home surroundings and habits of the pupil otherwise
than when he is immediately under the teacher’s supervision. Many misunderstandings are often overcome and a
greater co-operation is invariably ‘secured.

‘Parents’ Days’’ have been held three times thus far
this year. The prods from the lecture course which was very
successful this year, have been used in part to secure other
lecturers chiefly for the student body. Among them have been
Professor Grosvenor who spoke to the school on Peace Day;
Dr. Leon Vincent, who gave an address on ‘‘Parents’ Day”’
in October, on ‘‘American Humor’’; and William W. Ellsworth of New York, who gave an illustrated lecture on Abraham Lincoln on the evening of February  ,

The Manual Training Department of the school is growing and needs serious attention as to its further expansion.
Holyoke is probably not quite ready for separate Manual
Training School, and it is not needed at present, but much
could be done to increase the efficiency of that department
by installing in the vacant rooms in the basement of the
school building, suitable equipment for more practical and

. more complete work. machine shop should be established
in the near future, together with foundry, and the students
should construct from the beginning from draughts made by
themselves, certain designating models which illustrate principles in construction, both in wood and metal working.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,

I would again renew my request made in my first annual
report to you that shower baths and lockers be installed in
the basement of the building for the use of the boys who are
interested in athletics. This is matter which no arguments
are required to emphasize. trust that both the school committee and the Board of Public Works will soon take decided

'  aetion on this matter so that these needed improvements may
be installed before the spring athletic games begin. The
Park Commissioners of the city have cleared off track of
land known as the Bh Street Grounds in such manner as
to make it fairly suitable in size and shape for good athletic
field. It needs but little widening and some grading to give
us first class athletic field which should include running
track, baseball diamonds, tennis courts, and football fields, |
Athletics, while they are not the most important thing of a
school life, still occupy most important place in the
minds of healthy, active boys, and to encourage in every way
possible clean athletics, proper supervision and equipment
will have most beneficial efféct upon the entire student
body.

‘As result of the Prize Speaking Contest held last
spring, Thomas Stapleton was chosen to represent our school
at an Inter-Scholastic Oratorical Contest held in May at
Syracuse, (N. Y.) University. There were fifteen contestants
representing the high schools of the larger cities of New
York State. Mr. Stapleton was successful in winning third
prize, well deserved tribute to his individual work and the
work done in preparing him for this contest. }

The arrangement of the school program differs somewhat this year from previous years in the Domestic Science,
Manual Training and Science Departments.’ Where considerable material is necessary to be prepared, an ordinary reci- .
tation hour is not sufficient to do the work satisfactorily.
We have found that by giving double periods to the Manual
Training and Domestic Science work every day, and to the
Seience classes when they have laboratory work, that the

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. .
efficiency of the work is more than doubled; that much is
saved and the teacher can have greater time to give to
each pupil.

The two years’ commercial course is now in its second
year’s trial, and it is proving of considerable benefit to a
number of scholars who could not otherwise remain in the
school more than two years. The students who have done
conscientious work should have no trouble in securing positions in offices or in stores where such help is demanded.
Closer relation should be maintained between the commercial department of our school and the business houses of the city.
If we could know better what the merchant wanted ands he
could know better what we are capable of doing, think misunderstandings and sometimes unjustifiable criticisms would
not so frequently occur. |

A class in Irish History was organized in September
and reports twice week, being devoted to the study of
English History on other days. Two hours per week of
physical training has been required of students fm the first
and second year. These classes relieve the younger students
from the strain of the school work and at the same time,
teach them the importance of systematic and proper exercises. |

The exercises for special occasions have been of unusual
merit. They have been conducted more with an idea of selfdevelopment than in previous years. The exercises of the
senior class under the auspices of the History Department
oceurring just before the Thanksgiving recess, were in the

. nature of pageant, giving scenes from the life of Benjamin
Franklin. The Club and Phi Alpha society gave joint
program. Incidents in the life of Lincoln were well brought
out by stories, sphes and songs of the time. The Manual
Training Department contributed to the decorations of the
stage by constructing log eabin representing Lincoln’s
early home. :

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
The well-rounded product of the school should not be a
pupil who has been entirely concerned in his books, in his
sports or in his amusements. Each should contribute share
in his development. The wise teacher will instruct by arousing interest but will not be satisfied with merely securing
the attention. This is the first step, and while necessary, is
incomplete. The various phases of school life may all be
used in an imtelligent manner to secure good scholarship;
and mental discipline where play or work ealls for quick |
| thought and action, the processes which we may call mental
construction must be stimulated. To find the true co-relation
of All that goes to make up school life is the problem we are
: called upon to solve.
Extend to the High School Committee and the School
Board my thanks for their support in my year’s work.
Respectfully submitted by
HOWARD CONANT,
| Principal.

REPORT OF THE

Principal. of the Evening
Mr. James J. O’Donnell, Superintendent of Schools: ,

DEAR Sir:—When five hundred young men and women,
all of them drawn from the ranks of the wage earners, think
well enough of school to voluntarily present themselves as
members, it is pretty good evidence that the school is no longer
an experment or makeshift, but first-class evening high
school, and one which needs and should receive the very best
measure of support and encouragement. |

Having passed the experimental stage, all our energy
should now be directed toward keeping the standard of this
institution up to its proper level, and am pleased to report
that our present needs have been well provided for, and our
recommendations have been generally adopted.

For the past few years there has been considerable agita tion in favor of the establishment of industrial schools or

teaching industrial branches in our public schools, and in my
report of last year called attention to the number of young
men and women who were seeking instruction along their particular line of work or trade. This demand has been met in a
measure this year by opening class in steam engineering,
which opened with an enrolment of over one hundred men.
In view of the great success of the class in steam engineering,
I would again urge that the manual trainme department of
the day high school be opened up for the benefit of the evening school pupils. During the present vear there has been a

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

strong demand for it, and earnestly hope that another year
will see this mportant branch of educational work added to
our curriculum. With these three classes, steam engineering, manual training and mechanical drawing, we would
have laid foundation for that which we should and very
likely will eventually have, namely an evening industrial or
technical high school. |

Thus far we have made only beginning. In the annual

appropriation of the school department due consideration
should be given the development of the evening schools, for
with the introduction of additional courses of instruction
: from year to year, the expenses of the department are materially increased, and this is one branch of school work which
should be encouraged by sufficient outlay rather than crippled by lack of funds.

A word in passing of our commercial department, which
in quiet way is doing excellent work. Here, too, the practical benefit to pupils is shown by the fact that six or eight
of our boys and girls have received positions as bookkeepers
and accountants since the opening of the school in September.

We are very grateful to the manufacturers of the city
who have interested themselves in our steam engineering
elass, and contributed in no small measure to its success by
loaning the fine equipment in our demonstrating room.

Respectfully submitted,
P. J. GARVEY.

Finances and Statistics.
GENERAL STATISTICS. ,
Population of Holyoke, September,  ..  
Total valuation of property, ,  .
Total number of children of school age  to  ),  
Total number from to years of age, ..  
Total number of pupils in all schools, year ending June,  ..  
Number under years of age,.  
Number over years of age,  
Number between gnd years :fage, ..  
Average membership in all schools, ..  
Average attendance, ..  
Per cent of attendance, re  
Total income of school department,. 
Total expenditure, woe   
Expended by Board of Public Works (repairs,
buildings, fuel, power, light, water, janitors
and janitors’ supplies),  
Total expenditure for support of schools,  ,
Cost per pupil based on average membership, 
Cost per pupil based on average membership,
 Coe
Average for the state, report of  
Tax on one dollar of valuation,. .. $. 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
. RECEIPT.
Dog taxes,  
Tuition, toeee  
Sales, Coe  
———— 
Appropriation and transfers, ..  
Total income, re 
, Total expenditure, .. 
ESTIMATES.

 Day school teachers,  
Evening school teachers,  
Supervisors,  
Superintendent,  

Clerks,  
Truant officers,  
Janitors,  
Building supplies,  
Educational supplies,  
Furniture,  
Text books,  
County truant school,  

Freight, express and cartage,  

; Laundry,  
Livery,  
Office expense,  
Printing and advertising,  
Rentals,  
Transportation, 

Telephones, ,
Census,  
Unelassified,  
Total,  

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
CLASSIFIED EXPENDITURES. |
SALARIES OF SUPERINTENDENT, CLERKS AND TRUANT OFFICERS.
Superintendent—James J. O’Donnell, 
Clerks—Agnes M. Cadieux, ..  
Mary J. Callahan, ..  
Ida A. St. Martin, ..  
Truant Officers—Thomas W. Doyle,. |
Edouard Cadieux,. 
. Thomas E. Gallagher, ..  
Thomas J. Ashe (census),..  
Michael Kerin (census), ..  
Total, Coeee 
BUILDING SUPPLIES.
Batteries, gongs, ete.,.  ... 
Inkwells, ... .
Mats,  we  
Pencil sharpeners, .  
Soap, Bk  
Waste baskets, .'. 
Thermometers, Ce  
Miscellaneous, Co  
, 
EDUCATIONAL SUPPLIES.
Bookkeeping,ee
Busy work, .  
Crayon,    
Domestic science,.  .)  
Drawing,  
English,  wee  
Engineering, Ce  
‘Erasers, rubber, ..).  
Erasers, blackboard, ..  
Geography,  ...  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,
History,  ... we,  
Ink,  ww,  
Kindergarten, Ce,  
Library,  ... 
Manual training,. .  
Musi,  .’  
Paints and brushes,  
Paper,    
Peneils, ...  
Pens and penholders,.  ...  
Rules, Ba  
Science,  ...)  
Stenography, Ce,  
Writing,  wee,  
Miscellaneous, Ca  
. 

TEXT BOOKS.

Bookkeeping, Be 
Elocution, Ce  
English, ..  
French and German,. ..  
Geography, ee,  
History,  ... ee,  
Kindergarten, Be,  
Latin and Greek,. ee,  
Library,  ... en  
Manual training, Ca,  
Mathematics, re  
Musie, Ck,  
Physiology, ... ee,  
Seience,  ... 
Spanish, ea  
Stenography, Ce,  
Miscellaneous, Ce  
Tota, oo.

AWMDrANAHPOPASEBHDLNON LNrHOOCd Cdr +
MIGWOQWONMHEEABOHORA MNQHAHSS ESS “
MMMOBOAMSAMOUDSOSEHMONM AYUWOHON SHS iS
NO BMOANDANADMEOSON ONMNSCOMDODYS SON Ro)
s[BIOL ABW AOA MOMmAQOSVDHOHIHHY WNOMNON CLOW 
Ne AeENGORHORrHORRA dda  nN
tre eSeoeet aeere n
Ge he
ed
SS +: :MOSwW  sO HO s' OS :zB Ne) .
W  HSM IN IMS FQ ALL SiS a
gnoo Qty  IE NON FOR ie ON TP tisk So iA or)
TAN Oe NN Dm OH eS eo)
-uBysosIAY Wf eS ft oe ot: IN  of  nook col
mt cos ke ie oe
fs ar ei fe Sp
od -sSoatss “Ts -coosoadt ee “ce N
SEIRZEEE ESSS  SSSR L  ii &
oR LES vod Fond Voll Cn Lond Cdl Yond lon BG Condi ory or rc) Jo)
sauoqdalaL Ac NANA Adaa AANA Cf fi   ik  
Cs spe fb )
Hl INWOSCH -DOVAOCODA sf os oes fs ‘so be
Pe SOI KOMI Fs o
ISOM UMA COE HORN OHO FO FP ii at a]
ee Oo fot tet: Ss ms fit : it 
& sbi te tt ft ro
NESSCS MSD tSN Ns: Ss SVdtoce sft xX .
| Hi NS Oe OM SOMERS Fe ad
Ker eeio Mt leet PM Pl Het Fe sa
aqary Boa ie te CS Pld Awad off tl a
puvizsmMog Vo os  it oe
mi Dorit: es
fe: ar tof hs
Ct :SISDENSCOENSDSOOON™ MAaKHHis cos 
w ASL IQS OREM OSHS SSM OM DOH LL ad]
i Sih LOrsnOeNOrneordon fF raecmerd ois: oD
. jong SS ere AICO DAA MNMMDH ANNOY se onl
Oo Ct ODO NA CNHAHNNHO PANMAN ;: ‘of S.
Oo  aos a:    N
.
Ot
O Ae NMC HKOKLOONAHSesSs MSO: mH: co  er)
N CD PAHINMOEKNQMA AS SH TH 
Ne :NSSSeZS SnS EFR ESN IS ii: z
. vewe os vee ww  
ae SHOO IX mit raisons Ac ANS aa os coro: ae]
EH wo "poof oti lw
- .
( CH
Ss PO SASS SSSOOSHCIe cor of tose  aS OQ
MA LOMMOREEKMEAKOT so rir   Gio ys
oD) Ne tent AKT MAe ons er rere eras) 
e wa Py  oe em
| sanyaind pT NS SoM  tia 
iS So orie : i: |
| he an  Cf
 SN NFNTONAAARRACASO PNAHSNO: oH: pa
on  iBLRERGERARLERER CNXERS: RZ: SF |
Gnd IDSVANGGEMONGAHOU SCM SANrnmo: cam: *
g gatddng AO USHA VETS oCMTN SeNR At AS: |
[jtetorseon par tt set OD NOt OS st mt et ed es ot om Ne: |
m tel
ehe
| Pro SSM LTNNAR SDA DrEGANN se nN
| OD LS RMLMACARAMAASH  Im Ft Nn
sarjddng Sm Set ere ttesanst Dioliite if: is
| Bapimng GR USSUSS OS OAFANS PPEPE Gli] |
ee! Dibriid an as |
(|ERE GE ERR SSPRES ESSSEED Posy
Te TONITE HOC SSoS Lt i
SL IGM OCANTENNONMSEN Staines onc: a
diaH ae LEMMAS ENN NCENGD MSR ce |
|pue OJIUBLE OQETBore Oe Od Goals al Ger ae eo] rt: Sort +
 
C  at tt st he
TO EIS HOM HHKST SNA MSOSOS SItesn cts 
OQ UNAS LIS HOM MO INN SN FT OOS N
| RO THORNE HARKER ONGS Fetes: sea rar
CDOD oH Ste HEUTE KOT KA aN HH DD.  On +
Salqovoy SH OHS OCSH HL ONMMINA AKex Os EH |
! BH OMA COMNANIACNA St No oc oe an
N om met  rt 
| Se: &
. re mf. Ge \
D Sy; Sf; or oe
is re Be  go SFE
N  ot S&S Lead mo Seite |
 SN cH ado  Los ae. Sn VITHPsEay |
ir On Sc ORs ep PEs ees Sm Get UL ERTL
SPSS SEGV ste se Pst hpi sant UO se oro ue |
Q eae Amen Sette Fa kp NaAe  he
a Se MTS   MOV we RU Eee ae Rat cS TS ase |
| weSESagpeeys asef feeSet esi a
WeZaR SEBEL OOR  aS SaeGAALeCZARS
SASSO SALANSE ELAS 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE, .
SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
December,  
January, woe    
February,   
March, woe    
April,   
May, toe )  
dune,  ,
July, Soe   
August, es  )
September, toe ele)  
October,   
November,  
Total for year,. ——— 
Total receipts, . 
COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP.
Cost basedon Cost based on
. totalexpenses  teaching only
High School,  
ooimary garten
Appleton Street School,  
Elm Street School, 
Elmwood School,  
Ewingville School, 
Hamilton Street School,  
Highland School,  
Ingleside School,  
Morgan School, 
Nonotuek Street School,  
North Chestnut Street School,  
Park Street School,  
Sargeant Street School,  
| South Chestnut Street School,  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Springdale School,  
West Street School,  
West Holyoke School,  
Evening Schools:
High School,  
Appleton Street School, "
Morgan School,  
No. Chestnut Street School,  
Springdale School,  
West Street School,  
Cost of Manual Training Department (teaching and supplies), .
EXPENDITURES FOR SEVERAL YEARS COMPARED.
 
Salaries of Day Teachers and
Superintendent .............. {$  ($  ($  
Kindergarten Teachers..........  . 
Evening Elementary Schools....  . 
Evening Grammar School........  
Evening High School .............| ,  
Truant Officers..............-....  —-  
Janitors........s .- sscseeres   
Clerks... ..... sccscsesseesersee   —-  
County Truant School............  
Text Books.......................! ,  
Educational Supplies ............|    
Printing and ‘Advertising. ws  . 
Furniture................ ..    
Building Supplies ........  ... . 
Telephones .....-........+..  ...   
Livery .......... ecsec   
Transportation ...................  
Freight, Express and Cartage...  
Rentals ......   asc ses  
Laundry ........ cscs sees cent ences  
Miscellaneous and contingent... , 
$  
\

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,
STATISTICS OF ATTENDANCE.
fo bm 
mn re) ws eq
SE|S,| Fi B
wel wn we qg et Pl
/$  g]  d
SCHOOLS a} Ge oS]  eB +
BS| S| Fe | ae
: Ze  ba se| Bs
te  )
 a
High...................| |  /]. 
Appleton Street........|   |. 
Elm Street.............|   
Elmwood...............|   
Ewingville............  
Hamilton Street........)   
Highland ..............|   
Ingleside...............|  
Morgan ................|   
Nonotuck Street........|   
North Chestnut Street..|   
Park Street ............|   
Sargeant Street.........|  
South Chestnut Street..|    
Springdale. .... ......| |  ); 
West Street............/   
West Holyoke..........|  
|  S
Evening Schools:  
High.................,    |.
Grammar...... .....|   |. 
Morgan ....... ......| |   
North Chestnut Street}  
Springdale ...........| );   |. |)  
West Street..........| |  |.  

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
' NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
There are now on the pay roll (December) the following
number of persons:
Superintendent of schools,. 
Clerks,  ... wea
Attendance officers,. .  
Janitor,   
|  
Principals of day schools (large buildings),.  
High school teachers (not including principal),.  
Ninth grade teachers, . Y
EFighth grade teachers,. SUI
' Seventh grade teachers,.  
Sixth grade teachers, .  
Fifth grade teachers, .  
Fourth grade teachers,.  
Third grade teachers, .  
Second grade teachers,.  
First grade teachers, .  
Ungraded school teachers,  
Kindergarten teachers, .. |
| Assistants, ... Uh
Supervisors, |
Total number of day school teachers,.  
Principals of evening schools, Od
Evening high school teachers,  
Evening grammar school teachers,.  
Evening elementary school teachers,  
Total number of evening school teachers,  
Total number of persons on pay roll, December,
  we,  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
, APPOINTMENTS AND CHANGES—DAY SCHOOL
, TEACHERS.
DIED.
Mrs. Sarah J. C. Todd.

, RESIGNED. ,
Arthur G. Host, Maud Stebbins,
Rose M. Guilfoil, Mrs. C. J. Felton,
Charles F. Johnson, Katherine E. Sheehan,
Bertha M. Palliser, M. Anna Cavanaugh, |
Mary M. Quirk, Margaret A. Lynn,
Airs. Elizabeth Galbraith, Elizabeth Douglas.

, APPOINTED.

Jennie E. Canavan, Mary E. O’Neill,
Pearl  S. Rand, Alice M. Donoghue,
Franklin B. Dowd, Margaret A. McHugh,
Lena N. Barrus, Mary P. Bhgh,
Elizabeth Douglas, Katherine G. Sears,
Helen B. Cronin, Marie H. Eckart,
Frank Halstead, Bessie M. Dalton, |
Mrs. Theodora A. Hooker, Katherine M. Holmes,
sarah H. MeGrath, Margaret G. Haley,
Grace B. Malley, Elizabeth M. Bigelow,
Kathryn Carrigan, Bessie Cowie,
Luey A. Hifle, Agnes C. Flood,
Elizabeth D. Hurst, Josephine M. C. Gorman,
Mabel E. Waters, Annie F’, Sheehan,
Jennie B. Cassidy, Grace A. O’Neill,
Nera B. Healy, Mary E. Casey,
Katharine A. Mahoney, Grace D. Lynn.
IB. Franees Donahue,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
GRADUATING CLASS.
HIGH SCHOOL
Lucy Agnes Ahearn, William John Hogan,
Thomas Edward Ash, Raymond Stanley Judd,
Robert Preston Bagge, James Anthony Judge,
Charlotte Lou Barrows, Louise Mina Kennedy,
Emily Gladys Bartlett, Mildred Kennedy, ,
Edwina Magna Bellows, Charles Thomas Kenney,
Ellen Irene Brennan, Arthur Lyman Kinne,
Helen Gertrude Burke, Bessie Irene Knapp,
Ora Jane Cady, Fredericka Alice Loomer, "
Mary Veronica Casey, Edison Albert Lynn,
Marion Blanche Clark, John Jos. David McCormick, :
Marion Elizabeth Clark, Thomas Owen MacDonnell,
Philip Henry Clarke, Henry Ely McElwain, Jr.,
Rachel Maynard Cooke, William Henry McGrath,
Wilham George Cowie, Helena Agnes MacNaught,
Francis James Cray, Louise Lillian Mahoney,
Ethel Mae Davis, Mary Frances Manley,
Agnes Tallent Delaney, Aurela Marks,
Helen Josephine Delancey, Ethel May Miller, .
Eva Diamond, Vineent Joseph Mlejnek,
Emily May Dibble, Wanda Bertha Agnes Mlejnek, |
Howard Clark Dibble, Theodore Montealm,
Everett Mann Dickinson, Corinne Blanche Morin,
Ensign Earle Dickson, Mae Franees Murphy,
| Erna Clara Dietz, Jennie Agatha Naughton,

William Thomas Dillon, Francis Ambrose O’Connell,
Edmund Joseph Dooley, Rayvinond Scott Person,
Lilhan Charlotte Downing, George Bartlett Reid,
Gertrude Eleanor Dunn, Theresa Katherine Rohan,
John Joseph Fitzgerald, Katherine Regina Rooney,
John Joseph Fitzgerald, Mever Michael Rubin,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Harold Andrew Fitzsimmons, Elsie Alma Schenker,
Raymond James Fitzsimmons, Anna Julia Seully, —
Elizabeth Irene Frissell, Jeanette Frances Sears,
Verona Willis Garside, Pearl Tolman Shaw, .
Dorothy Ellen Gates, Mary Elizabeth Shea,
Katherine Mary Gear, John Joseph McCoy Slattery,
Hilda Catherine Geran, Thomas Henry Stapleton,
Mary Madeline Geran, Florence Ethel Stimpson,
Frank Timothy Gilligan, Irwin Dernham Strauss,
Irene Marie Louise Goddu, Irene Marguerite Sullivan,
William Francis J. Greaney, John James Tierney,
Ernest Theodore Guyott, Josephine Elizabeth Toepfert,
Lillian Frances Hallett, Ethel Frances Wall,
' Effie Hayton, Hazel Catherine Walsh,
Raymond Frederick Heidner, Florence Marion Williams,
Grace Louise Heinritz, Katherine Frances F. Wynn,
Maxwell Zimmerman.
APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.
Florence Irene Allen, Beatrice Eugenie LaFrance,
James Edward Burns, Helen Geraldine Lawler,
Charles Medley Brearley, Patrick William Lacey,
‘James Joseph Leo Bradley, Clara Lambert,
Edward Valmore Burgess, Margaret Helen Frances Leary,
Maude Clare Browne, Katharine Lewis Metcalf,
Florence Clara Burkhardt, Esther Sadie Marks,
Fdith Frances Brown, Frances Dinsmore Murray,
Beatrice Cecilia Beauregard, Frank Joseph Manley,
Florence Minerva Bidwell, Raymond James Marion,
Willington Lorenzo Cantin, George William Masterson,
Frederick Francis Cardin, Allan McKinnon,
Harold Chase Corbett, Ellen Rose McKenna,
Pereival Wilham Cummings, Ella Eva Monty,
William Myron Curley, Alice Lilhan Mulligan,
Wilma Antoinette Cornwell, Ralph Francis Murphy,
John Raymond Cunningham, (iertrude Agnes Newton,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Pearl Maude Cook, Elizabeth Evelyn Nugent,
Josephine Lucile Cooley, Grace Mae Nugent,
Beulah Mabelle Darby, Clare Eleanor O’Connor,
James Ed. Clemont Eagan, Marguerite Bradshaw Frances
Louise Gwendolyn Fenton, Parker,
Appalonia Louise Fuller, Dorothy Martha Pierce, 
Louise Margaret Franz, Harry Miller Rex,
Frank Albert Flittner, Robert Bowker Renardson,
Catherine Eliz. Fitzgerald, Thomas Howard Aloysius
Magdalene Frances Fitzger- Ryan,

ald, Grace Agnes Rackliffe,
Edna Natalie Gammage, Amelia Henry Richardson,
William Albert Grady, Zorah May Rogers,
Donald Ross Green, Mary Theresa Veronica Smith,
John Russell Francis Gilmore, Bertha Mary Sunter,
Helen Clare Griffin, Dennis Stewart Edward SulliMabel Mary Guibord, van,
Venetia Hall, Edward Joseph Sullivan,
Elizabeth McIntosh Hunter, William Sunter,
Charles Lewis Hayward,. Harold Bridgman Stedman,
George Henry Hanley, James Thompson, .

] Samuel Stanwood Holbrooke, Joseph James Tobin,

Frank Stephen Hale, Bertha Irene Wall,
Anna Catherine Horn, Carolyn Thelma Wolfe,
Ruth Louise Kagwin, Marion Wetherell,
Clarence Joseph Daniel Maec- Catharine Weiser,

Crohan, Sidney Erastus Young.

 ELMWOOD SCHOOL.

Maleomb Montgomery Auld, Frederick Herman Lubold,
Hazel Anna Bradshaw, Mederie Jerome Laporte,
Marion Cameron, Jessie May Mennell,
Anna Bertha Crosier, Marian Ashley Moore,
Georgianna Yvonne Chabott, Marion Elizabeth McLean,
Rachael Bertha Caplan, Isabel Marguerite MacMeniFrederick William Childs, gall, ;

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

| George Clark, Dorothy Seaver McLeod,
Ada Davies, Thomas Emery Matheson,
Rose Exilda Dakin, Edwin Claude Prescott,
Norman Esther Dreicorn, Marion Pauline Potvin,
Margaret Desmond, Eric Whitelaw Reed,
John Engel, Elizabeth Pringle Ross,
Gladys Mae Ferris, Grace Eleanor Roberts,
Mary Agnes Fitzgerald, Mary Agnes Shea,
Walter Glynn, Grace Estelle Shea,
Kathryn Louise Hallisey, Rose Evelyne Shea,
Hazel May Harrington, Margaret Gertrude Shea,
John MacDonald Henderson, ‘Thomas Shea,
Mabel Florence Kinley, George Stone,
Dorothy Lillian Kinley, George Snyder,
Marguerite Pauline Koegel, Raymond Bunten Thomson,
Anders Otto Kjoller, Leonard Taylor,
Eloise Eurydice Leining, Rachel Eleanor Wood,
Walter Herman Lubold, Ruth Agatha Yoerg.

HIGHLAND SCHOOL.

Pearl Imogene Abbott, Mabelle Viola Lanktree,
Donna Beatrice Allyn, William Burns Losty,
Charles Edward Bartlett, Esther Allen Madsen,
Francis Paul Browne, Mabel Louise Morton,
Joseph Edward Butterfield, Helen Phin Martin,
Homer John Bessette, Edith Mae Martin,
Philip Bond, Glady Irene Morgan,
Amedee Joseph Bourque, John Edward Mangum,
Mary Broadway, Howard Francis McCullough,
Grace Evelyn Bullard, John Seward McCullough,
Gerald James Callahan, Louis James McMaster,
Bessie Mabel Carrier, Charles Chester Mahoney,
Rose Blanche Carroll, John Alexander McAuslan,
Helen Agnes Coffey, Raymond John McCarthy,
Martha Beatrice Cook, William Vincent McCarthy,
Mae Frances Connors, Charles Gilbert Moore,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  .
Marion Lorena Dibble, Etta O’Keefe,
Lena Anna DelDotto, -. Owen O’Neil,
Hazel Dobbs, Alice Maude Pearee,
Ira Dobbs, Winifred Martina Pihl,
. Mabel Elizabeth Doyle, Thomas Edison Pope,

Agnes Rose Doyle, Harold William Pringle,
Harriet Lane Evans, Charles Sumner Roberts,
Jesse James Fairbrother, James Reardon,
Raymond Leo Flanagan, Mary Ellen Shea,
Dorothy Johnson Gill, Blanche Sinelair,
Margaret Jean Gillis, Gertrude Smith,
Daniel Griffin,  Carl Douglas Smith,

, John Cornelius Geran, Chauncey Allen Steiger,
Ellard Emile Guimond, Lawrence Stedman,
Cyril Cavanaugh Hafey,  George William Sheaffer, 
Carroll Cooper Howes, Kenneth Clement Snell,
Thomas George Hancock, *Willis Tuttle,
Claude Milton Haggerty, Helen Veronica Welch,
Mary Cornelia Haley, Edwin Francis Wesley,
Pauline Mae Hicks, William Howard Wilson,
Elizabeth Mary Horrigan, Clinton Ernest Wallington,.
Wellington Julius Jones, Augustus Walker,
Arthur Edward LaCroix, William Matthew Walsh,
Philip William Little, Charles Edward Williams.
Edith Constance La Duke, |

MORGAN SCHOOL.

Edith Evelyn Adams, Evelyn Beatrice Keeler,
Annie Abramson, Lena Katherine Keliher,
Minnie Hattie Anger, Robert Wigham Kerr,
Herve Louis Antil, Oscar Hermann Klopfer,
Ralph Jacob Bangs, Lillian Krause,
Clara Elizabeth Bartsch, Arthur Seraphin Lalonde,
Carl Harry Raesler, Cora Marie Lalonde,
Leonora Blanchard, Richard Leonard Langevin,.
Mary Louise Borlen, Carl Henry Langhauser,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL. COMMITTEE,
Rhea Amanda Brouillet, Rose Levinson,

 Charles Raymond Brunelle, Ida Mekler, |
Sepha May Brunelle, Elsie Marion Neumann,
Laura Ora Carriere, Millie Neumann,

Mary Veronica Cavagnaro, William Joseph Norton,
Theresa Veronica Crimmins, Katheryn Esther Payne,
Daniel Allen Fletcher, Alfred Plante,
Cecilia Agnes Freeman, Helen Theresa O’Donnell,
Marion Russell Fyfe, Charles Henry Roy,
Martha Gander, Vivian Blanche Roy,
Wanda Emma Gansauge, Charles Richard Schoenfeld,
Otto William Hilbert, Peter Thivierge,
George Warren Hooker, Elizabeth Fanny Wagner,
Delmer Phillip Jubinville, Elsie Pauline Wenzel.
NORTIE CILESTNUT STREET SCHOOL.
Rose Gladys Burstein, John Joseph O'Shea, :
Clinton Earle Dageett, Mary Loretta Reardon,
Mary Rita Alice Dandelin, John Lueas Stachowicz,
George Parker Ingram,  Daisy Mary Treworgy,
Wilham Francis Murray, Edith Mary Whitmore.
WEST STREET SCHOOL.

Theresa Eleanor Broderick, Arthur Lepine,
Barbara Blaney, Alphonse Charles Langevin, ,
Claudio Joseph Brodeur, Alexander Peter Marengo,
Clara Charlebois, William Joseph McGrath,
Mary Loban Clark, Wilhain Edward Murphy,
George Edwin Drake, Thomas William Murphy,

| Dorabelle Claire Dubois, Claire Cecelia Murphy,
Elin Vietoria Friberg, Christopher John Manning,
Margaret Grogan, Mary Alacoque Manning,
Alice Angelina Guullerie, Eugene O'Leary,
Ida May Gifford, Rose Genevieve Perron,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
Thomas Franeis Hogan, Hector George Ernest Potvin,
 John Joseph Harris, Joseph Shiro. .
Walter William Johnson,
| EVENING SCHOOLS. )
; BOOKKEEPING—ADVANCED COURSE.
Phihp Smith, Louis H. Daniels,
Henry Escott, William H. Greenfield,
Albert Archambault, John Murray,
Alexander Ellis, Irving Barnes,
Frederick Craven, Charles Skolnick,
William Craven, Minnie Langlois.
INTRODUCTORY COURSE. |
James Baker, Helen Kelliher,
George Longthorn, Isabelle Phillips,
Virgil Blakely, Anna Schoenfeld, .
Hector Rock, Beatrice Sellers,
Edmund Strong, Wallie Wolf.
Lena Babyoke,
MECHANICAL DRAWING—ADVANCED COURSE.
John Lynch, Myra C. Gould,
James Fyfe, Emery Peterson. |
J. Oliver Deforest,
INTRODUCTORY COURSE.
Thomas F. Crowley,  George Hegy,
Harry G. Craven, William Kurth,
Thomas Flynn, Donald MaeDonald,
John Foran, Patrick MeGarrity, |
Harold Hay, Emile Wileman.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. ,
SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING—ADVANCED COURSE.
Margaret Connor, Beatrice Murphy.
INTRODUCTORY COURSE.
Edward Kelley, Delia Shine,
David F. McBride, Mary LeBreton,
Thomas Lynch, Teresa McKenna,
Edna Battersby, Morilda Dufresne, .
Angeline Cadieux, Mae Kennedy,
Ella Donnelly, Marguerite Bangs, )
Alice Griffis, Mabel Sowden, |
Mary Rogers, Carrie Roberts.
FRENCH—ADVANCED COURSE.
| Paul Feustel,  Nellie Sullivan,
Katherine Curran, Maud Tacy.
 INTRODUCTORY COURSE.
Nonie Gee, Honora O’Neill.
GERMAN COURSE.
Fred Downs, Hattie Fitzgerald.
ENGLISH—-ADVANCED COURSE.
George Thompson, Mary Smith, /
William Moquin, Josephine Parker.
Arthur Riel, |
 INTRODUCTORY COURSE.
Adelard Vachon, Honora O’Neill,
Ethel Connor, Katherine Hogan,
Margaret Curran, Anna Smith.
Nonie Gee,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
NINTH GRADE.
Anna C. Babyoke, Peter Gammie,
Christina Blessington, Leo Gendron,
Jennie Charlebois, William M. Gray, :
Martha Clark, Joseph Gugenberger,
Mary Dooley, Harry Hunt,
Julia E. Finn, William Hunter,
Mary A. Fitzgerald, Archie Hunter, .
Annie Gammie, John Hurley,
Mary Holzman, Charles Laframboise,
Lilian V. Keane, Wiliam Kistner,
Catherine C. McMahan, John J. Leahy,
Eleanor MeNulty, Roland Miguery,
Ora A. Murphy, John MeLaughlin,
Lulu O’Brien, Henry Moquin,
Nora Savage, Jcseph MeVeigh,
Teresia C. Sopko, Harry O’Connell,
Mary G. Sullivan, Vineent Oddo,
James Aitchinson,. Daniel O’Leary,
Robert Barclay, Leo Regan,
August Beuke, Francis B. Shea,
Robert Burnett, Allen Strong,
Walter B. Clayton, John L. Sullivan,
John Gadbois, Neil F. Sullivan,
. George Tiffany.

) REPORT OF THE )
Truant Officers.

To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke:

GENTLEMEN :—The following is report of the work
performed by your truant officers for the school year ending
June and also the taking of the school census. ,

In June,  the school committee created the office of
Chief of Truant Officers and elected T. W. Doyle to the position as chief.

The committee on attendance, census and truancy appointed Thomas J. Ashe and Michael J. Kerin as assistants,

| while Mr. Cadieux and Mr. Doyle were engaged in taking the

school census and the population of the city. The latter was
found to be  and the school census  an increase
of over the census of  .

The following tables show the school census by districts,
September September and May the
gain in each district in each of these years, also the number
attending the public, private and parochial schools; the number at work and the number neither at work nor at school, ete.

SCHOOL CENSUS BY DISTRICTS.
. Districts  Tota
   sedhon    ]   
Gain over ug  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
SCHOOLS |Gain Loss| Net
Gain
Number attending Public Schools 
“ St. Jerome’s School  
or Précious Blood School 
“ ‘* Sacred Heart School  )
‘* Perpetual Help School 
“ ‘* Rosary Parish School  
“s Immaculate Conception
School 
“ Mater Dolorosa School  
“ ‘* Mt. St. Vincent School &
“s ‘*. Holy Family Institute
School  
“ ‘“ Private Kindergarten
School  
‘* Other Private Schools 
‘ at work in mills, shops, stores, etc.  
‘ not at work nor at school 
‘* minding house or honsework 
‘* sick or otherwise effected  
| |
Total.  ..). 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
The following table shows the number of children in ‘
 each district neither at work nor at school between the ages
of five and fifteen to be two hundred and ninety-five, one
hundred and thirty more than in  Two hundred and
twenty-three of these are under the school age (seven years),
and are not obliged to attend school. Forty-one are over fourteen, the compulsory age, leaving thirty-one children between
the ages of seven and fourteen who are not attending school,
some of these for the want of sufficient clothing; others belong to the floating class.
oir il oaialr Silo
oe hp tt hoe  ol/ wi Sis
uw  oe om ms  a
pstricts §/ )/s/ 
o  ose )
E\ /Z 
oi jealiealols dD isli/oa!io;a!]|sels
mele ala |S gia imial|miale
- fp |
   BL || | fay lol   BY P|  |
  P|  po   
—— ——— ——- §- —- |
Total, ian  
. |
Districts /slel  s|  pe  
Mills, shops and stores sl 
Minding house  “| 
Total for } 
Total for  )/ rn 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
. ABSENTEES REPORTED.
| NN
;  rlrlianlanininioniz
S fo) oS on) on) So S
fo) oOoo oS for)Oo—
- mo re rm me re aa rm me Es
SCHOOLS  -|oforft stella giele s
ai is  qd eH
 oi zlalSjelaelaelsei  .
Chestnut Street,   
Appleton Street,  
Elm Street, iH  
S. Chestnut Street,| 
Nonotuck Street,   Park Street,   
Hamilton Street,   
Sargeant Street, 
West Street,   
Highlands, |
Springdale, .
South Street,  TT)  
Morgan,   
St. Jerome’s,   
Precious Blood,  
Sacred Heart. §&  
Perpetual Help,  
Rosary Parish. lt)  
Immaculate Con.,  en) 
Mater Dolorosa,  
— eacle we ew wees
Total,   
i |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED. ,
[|e it  is  GO D

$ )  

SCHOOLS ees een een eres nen   een anes oe

Ble leigl/ele ele lel ale

BO /a;/Siel/sli(ale]s

;nN SRNR NE SUS ROSS SS OU OE OE —
Chestnut Street,  
Appleton Street,  Qui 

| Elm Street,   
S. Chestnut Street,;  
Nonotuck Street, 
Park Street,   
Hamilton Street,  
Sargeant Street, ))—ClCB
West Street,   

' Highlands, |

Springdale, 
South Street, ri 
Morgan, );   
St. Jerome’s,  
Precious Blood,   
Sacred Heart,  
Perpetual Help,   
Rosary Parish. 
Immaculate Con.,  
Mater Dolorosa, 
Total, BOL} 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTFE.  
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
mlrleierlo|lnininixn|o
sieigisis/s/ ]
re re bom boom)  oe Se Sa 
SCHOOLS Ji ci e)e)sleleleisle &
Ble is /SlaiQigiaje/g|&
Slolziaélsiflei cia
. |
Chestnut Street, Qf  
Appleton Street,   
Elm Street,
S. Chestnut Street,  
Nonotuck Street,  
Park Street,  
Hamilton Street, 
Sargeant Street,
West Street, af gh i) a)  
Highlands, |
Springdale,  
South Street,  
Morgan,   
St. Jerome's. ); 
Precious Blood,  
Sacred Heart,  
Perpetual Help,   
Rosary Parish, 
Immaculate Con.,  
Mater Dolorosa, 
j
ee ee
| |
Total, sd  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,
RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE STREETS.
: s{sis|sigi|sligis |alg
f) for) fon) oOo fon) Oofon) oO —
Soma to  vu om ro mm e
SCHOOLS elel al:  $s
aie ls|/$ si/ /S/alaelie Sle ;si))a  
Chestnut Street,  
Appleton Street,  
S. Chestnut Street,|  
Nonotuck Street,  
Elm Street,  
St. Jerome’s, 
West Street, 
Rosary Parish,  
Perpetual Help,  
Immaculate Con., 
F Sp ,
| :
Total, ot  
TABLE OF AGGREGATES.
n te Ene co}
is bsesiislis|  
Months  APs og  ees|/ opi E
 Aa  zn H|® Q!  aD t
Lae OH !
September, 
October, 
- November,  —s  
December, 
January, 
February,   
March,  
April,  
May,  }
June, }
|
Total, 
Pr

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
From the Chestnut Street school there were truants and
  truancies.
From Appleton Street school there were truants and  
truancies. :
From South Chestnut Street school there was truant and  
truancy.
From Elm Street school there were truants and truancles.
From Nonotuck Street schoo] there was truant and truan- ,
cies.
From Mater Dolorosa school there was truant and truancy.
From St. Jerome’s school there were truants and truancies. |
From West Street school there were truants and truancies.
From the Rosary school there were truants and truancies. .
From Perpetual Help school there were truants and  
truancies. .
From Immaculate Conception school there were truants
and truancies.
From Hamilton Street school there were truants and  
truancies.
. From ‘Park Street school there were truants and truancies.
From Morgan school there were truants and truancies.
From Precious Blood school there were truants and truancies.
| From Sacred Heart School there were truants and truancies.
From Elmwood school there were truants and truancles.
From Springdale school there was truant and truancy.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,

Total for  truants, Truancies,  
Total for  truants, Truancies,  
Less truants in  Less truancies,  

During the school year ending June there were
fourteen summonses served for truancy. Four boys were
committed to the Training school, ten were placed on probation and their cases were continued from time to time and
finally discharged. Four boys were paroled from the Training school during the past year. We now have at the Training school six boys; one of these will be paroled in February. |

From December  to December  four hun- ;
dred and ninety-eight certificates were issued to minors between the ages of fourteen and sixteen. No record was kept

| of the number of certificates that were issued to minors over
sixteen years of age who could read and write simple sentences in the English language.
Respectfully submitted,
T. W. DOYLE,
. Chief Truant Officer.

. REPORT OF THE
. :
BOARD: OF HEALTH. 
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the

City of Holyoke: ,

GENTLEMEN :—We have the honor to submit herewith for
your consideration the annual report of the Health Department, including such suggestions and recommendations as are
deemed of interest to the public.

ORGANIZATION.

The Board met February and elected the following officers: A. B. Wetherell, M. D., chairman; F. A. |
Woods, M. D., secretary. J. J. Carroll, M. D., was elected
bacteriologist March )

PUBLIC HEALTH.

The general health of the city has been good during the
year, there having been no serious epidemics of any kind.
Contagious diseases, while more or less prevalent in different

forms, were kept under ccntrol. As soon as ease of contagious disease  reported by physician, the sanitary inspector
immediately establishes quarantine so as to isolate the case
and prevent others from being exposed to the disease.

During the period of quarantine which varies from two
to four weeks according to the length of time disease is con- |
tagious, the officer visits all places under quarantine at frequent intervals to see whether anything is needed by those

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
in quarantine in the way of food, fuel, ete., and if necessary
the same are furnished by this department.

On the recovery of all those having contagious diseases
or in ease of death therefrom, the house under quarantine is
thoroughly disinfected and the inmates are then released
from quarantine.

There have been numerous requests to have patients suffering from contagious diseases placed in some hospital, but
owing to lack of any such institution the Board has been helpless.

The building of Contagious Disease Hospital will
greatly aid the Board in the prevention of epidemics.

The building of new sewers has also been helpful to the
Board in the abatement of nuisances and the control of diseases.

HOSPITAL FOR CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.

The attention of your Honorable Board is again ealled
to the urgent need of Hospital in our city. It is unnecessary in the present state of our knowledge as to the means by

- which contagious diseases are spread to enter into any long
. agrument to prove that removal to hcspital is the most effective measure for controlling them.

As to the plan of the hospital to be constructed, much
will depend upon whether all buildings are to be permanent,
or some to be of cheaper structure and renewed at intervals.

A contagious hospital in Holyoke is necessity; the
Board strongly recommends its immediate establishment.

) UNDERTAKERS.

Thirteen licenses have been granted to engage in
this business during the year.

SAUSAGE MANUFACTURERS.

Six licenses have been granted for the manufacture
of sausage and prepared meat.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.  
BARBER SHOPS.

There has been two general inspections of the Barber
Shops and with few exceptions, they are in good sanitary
condition. Notices were sent in few cases and the orders.
were complied with.

The various bakeries have had two general inspections as
well as frequent inspections by the Health Officer during the
year. The conditions are the same as in former years.

COLLECTION OF GARBAGE.

, During the year the collection of garbage has been in
the hands of the Department of Public Works. Complaints
for non-colleetion have come to this department and have
been in turn given to the department of Public Works. Bitter criticism has been heaped upon the Health Officer by irate
citizens whcse garbage collections had been neglected. The |
publie should understand that if there is cause for criticism
the fault lies with the collector, and that the best we can do
for them is to report their complaints to the department that
has charge of the garbage collection.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS.

Medical inspection of the pupils in the schools has been
continued alcng the lines followed since its establishment. Its
usefulness would be much imecreased by more frequent inspections, but for the limited amount of mcney at our dispcsal the results are the best that can be accomplished.

The inspectors’ reports during the year show that about
two hundred and fifty children have been sent home from ;
school in need of medical attention, suffering from the following diseases:

Defective eyesight, ... 
Defective hearmg, .  
Eartroubles,.  
.  YYfonsilitis, . 

' REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Suspicious throats, .  
Whooping cough,. .  
Chicken pox,. .  
Impetigo Contagiosm, .  
Pedieulosis, G
Ringworm, .  se
- Seabies,,  ...  
Kezema, .-.     
Other skin diseases,.  ...  
Abseesses,  ea a
TABLE A.
Showing the comparative number of deaths, still-births
and death rates for the year  inclusive:
! Deaths Still-births Total Death rate
|  re  re  re  re oT  re  re  
|  Ce  Boe   .
|   re  Coe  re  re  toe   Cee  

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.  
TABLE B.
Showing the deaths and still-births during the year.  Deaths Still-births Total
December,.   
January,   
February, .-. ..  
Mareh,. .:. 
Apri,  ee,  
May,  d

" Jume,.  
July,  ... 
August, ..  
September, Coke d
October, .).  
November,.   Td

Total, Cee  
" TABLE C. |
Showing sex of deaths and still-births during  :
Males ‘Females Males Hemales Total
December,  
January,. ... 
February, re  
Mareh, ...  
April, re  
May,. ...  
June, re  
July, re  
August,   
September,  
October, .. .) 
November, ... TS
Total £ 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE D.
Showing deaths by sex and age.

Males Females Total
Under year, .. .,  
From to  re ol
From to  toe  
From to  re  .
From to  d, Bk  
From  to  
From to  ,. .. 
From to  ..  .
From to  ,. ... sod
From to  ,. ... 
From to  ,. ..  
From to  ,.  
From to  ,.  
From to  ,.  
Over  ,.  
, Total, we,  

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.  
TABLE E.

Showing the number of deaths occurring at the various

ages during each month:
Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May J’ne J’ly Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov.Total
Under year,  
From to   d
From to  
From to  ——  ————  
From to —————  
From to  
From to  ——  
From to  
From to  
From to 
From to 
From to  TT
From to  
From to   
Over   
Total,  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE F. )

Showing the number of deaths from each of the following

causes, occurring in the city during the year  :

GENERAL.
Diphtheria, Cancer of Thyroid,  
Searlet Fever, ‘"  ** Messentery,  
Membranous Croup, ve "Tongue,  
Typhoid Fever, sf €* Gall Bladder,  
Phthisis Pulmonalis,. “f  BFaee,. eo
Tuber. of Intestines, ‘f  ** Prostate, 
‘f "" Meninges, OS SareomaofLleg,.  
‘“ ** Bladder, Id “* TNntestines,  
. ** ** Peritoneum, re ‘* Uterus,  
‘e  “* Taryngitis, Epithelioma of Face,  
‘ “* Adenitis, Rodent Uleer of Face,  
Cancer of Breast,.  Chronic Rheumatism,  
‘* **Panereas, iLSyphilis, ..  
| Tiver, Septicaemia, nn
‘Intestines,  Pernicious Anaemia, dl
“f  *" Stomach, Erysipelas,  
“f  ** Uterus, Pyaemia,  
Total, Boeee 
URINARY DISEASES. |

Chronic Inters. Nephritis, Purulent Cystitis,  
Bright’s Disease,. Cystitis,.  
Acute Nephritis,.  Rupture of Bladder,  
Chronic Parenchy. Neph., Sup. Prostatitis,.  
Diabetes Mellitus, .- '. Dropsy, es |
Uraemia,. —
Total, eG


