OF THE
FOR  .
Containing the Mayor's Address
City Government Roster
Annual Reports, Ete.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN
CRIAET
  :
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CO.
HOLYOKE, MASS.
 .

|

e
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

, CONTENTS.
Mayor’s Address, . dtd
- City Government,   
Ss Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen,  
— City Officers, .  
I Election Officers,   
‘ Report of Board of Water Commissioners,  
. Report of School Department,  Report of Gas and Electric Department,  
} Report of Playground Commissioners,  
at Report of Fire Commissioners, toe  
- Report of Department of Police,  
» Report of City Engineer, oo.  
) Report of Inspector of Buildings,  
| Report of City Solicitor,  Report of Sinking Fund Commissioners,  
- Report of Board of Assessors,  
Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures,  
-. Report of Overseers of the Poor,  
‘ Report of City Treasurer,  
Report of the Board of Park Commissioners, dol
oe Report of Board of Public Works, 
Report of Board of Health,  Report of City Auditor,  ..  
- Jury List for  ,  
. City Officers,  
. Ordinances, .  
ES lo



{
|
 
. .
, ‘
 
I

C]
I
|
]
'
t
 

Inaugural Address.
OF
Mayor of Holyoke, Mass.
EG,
eS, Oe
RENEE
SMITE SY
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND ELEVEN.

|

|

|

|

,  
, |

| f
) .
|
z.
|
| |
‘y |
| Sel ‘
ee ered ESE
| us hh tk
om —s a

ais
|
|
| \,
|

JOHN J. WHITE, MAYOR

|
*
Th ke dk
rr a

’
MAYOR'S ADDRESS.
To The Honorable, the Board of Aldermen:—
FINANCES.

Despite the fact that the past year has been one
of much activity in the various departments of the city,
all the departments have closed the year with all obligations paid and in many cases with small balance
on hand, and as result we start the coming year on
a sound financial basis.

The net debt of the city is This
does not include the debt of the Gas and Electric Department and the Water Department, as these departments are obliged to meet their own obligations from
their receipts, and the above figures represent the actual
debt of the city to be met from the regular appropriation.

The borrowing capacity of the city is .
The excess of assets over the liabilities  .
This from the Assessors’ valuation some time ago and
does not include the valuation of the new William Whiting School and the Ingleside School.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.

The system of serial payments established by ExMayor Chapin has proven wise one and may well be
continued.

We have to face the coming year additional fixed
charges through laws enacted by the Legislature, relating to public health and contagious diseases and an additional fixed charge in the maintenance of the Tuberculosis Hospital of approximately  per year.

Eeonomy must be the watchword of all departments,
and while there are many things we would all hke to see
done, we must do only what our finances will allow us
to do, so that when the time comes we are to make an
accounting of our stewardship, we can do so with the
full assurance that we have done the best possible under the cireumstances.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

While I, in connection with thousands of others,
looked upon the taking over of this department by the
city as unwise, time has proven that it is possible to
make municipal lighting plant paying proposition,
and while the law does not allow us to make profit on
either gas or electricity, we are amply repaid by the extremely low price of both these commodities, and it is an
extremely large factor in building up the industrial and
mercantile business of city. ,

The coming year will see lower rate for street
lighting and consequent increase in the number of
street lights, and this will prove very gratifying to me

MAYOR'S ADDRESS.  
and to you, as believe that we are all agreed that well
lighted city is the aim of all.

The manager of this department has imparted to
us that the installation of certain new and up-to-date
machinery will enable the department to furnish gas at
approximately eighty cents, and this is worthy of our
best. consideration.

The output of the department has continued to increase and will continue, and believe the day will come
when most of our large industries will look to us to
furnish electricity for power purposes, and we should
be able to ineet this demand when the demand comes.

WATER DEPARTMENT.

One of the best assets the city has is its water department. When we read of other cities being short
On their water supply, we may well congratulate ourSelves on the foresight of our water board in providing
against any such occurrence in this city. We have a
bountiful supply of good, pure water, and need have
no fears of ever being in the predicament of one of our
Sister cities.

By act of the legislature the past term, the department was authorized to make loan of for
the construction of new storage reservoir at Southampton, with the necessary equipments.

Arrangements have been made with the owners of
land bordering on the site of the proposed new reserVoir, to take over their lands bordering on the site, and
all but one parcel of Jand have been acquired, and con  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.

demnation prodings are being instituted for the acquisition of this tract, as the Board refused to pay the
exorbitant price asked for it by the owner.

Surveys have already been made and plans are in
preparation for the new dam, the work to be pushed
rapidly the coming year.

Further improvement of the Rock cut canal is also
planned for the coming year, besides additions to the
distribution system and other changes that will add to
the efficiency of our water supply.

The financial showing of the past year in this department is, think, the best in the history of the department, and the commissioners are to be commended
for the splendid showing they have made.

During the year the Board also ascquired supreme
control over Ashley’s and Wright’s ponds, and this
makes our entire water system practically entirely
under control of our city.

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

This department of our municipality has continued
to do good work in the development of the public works
of the city. During the year two new schools have been
erected, and much needed work, both permanent and
repair, has been done. Sewers, curbing, sidewalks and
new and improved streets are essential to city, and the
department has expended the money appropriated to it
wisely and well.

, MAYOR'S ADDRESS.  
The department has much work mapped out for the
coming year, and the demands will continue to grow
and we must be prepared to meet them as far as we can
do so in justice to our city and our finances.

The people of this city might well pause to consider
that Holyoke is one of few cities where streets are accepted and put in condition after acceptance. In many
cities streets are not considered for acceptance until they
are put in proper condition, as all public streets should
be.

This entails an additional expense to the city, but I
believe it is good plan and would not advise its discontinuance.

The demands for new school buildings in Elmwood
and Ward One will come up for consideration, and we
must weigh these demands carefully, and if conditions call for these buildings we have nothing to do but
provide them.

I am firm believer in more permanent work and
less temporary improvements in the matter of streets,
and in this believe you gentlemen will co-operate with
me. dollar spent on permanent work is worth two
dollars spent on temporary work.

SCHOOLS.

The character of our schools determines to large
extent the character of our future men and women. Our
city has been very liberal in providing school buildings ;
cand necessary equipments for them, and will undoubtedly
be as liberal in the future as in the past.

|
|
  MAYOR'S ADDRESS.

We have the right to expect the best from our schools :
and believe we have been getting it and will continue !
to do so.

While we should favor all that may be necessary to
get good results, also think that we should expect
hearty co-operation of our school officials, and an entire
elimination of anything savoring of ‘‘fads’’ that are of
no practical use to the man or woman who go out into
the world to make their way.

All that is good for the development of the young.
men and women who attend our schools ought to be provided if within our means. Al] that are more in the line
of faney fads rather than good practical education that
will fit our children for their combat with the world,
ought to be entirely and permanently dropped.

This is In no sense criticism of anything that has
been put into operation in our schools, but to guard
against anything being put into operation that  not essential to the welfare of your children and mine.

I would suggest and strongly urge the adoption of
the fire drill and the carrying out of the same to the letter. To my mind there is just as much danger in fire
proof building as in ease of panic, as there is in building that is not strictly fire proof.

— With school buildings not exding three stories

high, fire drill that is insisted upon, will do more to

prevent loss of life than the complete fire proofing of a
 building. |

MAYOR'S ADDRESS.  
PARKS AND PUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS.

Our park properties are one of the good things in
our city. We are proud of them, both as beautifying the
eity and providing places where our people can go and
enjoy God’s pure, fresh air. wish it were possible to
do more in this line, but we are already one of the foremost cities in point of park area, and must for the present, at least, content ourselves with developing what we
have got.

Wading pools and other forms of amusement and
recreation that appeal to the young and draw them to
the parks rather than to points where danger lies before
them, are to be commended and hope to see more of
this work in the future.

While we have expended much money in public
playgrounds they are still in their infaney, in as much
as we have yet to determine Just what the young minds
will be content with, but am of the opimon that these
things will work themselves out satisfactorily. The fact
that there was not one drowning of child of playground
age during the vear  proof that these public playgrounds
have proved their worth.

No one will object to reasonable expenditure of
money in cause that will strike every home, and anything that will keep our elildren out of the streets where
danger lies will be welcomed by all, and up to the present
lime the playgrounds seem to have done more than anything else to accomplish this. .

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS.
POLICE DEPARTMENT.

Every man looks upon police officer as natural
enemy. This because, in the line of duty, the officer may
do something that displeases him. The laws must be enforced and should be no respector of persons.

Our police department has its faults, the same as all
police departments, but as whole we may well feel
proud of it, as our records show that our city is one of the
most law abiding in the country, and in view of the fact
that we are constantly receiving into our midst people
from all parts of the world, it is remarkable that our city
is as free from crime as it is.

Our police signal system is out of date, and is in no
way the proper system for city like ours, and this is one
thing you will have put before you for your consideration in the very near future.

A great help to our department would be the establishing of some form of traffic regulation to apply to
our principal streets. That there have not been fatal
accidents due to speed cranks is more due to Divine
Providence than good judgment, and would suggest
that committee be appointed to confer with some committee of citizens with view of regulating these conditions. As chief executive of this city, give warning
now that our streets must be safe to all who have occasion to use them. The speed laws now in existence must |
be enforced and new ones should be enacted where they
are not now sufficiently stringent.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
FIRE DEPARTMENT.

The best thing we can say of our fire department is
that it is one of the best in the country, and this we can
say in all truthfulness.

The recent equipping of automobile apparatus in
some of the houses was step in the right direction, and
we should encourage this as far as our means will allow
us.

There have been no serious fires during the past year.
and very little actual fire loss, and this speaks well for
our department, and we may well have feeling of safety
when we leave our places of business and go home for
the night, knowing that we have fire force that will
protect our property as well as mortal man could protect
it.

In all large bodies, there will be little jealousies
creep up now and then. It is my belief that our department in the main is free from these, but where these do
exist they cripple the efficiency of that particular body
of men and should be eliminated promptly.

Men should understand that the officers are in authority, and officers should understand that men are men
in every sense of the word, and are entitled to treatment
as men, and no officer should be continued in an official
capacity whe cannot understand it this way.

BOARD OF ASSESSORS.

The Board of Assessors have but one rule by which

to conduct the affairs of their department, and this is ae|
  MAYOR'S ADDRESS.
cording to and in conformity with the laws of the com- |
monwealth.
The manner in which the present board have performed their duties merits the commendation of all, and
that they stand high in the opinion of experts in the matter of taxation is proof positive that our present Board
of Assessors are doing their work faithfully, honestly
and with fair spirit to the city and the tax payer. |
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
The report of this department shows that there is
quite little to do in line of keeping up honest weight and
measures. As preventive against short measures in
the matter of purchases of the necessaries of life, much
good can be done and has been done by this branch of our
departments. find that varied list of measures,
scales, Jars, slot machines and sundrv other articles have
been examined and condemned or put in proper condition.
I also find that something like nine thousand whiskey
bottles have been examined and some condemned and
some approved.
Unless the law calls for strict examination of this
particular commodity, would suggest that this activity .
cease, aS In my opinion the more short measure whiskey
bottles we have, the better for the community and for
the ones who purchase the whiskey.
In this department would suggest that strict check
be placed on those things which come under the head of
necessaries of life.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
AUDITOR AND TREASURER.

These two offices go hand in hand, and the manner
in which both have conducted the affairs of their respective departments merits the utmost commendation.
Both men are experts in their line, and the city may feel

| sure that their interests are safeguarded by these ofhcials.
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.

The work of this department can best be determined
by perusal of the annual report, which gives detailed
statement of the work accomplished.

CITY SOLICITOR. ,

The work of the law department has been well
handled by our city solicitor, and very little has been
carried over to this year, most of this being business that
came in very recently.

TAX COLLECTOR.

Our new tax collector has taken hold of his department work with much energy and has accomplished results that testify to lis ability, and in his annual report
will be found figures that will prove that he is alive to the
needs of prompt and efficient collection of the taxes.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
BOARD OF HEALTH.

This is one of the most important boards in our municipality. The protection of health and safeguarding
against contagious diseases means much to us.

In my capacity as public servant, have not been
called upon to do anything that would put me in touch
with the workings of this department, but in my new capacity hope to be able to assist and promote any measure that is good for the protection of the public health
and safety. There is so much to be done by this department that prefer to become better acquainted with it
before would either criticise or praise.

, RELIEF DEPARTMENT.

The expenditure of this department for the past vear
has been This represents the gross amount.

There were receipts and payments from other towns
and cities of making net expenditure of .

A detailed statement of receipts and expenditures
will be found in the annual report of this department, and
should make interesting reading to those who do not know
what the city is doing for the city’s poor and needy.

Provisions have already been made for certain improvements at the city farm and for the present these
may suffice, but the demands on this branch of the department are constantly increasing, and will soon eall
for your consideration of still further improvements.

MAYOR'S ADDRESS.  
RECOMMENDATIONS.

I would recommend that competent man be appointed by the Mayor who will visit all the schools, put
the pupils through the fire drill and report to and be responsible to the Mayor for the faithful performance of
his duty. would further recommend that some action
be taken towards getting law passed that will allow us
to establish, by ordinances, regulations in regard to smoke
nuisances. While there is state law now, it is hardly the
proper thing for our city. ,

CONCLUSION. }

The work before us for the next year will require
much time and thought. There will be differences of
opinion as to what is best to do, but there can be but one
end if we all put our shoulder to the wheel and work for
the best interests of our city, and that end will be Holyoke’s best interest.

JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.
f
|

- |
| |
. |
GOVERNMENT  
- OF THE
|
a. |
|
. |
MAYOR
| HON. JOHN J. WHITE.
, PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN,
. ISRAEL DUCHARME.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
. ALBERT ARCHAMBAULT, WILLIAM G. CANTIN,
: GEORGE BARNETT, FREDERICK CHILDS,
  JOHN P. BLEASIUS, JAMES T. DEVINE,
MAURICE LYNCH.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH, EMIL F. DREICORN,
| SAMUEL BUTCHER, ISRAEL DUCHARME,
a ALFRED F. COUSINEAU, DANIEL F. SHEA,
HENRY F. TIORPE.

CITY OFFICERS.  
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Warp  —TERRENCE A. REILLY.
Warp  —ULRIC BLANCHARD.
Warp  —AUGUST W. BEY.
| Warp  —JAMES P. ROHAN.
Warp  —JOSEPH F. GRIFFIN. ;
Warp  —JOHN H. SITIEEHAN.
Warp  —WILLIAM L. FOOTE.
, CITY CLERK,
JOHN F. SHEEHAN.
CITY MESSENGER,
WILLIAM T. WALSH.
CLERK OF COMMITTEES,
JOHN C. DORAN.

Standing itt
OF THE

| Finince.—Aldermen Dreieorn, Lyneh, Childs.

OrpINANCES.—Aldermen Lynch, Sheehan, Cantin, Dreicorn, Barnett.

CLArMsS.—Aldermen Devine, Foote, Bleasius, Shea,
Blanchard. .

STREET FRANCHISES.—Aldermen Childs, Bosworth, Reilly,
Bey, Cantin.

RuLes.—Aldermen Barnett, Devine, Cousineau, Bosworth,
Lyneh.

LICENSES.— Aldermen Buteher, Sheehan, Griftin, Cousineau, Archambault.

STATE AND MiuLITARY AID AND SOLDIERS’ RELIEF.—
Aldermen Foote, Griffin, Rohan, Butcher, Archambault.

EXROLLMENT.—Aldermen Barnett, Cantin, Cousinean,
Childs, Sheehan.

Municipan Liguvting.—Aldermen Foote, Reilly, Blanehard, Thorpe. Shea.

RIVER NAVIGATION, TRADES AND INDuUsTRIES.— Aldermen
Dreieorn, Butcher, Shea, Thorpe, Devine.

Kpccartion,— Aldermen) Butcher, Bey. Thorpe, Rohan,
Bleasius.

CITY OFFICERS.
CITY TREASURER.
Pierre Bonvouloir, Office, Room  City Hall
Elected annually at the Municipal Election.
\
CITY AUDITOR. 
Daniel W. Kenney,  Office, City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.
Patrick J. Kennedy, Office, Commercial street
Appointed annually by the Board of Public Works.
CITY ENGINEER.
Timothy J. MacCarthy,  Office, City Hall
Appointed every three years by the Mavor.
CITY SOLICITOR.
Michael J. Griffin, Office, Hich street Appointed annually by the Mavor.
CITY PHYSICIAN,
George J. Hebert, M. D., Oftice, Ely street
' Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
William H. Snow.
Appointed annually by the Mayor. BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term Expires  
Adelard M. Potvin, Term Expires  
James A. Allen, Term Expires  
Timothy J. MacCarthy, Clerk. Oscar C. Ferry, Assistant Clerk.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor.
ASSESSORS OF TAXES.
Joseph J. Kelly, Chairman, Term Expires  
William G. Beaudro, Term Expires  
Jeremiah J. Kane, Secretary, Term Expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
James M. Kennedy,  Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three vears by the Board of Aldermen.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
Frank O’Connell,  .
Appointed by the Mavor.
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Patrick J. Dowd. Chairman, Term Expires  
Henry Baush, Term Expires  
Wilham J. Dillon, Secretary, Term Expires |
James T. Cunningham, Almoner,  .
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

CITY OFFICERS.  
BOARD OF HEALTH.
Arthur B. Wetherell, M. D., John J. Carroll, M. D.,  
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer,  
Appointed by the Mayor.
) LICENSING BOARD.
Dwight II. Ives, Term Expires  
Michael J. Bowler, Term Expires  
Casper Ranger, Chairman and See’y, Term Expires  
Fred Killian, Clerk.
INSPECTOR OF MEATS AND PROVISIONS. |
John M. Carlon.
Appointed by the Board of Ilealth.
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
William C. Van Tassell.
Appointed annually by the Mayor and eonfirmed by the
Board of Aldermen.
CITY AGENTS H. AND W. R. R. CO.

Fred A. Monat John J. O'Neill
Martin J. Leary Matthew B. Begley
Thomas A. Bray
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.

SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES,
Joseph D. Goddu.
Civil Service.

 CITY OFFICERS.
PARK COMMISSIONERS,
Charles E. Mackintosh, Chairman, Term expires May 
Frederick A. MeLane, Term expires May 
| James F. Burns, Term expires May 
: Richard H. Dietz, Term expires May 
oO Samuel Grandechamp, Term expires May 
i Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and eon. firmed by the Board of Aldermen.
) REGISTRARS OF VOTERS. |
; |
- Charles U. Roy, Term expires April  ’
James J. Dunn, Term expires April  Charles J. Perry, Term expires Apri]  .
- Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by Board of Aldermen.
So John F.. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
, TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.
Hon. John J. White, Mayor, ex-officio. |
 Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-oiticio. :
. Mrs. John J. Prew, Term expires March 
ot Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term expires March 
, Mrs. Kate Moymihan, Term expires March  |
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
- WATER COMMISSIONERS, |
:. |
; Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman, Term expires  
Thomas J. Lynch, Treasurer, Term expires  
) Jesse E. Sheldon, Secretary, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
§
WATER REGISTRAR.
Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room &, City Hall "
’ Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
|

. CITY OFFICERS.  
SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

John J. Kirkpatrick, Office, Commereial Street
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPII,

Thomas F. Monaghan.

Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds. )
Thomas J. Gibson, Term expires  
Lemuel Sears, Term expires  
Stephen A. Mahoney, Terin expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
CITY FORESTER.
William A. Chase.
Appointed by Board of Publie Works.
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
Marshal, Thomas J. Lyneh
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
Assistant Marshal, Patrick Herbert
Captain, Timothy Haley .
Lieutenant, Patrick E. Sullivan
INSPECTORS OF POLICE.
Peter A. Cullen Frank R. Metealf
Maurice M. O'Connor

|
  CITY OFFICERS.
SERGEANTS OF POLICE.
— Dennis Mack, William E. Blackmer
| George L. Dickinson, John J. Moriarty
Patrick F. Ryan.
PATROLMEN.
- Michael Shine, Maurice H. Shine,
: Richard Peters, Daniel C. MeCarthy,
a Thomas F. Riley, Richard E. Loweock,
  Francis M. Hastings, William Carey, |
- John A. Powers, Michael Driscoll, |
on John A. Geran, Peter J. Manning, |
Cornelius Curran, Patrick J. Kennedy,
- James B. Griffin, Edward F. Gilday,
  Jeremiah J. Linnehan, Patrick J. Driscoll, |
  Walter J. Murray, Thomas J. Rourke, |
“, James E. Malcolm, Patrick J. Gaughan, |
 John A. Vachon, Andre J. Seney, |
a Henry M. Fisher, John J. O'Donnell,
: Albert Mew, John J. Grady, |
! Maxwell McDowell, Medrie H. Beloin,
. James T. Welch, John E. Goss,
| Henry Susseneuth, Jr., John J. Austin, ,
Michael J. Clifford, Michael J. Fogarty,
Michael P. Conroy, Timothy J. Mannix,
 George W. O’Comnell, George E. Leary,
Michael J. Prendergast, Frederick W. Kuenzel,
| Michael J. Lyneh, Wilham A. Morgan,
James T. Donoghue, Timothy J. Murphy,
Rock Hl. Lalonde,  Michael J. Walsh, 
Thomas Bresnahan, Joseph A. Landry.
PATROLMEN RETIRED ON PENSION,
; John A. Davis, Cornelius J. Louney,
: Frank M. Priest.
|
:
!

CITY OFFICERS.  T
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.
RESERVE FORCE OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
William C. Bessett, Mosher street.
James J. Fitzgerald, Maple street.
Patrick J. Falvey, Walnut street.
Thomas F. E. Powers, South Bridge street.
Michael J. Herlihy, Miller avenue.
James J. Tisdall, West street. .
John T. Quinn, High street.
Albert M. Albin, Newton street.
Garret Bowler, Main street.
Arthur E. Standen, Wolcott street.
SPECIAL POLICEMEN.

Anderson, Conrad, Whiting Farm.
Allair, Napoleon, Park street. ,
Arent, Stanley A., Park street.
Avery Frank L., Hampshire street.
Axmann, Joseph, Meadow street.
Baker, Michael J., Bh street.
Baldwin W. A., Hampshire street.
Bartlett, Frederick G., Cabot street.
Bock, Carl F., Elliot street.
Brigham, Elisha N., Morgan street. .
Bunyan, John, Maple street.
Beaton, John, Hampden street.
Beaudin, Joseph, Lyman street.
Bellerose, Albert, Elv court.
Bell, John H., Cottage avenue.
Buchanen, John, Hampshire street.
Cadieux, Edward, Brown avenue.
Capen, Auburn P., Linden street.
Chezek, Joseph, Ilich street. |

 CITY OFFICERS. |
| Coe, Emerson C., Carlton street. |

| Connor, Dennis, So. Summer street.
| Corriveau, Joseph A., Center street. |

m Coulombe, Pierre, Hamilton street.

, Cronin. Daniel S., Samosett street. |
| Clifford, Patrick J., Center street.
! Conway, Patrick J., Elm street. |
"ot Connor, Charles F., Walnut street.

; Connell, Joseph J., Dwight street.
a Carrigan, Felix, Lyman street. !
Cote. Joseph, Park street.
, Dueas, George H., Hizh street. |
ol Daley, John J., Oak street. .
| Dempsey, Patrick J., Dwight street.
/ jf Devitt. John, So. Bridve street. |
- Dickinson, John C., Carew street, So. Hadley Falls.
, Doran, John C., Fountain street.
Dovle, Thomas W., Hampden street.
  Duhaime, Joseph, So. Canal street.
| Durocher, Alfred D.. Jr., Vernon street.
  Duval, Napoleon, Bond street.
. Dobbs, Ira, Nonotuck street.
| Duelos, Alphonse, Hamilton street.
“ Eger, Paul C., Park street.
Emery, Arthur, East Dwight street.
“a Evans, Charles R., Grover street.
; Emery, Napoleon B.. Oak street.
- Ezold, Emil B.. Vernon street.
, Falvey, Timothy, Pine street.
Finn, Martin, No. East street.
Fontaine, Hernenevilde, Sargeant street.
Fitzgerald, Martin, Elm street. |
, Foley, M. J.. Laurel street.
i Fortin, Lows, Sargeant street.
- Fitzgerald, Patrick J.. Pleasant street. |
cs Fitzgerald. Patrick. Bh street. )

CITY OFFICERS.  

Geissler, Car] F., Park street.

Gordon, Henry, Maple street.

(roddu, Joseph D., Prospeet street.

Goodrich, Charles H., Grover street.

Grandchamp, Charles, So. Summer street.

Gehan, Thomas J., Dwight street.

Griffin, Patrick J., High street.

Griffin, Philip, Pine street.

Gallagher, Thomas E., Dwight street.

Grise, Alphonse, Main street.

Hanley, John C., Pine street.

Ilenderson, James, Chestnut street.

Hennessy, James, Pine street.

Hills, George F., West street.

Hurlburt, Arthur P., Park street.

Haley, Michael J., Easthampton Road, R. F. D.,  -A.
, Hall, Samuel J., Linden street.

Ingram, Parker N., St. James street.

Johnson, Isaae, Franklin street.

Kelly, Thomas J., Rock Valley.

Kennedy, John J., Pine street.

Kennedy, Maurice, Elm street.

Kiely, John, Essex street.

Kingsley, Philip, Dwight street.

Klopfer. Frank E., Maple street.

Kerin, Michael, Lyman street.

Lake, Aaron W., Sinith’s Ferry.

Lamb, James, Essex street.

Lamont James, Longwood avenue.

Lachapelle, Godfrey, So. East street.

Lafontaine, Adelard. Cabot street.

Lappin, Peter, No. East street.

Leblane, Joseph, Elm street.

Lempke, Henry, R. F. D. ,

Linehan, Jeremiah, Newton place.

Little, George S., Linden street,

  CITY OFFICERS.
Lunn, Horace A., Taylor street.
Lyons, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Landry, Joseph N., Elm street.
Lapointe, Omer, So. Canal street.
Laperle, Louis, So. Bridge street.
Meehan, Frank J., Mosher street.
Meehan, Joseph, Sargeant street.
McCombs, John, Walnut street.
McDonald, John W., No. East street.
MeNaught, William, Sargeant street.
Miller, Gustav, Grant street.
Murphy, Jeremiah, So. Summer street.
Murphy, Timothy, Hamilton street.
Miller, Alexander ., Sveamore street.
Morin, Francois, So. Summer street.
McCearn, John, Suffolk street.
McCool, John, Crescent street, Northampton.
MeCarthy, Felix, Whiting avenue.
Maher, Alexander, Columbus avenue
Maloney, Timothy, John street, Willimansett.
Mercure, Alfred, Main street. 
Mulany, George A., Elm street.
Murphy, Thomas, West street.
MeKenna, Michael, Dwicht street.
Manning, Patrick J., Samosett street.
Martin John, Avon place. |
Maley, Patrick H., Elin street.
MeGuire, Arthur, Lyman street.
O’Connor, John J., City Farm, Ingleside.
O’Keefe, David, Bowers street, B. M. Passenger Sta.
O'Neill, John S., Sargeant street. |
O’Brien, John ., West street. |
Oliver, Albert, So. Summer street.
Parker, Arthur B., Maple street.
Potvin, Gilbert, Sr., Maple street.
Poutre, Ovila, So. Bridve street.

CITY OFFICERS.  
Ryan, James C., High street.
Rano, H., So. East street.
Rogers, Nelson W., Pleasant street. .
Rogers, William B., Maple street.
Roberts, Charles S., Sargeant street.
Reilly, John, Mosher street.
Redfern, Frank W., Race street.
Richardson, John F., Northampton street.
Raboin, J. Hormisdas, So. Summer street. |
Sabourin, Leopold, Park street.
Schoenfeldt, Charles L., R. F. D.  .
Skilling, Thomas, Newton street.
Smith, Charles H., St. Jerome avenue.
Smith, John F., No. Canal street.
Snow, Melvin N., Allen street.
Spencer, Henry B., Dwight street.
Stratton, Edward B., Dwight street.
Sullivan, Frank J., Elm street.
Sullivan, John B., Elm street.
Saulnier, Joseph A., Chicopee street, Willimansett.
Stronfors, Axel, Main street.
Slavin, Thomas J., South street. :
Spooner, Edgar A., Highland terrace.
Smith, Robert J., Walnut street.
Samson, Edward, Bond street.
Sanderson, Whipple R., Essex street.
St. Martin, Anthony, West Springfield.
Thompson, James, Waldo street.
Tokarski, Felix, Union street.
Tureoni, Romeo R., Maple street.
Uhlmann, Bruno, Temple street.
Vogel, Frank, James street. |
Vallee, Joseph, Pine street.
Wallington, Mark, Pear! street.
Wheeler, Fred A., Merrick avenue.
Whiteomb, Levi S., Elm street.

  CITY OFFICERS.
Williams, Fred S., Hampden street.
Wing, John, West Holyoke. |
Wooley, Arthur E., Pear] street.
Waters, Peter, Linden street.
Young, Daniel W., Linden street.
Zenner, Hugo, R. F. D.,  .
CONSTABLES. |

Valentine J. O’Donnell, Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Hillside avenue. ,
Ernest. R. Laduke, Coit street.
Leon Bliss, Westfield road.
Salime J. Benoit, Walnut street.
Fred Laduke, Coit street.
John Schmidt, So. Bridge street.
J. Sidney Wright, Taylor street.
Frederick  Williams, Hampden street.

— George A. Mulany, Elm street.
Thomas J. Cummins, Ely street.

WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.

William Hart, Newton street.
John Moore, Shawmut avenue.

MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK AND STONE. |
EK. A. Ellsworth, Essex street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotueck street. :
Timothy J. MeCarthy, Waldo street.
W. J. Howes, Taylor street, |
A. F. Siekman, Lineoln street.
J. J. Keane, Linden street.
John J. Kirkpatriek, Toward street.
M. N. Snow, Allyn street.
Wallace E. Sawin, Tavlor street.

CITY OFFICERS.  
MEASURER OF GRAIN AND MEAL,
William R. Ross, Parker street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK. .
A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
James K. Morrill.
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
James K. Morrill.
| FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O’Connell, Hampden street.
Newton F. Ifolmes, Maple street.
 FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Elin street.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Michael Shine, Nonotuck street.
Richard Peters, Pear] street. :
Harvey HI. Carter, Appleton street.
John A. Davis, Hampden street.
WEIGUERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC. .
F, A. Whitme, Main street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elin street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
C. R. Evans, Grover street.
Wilham  Thorpe, Lincoln street.
George I. Sackett, Northampton strect.
Margaret Lawless, Main street.
E. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
G. H. Lynds, Harrison avenue.

  CITY OFFICERS. .
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
Edward A. Best, Brown avenue.
William S. Bhing, Washington avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
John J. Kenney, Pine street.
Patrick Murphy, Elm street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Appleton street.
Louis Bibeau,  Race street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls. .
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
Hosea B. Fuller, Dwight street.
Michael F. Shea, Congress avenue.
William Bresnahan, High street.
B. E. Sullivan, Parker street. )
George A. Lawrence, Park street.
Thomas Shea, Elm street.
. Francis J. Linnehan, View street.
Joseph Laframboise, Prew Co., Willimansett.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Prew Co., Willimansett.
Hilarion Duhamel, Main street. |
. John Kennedy, Pine street.
Patrick J. Sullivan, Center street.
John Terman Koevel, East Dwicht street.
Arthur Zaumseil, Main street. |
James Kennessy, Pine street.
Wilham T. Wilson, Northampton street. |
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridve street. :
Bertha O’Keefe, Nonotuek street.
Wilfred Barsalon, North Bridge street. ;
Jaines A. Wall, Pine street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
Michael J. Connor, Sargeant street.
Dennis Begley, Mosher street.  
William P. Keating, Charles street.

| .
CITY OFFICERS.  
MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.

E. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street. |
Daniel O'Connell, Jr., Hampden street.
W.S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.

Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
C. B. Davis, Elm street.
F. A. Whiting, Main street.
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.

. Mauriee T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
M. E. Fitzgerald, South Hadley Falls.
Edward A. Best, Brown avenue.

John Kenney, Pine street.
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
WEIGHERS OF BEEF, PORK, MUTTON AND HIDES.
W. O. Judd, Chestnut street.
SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.
S. M. Knowles, Beacon avenue.
Casper Ranver, Appleton street.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
F. W. Ely, Locust street.
A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Lewis Warner, Pearl street.
Patrick Walsh, Dwight street.
BURIAL AGENT,
Harry Crosby, Cabot street.

- ELECTION OFFICERS.
WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Patrick Gear.
Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Shaughnessy. .
| Clerk—Charles H. Goodrich.
Deputy Clerk—Rodolphe Baillargeon.
Inspeetors—Cornelius F. Crowley, James Clark, Ernest
Prevost, Octave Langlois.
Deputy Inspeetors—Jeremiah Mannix, Michael H. Fitzeerald, Dieudonne Blain, William M,. Perry.
WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—John IH. Ryan.
Deputy Warden—Miechael MI. Murphy. .
Clerk—Wuilbur A. Robinson.
| Deputy Clerk—John Irvine.
Inspeetors—Thomas J. Maroney, Franeis J. Meehan, Wilham Vines, Henry J. Frappier.
Deputy Inspectors—John F. Kennedy, Dennis M. Haggerty, Frank F. Lipps, Perle Marrs.
WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Odilon Moreau.
Deputy Warden—Louis A. Turgeon,
, Clerk—Fred A. Monat.
Deputy Clerk—Romuald O. Lamaudelaine.
Inspectors— Hilaire Jacques, Jv, Rodolphe A. Coderre,
Henry St. Cyr.
Deputy Inspectors—CGeorge A. Lawrence, Joseph U.
Smith, George A. Tetrault, [lector Moussette.

ELECTION OFFICERS. of
WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Edward J. Whalen.
Deputy Warden—Dennis Healey.
Clerk—Joseph B. Fontaine.
Deputy Clerk—Edward Bourbeau.
Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Jr., Edward D. Welch,
John L. Fournier, Max Weisbach.
Deputy Inspectors—John C. Colton, Dennis Kelliher,
Elezar Robert, Victor Messier.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—lIsadore Davis.
- Deputy Warden—Fred T. Ball.
Clerk—Thomas E. Begley.
Deputy Clerk—Bartholomew Donoghue, Jr. 
Inspectors—F red Leining, George Barnett, Jr., Edward
Hart, Jeremiah J. O’Connor, Jr.
Deputy Inspectors—Edgar M. Osgood, Herbert L. Baldwin, August H. Baush, John H. Carroll. .
WARD THREE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Paul H. Koehler.
Deputy Warden—Michael J. Shea. a
Clerk—John F. Lowcock.
Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin.
Inspectors—John F. Higgins, John Cronin, Ernest Sattler, Frank A. Wells.
Deputy Inspectors—Joseph Kane, Charles E. Gillon,
Frederick H. Foerster, Henry J. Bey.
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.
Warden—John J. Byrnes.
Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Begley.
' Clerk—Frank F. Hamel.
Deputy Clerk—Camille L. Nadeau.

  ELECTION OFFICERS.

Inspectors—Frank Lamay, William J. Dillon, Joseph
Masse, Hormisdas Thomas. :

Deputy Inspectors—Urban Fleming, James Long, Thomas’ E. Dufresne, Adam Ostrowski.

WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.

Warden—James J. Driscoll. |

Deputy Warden—William J. O’Connor.

Clerk—Timothy F. Lyons.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph K. Menard.

Inspectors—Michael Kerin, Joseph J. MeCarthy, Levi
Russell, David A. Hendrix.

Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Shea, Chestnut street;
Thomas Ash, Edward Loiseau, Joseph Daudelin.

WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—James H. O'Connell.

Deputy Warden—Owen L. Hand.

Clerk—Henry B. Spencer.

Deputy Clerk—Edward C. Purrmneton.

Tnspectors—Richard S. Burns, Damel F. O’Connell, Ira
J. Humes, G. Herbert Foster.

Deputy Inspectors—John J. O’Connor, Dwight !
street; Patrick J. Clifford, Joseph N. Prew, George C. Miller.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Burlin M. Poole.

Deputy Warden—Charles E. Van Valkenburgh.

Clerk—Frank D. O'Connor.

Deputy Clerk—Patrick J. Dempsey.

Inspectors—White P. Bidwell, Frank E. Buekley, Thomas
J. Hart, Joseph F. Griffin.

Deputy Inspectors—Wilham A. Allvn, Charles S. Murlless, Patrick W. Fitzgerald, Thomas J. Kelliher.

ELECTION OFFICERS.  
WARD SEX—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Fred N. Ricker. )
Deputy Warden—Leander C. Hartzell.
Clerk—Lawrence F. Dowd.
Deputy Clerk—Joseph Morley.
Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles E. Watson,
Charles McCauley, James T. Devine.
Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Andrew Nye,
George A. Lee, John Vaughan.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT B. |
Warden—Edmund J. Lee. .
Deputy Warden—Peter Freeman, Jr.
Clerk—F rederick Shearer.
Deputy Clerk—Albion F. Hitcheock.
Inspectors—Vineent D. P. Sheehan, James T. Barry, Leon
D. Holmes, Wilbur H. Stedman. |
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Cavanaugh, Nicholas Cavanaugh, James E. Jagger, James Gray.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.
Warden— Willis D. Ballard.
Deputy Warden—Ceorge W. Doane.
Clerk—Thomas O’Keefe. .
Deputy Clerk—Bernard F. Bigelow. |
Inspectors—Wilham S. Thorpe, Arthur R. Root, Linus D.
Crafts, Frank L. Buck.
Deputy Inspectors—Raymond P. Allyn, Herbert C. Ke- |
gan, William R. Chase, William II. Delaney.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Walter F. Batchelder.
Deputy Warden—John M. James.
Clerk—John W. Scolley.

  ELECTION OFFICERS.
. Deputy Clerk—Richard P. Stapleton.
Inspectors—Earl J. Cain, Edwin B. Evans, William
O’Connell, John H. Delaney. ,
Deputy Inspectors—Levi E. Fay, Russell W. Magna,
Thomas E. Sullivan, Michael W. Scolley. |

THIRTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE |
@ @
Board of Water Commissioners
| OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER  ,
 
Sala D
OcnHge
Coin SY
ase CO.

| HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.
.  OFFICERS FOR  —
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman, |
Michael J. Doyle, Treasurer, .
Jesse E. Sheldon, Secretary.
WATER REGISTRAR.
Albert E. Pickup.
CLERK.
Miss Alice  S. Corner.
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan.
SUPERINTENDENT.
John. J. Kirkpatrick.
  ENGINEER,
James Li. Tighe.
ASSISTANT ENGINEER.
Patrick J. Lueey.
INSPECTORS.
James FB. Cleary,
Thomas E, Sullivan, Joseph B. Walsh
Eugene F. Kane, Daniel F. Cray

REPORT OF
WATER BOARD.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen:

The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present
the following as their report for the fiscal year ending November :

RECEIPTS.

Balance December .. 
Water rents,  
Interest on meters,  
Service pipe,  
Interest on bank deposits,  
Materials and labor,  
Hay, .  
Wood,  ,  
Apples, .  
Gravel and stones,  
Serap iron, ete.,.  
Tee privilege and supervision, —.  
Lease of land to Holyoke Street Railway Co.,  
Sundries, , OALT 

$ 

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
EXPENDITURES. ,
Main pipe extension and supplies, 
Service pipe extension and supplies,  
Main pipe repairs,  
Service pipe repairs,  
Hydrants,  
Reservoirs :
| Ashley and Wright Ponds, and Whiting
Street and High Service,  
Fomer,  
New Storage, Southampton-Westhampton,  ,) 
Supervision anJ inspection, wo  
Meters, ,  
Barn, ,  
Shop, ,  
Automobile, oo.  
Office, 
Engineering,  
Austin Goodyear (land),  
City of Holyoke, taxes,  
Interest on bonds,   |
Transfer to Sinkine Fund (bonds due in  ),  
Transfer to Sinking Fund (bonds due in  ),  
For all other purposes,  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank, 
Cash in City National Bank,  
Cash in Home National Bank,  
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  
Cash on hand,  
———  
$ 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
December .

I hereby certify that have examined the cash book and
the daily collection book of the Water Department for the fiseal year ending November found them correctly
added and the vouchers for payments properly approved.
The cash balance, has been verified.

D. W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

A brief summary of the more important features of the
work accomplished by the department during the year includes
replacing the four inch main in Bowers street and portion of
the four inch mains in Elm, Mosher, Pleasant and Sargeant
streets, with pipe of larger size. The temporarry main in Yale
street was taken up and replaced by four inch main, and approximately two hundred feet additional four inch pipe was
laid. four inch main was laid in School street from Dwicht
to Suffolk streets and the temporary main discontinued. In this
street also about two hundred feet more pipe was laid, as the
temporary main did not extend through to Suffolk street. New
mains were laid in Cvit, East, Oakwood and Queen streets.
The total length of main pipe extensions for the year, ineluding replacements and pipe laid for hydrants was feet, or
nearly miles, while feet of old four inch and  
feet of two and two and one-half inch pipe were taken up.
Three new hydrants were added and several were replaced.
The strip of roadway between Whiting Street Reservoir and
Northampton street has been repaired and improved. and the
roadway around the reservoir has also received attention. A
new pipe rail fence was built on the Whiting Street lower reservoir dam: and over feet of new pipe rail feneing has
been added to that around Ashley Pond, supplanting an equal
number of feet of wooden rail fence at the latter plaee. Five
thousand more white pine seedlings were set out around the
ponds the past year. more detailed aeeount of the work will

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD. |
be found in the report of the superintendent submitted herewith.

Under authority given us by your Honorable Board, we petitioned the Legislature for permission to borrow 
for the purpose of constructing new storage reservoir with
the necessary appurtenances at Southampton. The Legislature, by Special Act approved April Chapter  ,
granted the necessary permission, and your Honorable Board
authorized the loan. The Legislative Act authorizing the loan
is as follows:

(CHAPTER  .)
AN Act TO AUTHORIZE THE CITY OF HOLYOKE TO MAKE AN ADDITIONAL WATER LOAN.
Be it enacted, etc., as follows:

SECTION  The city of Holyoke, for the purposes mentioned in chapter four hundred and nineteen of the acts of the
year eighteen hundred and ninety-six, may issue from time to
time bonds, notes or scrip to an amount not exding one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars in addition to the amounts
heretofore authorized by law to be issued by said city for water
supply purposes. Such bonds, notes or serip shall bear on
their face the words, Holyoke Water Loan, Act of  shall
be payable at the expiration of periods not exding thirty —
vears from the date of the first issue thereof, shall bear interest at rate not exding four per cent per annum, payable
semi-annually, and shall be signed by the treasurer and countersigned by the water commissioners of the city. The city
nay sell said bonds, notes or scrip at publie or private sale, at
not less than the par value thereof, and no part of the prods
shall be used for the payment of running expenses.

SECTION  Said bonds, notes or serip shall mature and be
paid in such annual amounts as will in the aggregate extinvuish the total indebtedness ineurred under authority of this
net within the term of thirty vears herein preseribed. The

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
water commissioners shall e:tablish such prices or rents for the
use of water as to provide annually, if practicable, for the
payment therefrom of the interest upon and the principal of
the said indebtedness as it matures, in addition to all payments
otherwise required by law to be made from the said income.

SECTION  This act shall take effect upon its passage.
Approved April .

Owing to the unfavorable condition of the money market
It was thought advisable to delay issuing the bonds for time.
as the Board believed better rate could be obtained for them
later on. This did not prevent the Commissioners from proding with the preliminary work. Three competent men
were employed by the Board to appraise the property needed
for the reservoir and contiguous watershed. After obtaining
the appraisers’ report, negotiations were entered into with the
owners of the land, and after several conferences agreements
were signed by all the large owners, except those owning one
parcel, whereby they agreed to accept what was considered by
the Board reasonable price for their property. The price
asked for this other property was so excessive that if could not
be entertained. Several conferences were held with the owners
and very liberal offers were made to them, but they refused to
accept the terms offered. After exhausting all reasonable
means In the effort to come to an amicable agreement with
them, the Board decided to institute condemnation predings for the acquisition of the property and the matter has
been placed in the hands of the City Soheitor with the request
that this action be taken, )

The new storage reservoir will be on the Manhan brook,
partly in Southampton and partly in) Westhampton about
two and one-fourth niles northeasterly from the Fomer reservoir and will have storage capacity of approximately
seven hundred and fifty million gallons. The reservoir site
has been surveved and plans for the new dam are in course
of preparation. The work of construetion will be pushed
this coming vear. .

+  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

Another important Legislative Act, vitally affecting the
Board in its efforts for the sanitary protection and prevention from pollutien of the water supply of the city, was obtained only after long and hard struggle, as the bill was
not looked upon with favor by the members of our Great
and General Court when it was first introduced, and it was

a difficult matter to obtain favorable report from the Committee on Water Supply. However, with the able assistance
of our esteemed City Solicitor and City Engineer, and the
prestige and influence of our Senator and Representatives,
besides the help of some of our most influential citizens, and
with the measure strongly advocated by the local press, the
bill finally passed and was approved by the Governor on
June eopy of the bill follows:

(CHAPTER  .)
AN Act RELATIVE TO PUBLIC RiGutTs IN ASHLEY’S POND AND
. Wricit’s Poxp in THE City or HOLYOKE.
Be it enacted, ctc., as follows:

SecTION  The board of water commissioners of the
eity of Holyoke shall have the exelusive right over and control of the waters of Ashley’s pond and Wright's pond in
the eity of Tomwoke, and may prohibit all persons from entering in, upon or over, the waters thereof, and the lands of the
eity of Holyoke surrounding the same.

Section  .) The state board of nealtit shall have authoritv to make rues and regulations for the sanitary protection
of the waters of said ponds in aeeordanee with chapter
seventy-five of the Revised Laws, and all amendments thereof
or additions thereto.

SecTION  Whoever shall violate or refuse to comply
with any rule, regulation or order made by the said board
of water commissioners or by the state board cf health under the authority of this act shall be punishea by fine not ,
exding one hundred dollers for each offence.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  

Section  The superior court or any justice thereof,
shall, in term time or vacation, on the petition of said board
of water commissioners, have jurisdiction in equity or otherwise to enforce the provisions of any rule, regulation or orler made under the authority of this act, and to prevent any :
violation of said provisions, rules, regulations or orders.

SEcTION  This act shall take effect upon its passage.
Appreved June .

Under the provisions of the bill the Board of Water
Commissioners are given exclusive right over and control of
the waters of Ashley’s and Wright’s ponds, and may prohibit all persons from entering in, upon or over, the waters
thereof and the lands of the city of Holyoke surrounding the
same. The Board will now have the same control over these
ponds that it has had over all the other reservoirs belonging
to the city, and can enforce the rules, established for the protection of this water supply, backed by the strong arm of
the law.

The finanees of the department have rarely, if ever, been
in better condition, the balance on hand at the close of the
fiseal vear being or  more than the balance of the previous year, and if we add to the balance this
year the amount spent on account of the new storage reservoir, which will be paid back out of the
sum borrowed for this” reservoir, still greater inerease would be shown. The receipts from water
rates. both fixed and metered, amounted to and the total receipts were inereases of
$  and respectively. The department paid
the City Treasurer  for tax on its Construction
Account, and received from him for water rents and rental
of hydrants The interest on water bonds amounting to  also was paid by the departinent.  was transferred to the Sinking Funds from the water
rents account, and the income from the investments of the
fund amounted to The total amount in the Sink) \

a  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

ing Funds at the close of the fiscal year was and
$  of this is invested in city of Holyoke bonds. The
total bonded indebtedness of the department is .
Of this sum,  will be due June 
due January and the remaining  will not
be due until July .

The rates of interest paid on the bonds are three and
one-half per cent on and four per cent on .

The net indebtedness of the department is .

Our Superintendent reports that the water in the ponds
has been lower this year than in any year of which the department has record, but we are pleased to be able to report
that no restrictions have had to be placed upon the use of
water either for domestic or other purposes. Owing to typhoid seare, the Fomer supply was shut off, and by-advice of
the State Board of Health, the water allowed to run to waste
for nearly four months, but while the loss of the water was
a serious one for the department, particularly owing to the
dry seasons we have had, it were far better to lose the water
than to run any risk of spreading that dread disease by the
use of that supply. The water has been of good quality.
Some trouble was experienced from organisms which affeeted
the taste of the water unpleasantly to greater or less decree, though no serious difficulty was met with, as our system
is so arranged that when any one of the reservoirs is affected
it can ve shut off and the water froin another supply used,
not all of the reservoirs being Hkely to be affeeted at the
same time.

Owing to the press of other matters, the Rock Cut improvements were not undertaken this year, but the Board
hopes to be able to complete at least part of them during
 .) Further improvement of the distribution system also
is planned with view to Inereasing its efficiency.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. ol
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
 Cost reported November , 
Increase during the year:

Main pipe extensions, 

Hydrants,  

Pipe fence at Whiting street

: lower reservoir,  
New Storage Reservoir, Southampton- Westhampton,  
Meters,  
Land (Austin Goodyear),  
a 
| 
Depreciation, two per cent,  
$ 

The east iron mains were extended feet. For location, size and leneth of extensions see Table A.

The length of cast iron main is miles, and of temporary wrought iron, miles. For loeation, size and
length of mains see Tables and C.

Fifty-two gates were set in new locations. The total
number to date is  For location and size see Tables D
and E.

Three hydrants were set in new locations, and six were
replaced. The total number of public fire hydrants is  .
For location, ete.. see Tables and G. Following Table G
is summary of fire service in the various mills in the city,
which is additional to the above.
oT hirty-three meters were set in new locations, and eleven
discontinued, making the total now in use  .) For make,
size and location see Table H.

Ninety-seven service pipe connections were added during
the year, and thirteen discontinued, making the total number in use to date  .

a  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND NOVEMBER .
(Bonds Due in  and  .)
Amount reported November . 
Increase during the year:
Interest on loans on real estate, 
Interest on Bonds,  
Interest on bank deposits,  
Premium on bonds purchased,  
———-  
Transfer from water rents account,  
$ 
INVESTMENT.
Loans on real estate, . 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds,  
City of Holyoke Water Loan Bonds,  
City of Holvoke School Loan Bonds,  
City of Holyoke Sewer Loan Bonds,  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank, 
Cash in Home National Bank,  
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  
Cash in City National Bank,  
————  
$ 
Nxamined and approved,
WALTER W. EATON,
Certificd Public Accountant.
December |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. 
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE SEV.
ERAL BOND ISSUES.
(Bonds Due in  .)
Loans on real estate, . 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds,  
City of Holyoke School Loan Bonds,  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank,  
) 
(Bonds Due in  .)
Loans on real estate, oo, 
‘City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds,  
City of Holyoke Water Loan Bonds,  
City of Holyoke School Loan Bonds,  
City of Holyoke Sewer Loan Bonds,  
Cash in Home National Bank, 
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  
—  
$ 
(Bonds Due in  .)
Loans on Real Estate, . 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds,  
City of Holyoke School Loan Bonds,  
Cash in City National Bank,  
; 
All of which is respectfully submitted,
T. J. CARMODY,
M. J. DOYLE,
| Water Commissioners.

Report ot the Superintendent.

To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners :—
GENTLEMEN :—I have the honor to present the report of
| your superintendent for the year ending November .

The water in Ashley and Wright ponds has been lower
this year than any year of which we have record except "
the year  There are two reasons for this: First, this is
the third consecutive year in which the rainfall has been less
than normal and second, the water from Fomer has not been —
flowing into these ponds since the  th day of last August.
Had the Fomer water been discharging into Ashley pond as
usual, both Ashley and Wright ponds would be about three
feet higher than they are at the present time,—the equivalent of sixty days’ supply.

On August  th notice was received that there was typhoid fever outbreak in lumber camp on the Fomer water
shed. Acting under orders of your board the city engineer
and your superintendent made thorough investigation of
the cases and submitted special report on the same to your
board. As result of the investigations, the water was shut
off from both the Fomer and the High service reservoirs, the
State Board of Health was notified of the eonditions existing on the water shed, and of the precautionary measures
taken by this department. am pleased to record that not
one ease of tvphoid fever appeared in the city whose origin
eould be attributed to the water supply.

THE DISTRIBUTING SYSTEM.

Only feet, about  of mile, was added to the
leneth of water mains, making the total mileage of the mains
about mules.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. 

Very important improvements in the system consist of
replacing feet, about  of mile, of small pipes with
larger mains. The following shows the location and cost of
enlarged mains, and the location and cost of the new mains.

In Coit street feet of inch pipe was laid from end
of pipe laid in to Queen street costing .

In Queen street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Coit street northerly, costing .

In Yale street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Pleasant street easterly at cost of replacing the
temporary inch and inch pipe that was laid in the year
 .

In Pleasant street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Hampden street to Dwight street at cost of replacing the old four inch main that was laid in the year  .

In Oakwood street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Longwood avenue northerly costing .

In East street feet of inch pipe was laid from the
Lyman street main northerly to the main laid last year, at a
eost of .

In Bowers street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Dwight street to Lyman strect costing replacing
the inch mains that were laid in the years of and  .

In Mosher street an eight inch main feet in length
was laid from East street to Bowers street at cost of replacing the inch main that was laid in the year  .
, In Sargeant street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Summer street to Park street at cost of replacing
the old inch main that was laid in the vear of  .

In Elm street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Appleton street to Dwight’ street, costing replacing the inch main that was laid in the year  .

In School street feet of inch pipe was laid from
Dwight street to Suffolk street, and dead ends connected at
a cost of replacing the inch pipe that was laid in
the year  .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.

Three new hydrants were set this year at cost of
$ located, one at corner of Main and Berkshire streets,
one at corner of Yale and Folsom streets, and one on Canal
street near the Deane Steam Pump Company.

Ninety-seven new services, making total length of
  feet were laid at cost of and old servlees were replaced with lead lined pipe at cost of .

WORK AT THE RESERVOIRS.

The roadway from Northampton street to the Whiting
street reservoir has been graded and widened, and small
amount of similar work has been done on the road around the
reservoir. Considerable time and labor has been devoted to
the protection of the several sources of supply from pollution. There still remains considerable amount of such
work to be done on the Fomer shed, and trust it will receive |
your early attention. No work of permanent character has |

 been done at the Rock Cut this year, but the canal has been
dug out as the water lowered in Wright’s pond. |
Thanking you for your uniform kindness of the past
year, this report is respectfully submitted.
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
Superintendent.
|
!

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. oT
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR AS REGISTERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.
Consumption *Daily Average
 in gallons Per Capita
December,  |
January,  
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
Total consumption for
year,  
Largest week, July to  gallons, or  
gallons per day, per capita.
Smallest week, October to November  gallons, or gallons per day, per capita. .
Largest day, July  gallons, or gallons
per capita.
Smallest day, December  gallons, or gallons per capita.
*Daily average consumption, per capita, computed on
population of  from December to June  and on
population of  from June to November  .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED IN
MILLS AND SHOPS,  .
 .
December,  .
January,  
February, .  
March, .  
April, .  
May, .  
June, .  
July, .  
Aucust, to.  
September,  
October, .  
November, ,  
Total,  
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED BY
ELEVATORS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES,
 .
 .
December,  .
January, .  
February, .  
March, .  
April, .  
May, .  
June, .  
July, ,  
Aucust, .  
September, .  
October, .  
November,  
Total, .  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
TABLE A.
Statement of Location, Size and Length of Extensions.
Made in  .
$. *
LOCATION Ob)  
| U”F a
Bowers street, from East Dwight
to Lyman street,  
Coit street, from end of pipe
laid in to Queen street,  
East street, from Canal street
south,  
Elm street, from Appleton street
to Dwight street, 
Hydrants, 
Mosher street, from East street
to Bowers street,  
Oakwood street, from Longwood
avenue north,  
Pleasant street, from Hampden
street to Dwight street, 
Queen street, from Coit street
north,  
Sargeant strect, from end of
pipe laid in to Park
street,  
School street, from Dwight street
to Suffolk street, and dead
end connections,  
Yale street, from Pleasant street
east, 
Total number of feet,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE A—Continued.
Main Pipe Taken Up (Replaced by Larger Size).
LOCATION S| BOE

Bowers street from East Dwight

to Lyman street,  
Elm street from Appleton street

to Dwight street,  
Mosher street from East street

to Bowers street,  
Pleasant street from Hampden

street to Dwight street,  
Sargeant street from Summer

street to Park street, 
Yale street from Pleasant street

east, feet, inch and .

inch,
Total number of feet, ,

, REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  ]
TABLE D.
SUMMARY OF GATES SET IN  .
Location No. Size
Appleton at Elm street, west side, feet
  inches east of west line of Elm street,
  feet inches north of south line of
Appleton street (Pratt Cady), in
Appleton at Elm street, east side, feet  
inches west of east line of Elm street, )
feet inches north of south line of Appleton street (Pratt Cady),  in.
Bowers at East Dwight street, north side,  
feet inches north of north line of East :
Dwight street, feet west of east line
of Bowers street (Pratt Cady), in.
Bowers at Ely street, south side, feet  
inches south of south line of Ely street,
  feet west of east line of Bowers street
(Pratt Cady), in.
Bowers at Lyman street, south side, feet
  inches west of east line of Bowers
street, feet inches north of south
line of Lyman street (Pratt Cady), in.
Bowers at Mosher street, south side, feet
  inches north of north line of Mosher
street, fect inches west of east line
of Bowers street (Pratt and Cady), in.
Bowers at Mosher street, north side, feet  
inches west of east line of Bowers street,
  feet inches south of north line of
Bowers street (Pratt Cady).  in.
Coit at Queen street, feet inches south
of north line of Coit street, feet east
of east line of Queen street (Pratt &
Cady),   in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Location. No. Size.
Dwight at Elm street, west side, feet  
inches east of west line of Elm street,
  feet north of south line of Dwight
street (Pratt Cady), in in.
Dwight at Nonotuck street, west side, feet
west of west line of Nonotuck street,  
feet inches north of south line of ;
Dwight street (Pratt Cady), in.
Dwight at Pleasant street, east side, feet
  inches west of east line of Pleasant
street, feet inches north of south
line of Dwight street (Pratt Cady), in.
Dwight at School street, for by-pass, feet
  inches north of south line of Dwight
street, feet inches east of cast lin:
of School street (Pratt Cady), in.
Dwight at St. Jerome avenue, west side,  
feet west of west line of St. Jerome
avenue, feet inches north of soutn
line of Dwight street (Pratt Cady), in.
East Dwight at Bowers street, east side,  
feet south of north line of East Dwight
street, feet inches west of east line
of Bowers street (Chapman), in.
Elm at Appleton street, north side, feet
east of west line of Elm street, feet
  inehes north of north line of Appleton street (Pratt Cady), in.
Elm at Dwight street, north side, feet
east of west line of Elin street, feet
north of north line of Dwight street
(Pratt Cady), in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Location. No. Size.
Elm at Suffolk street, north side, feet  
inches north of north line of Suffolk
| street, feet east of west line of Elm
street (Pratt Cady), in.
Longwood avenue at Oakwood street, feet e
  inches east of west line of Oakwood
street, feet inches south of north
line of Longwood avenue (Pratt ;
Cady),   in.
Lyman at Bowers street, east side, feet  
inches west of east line of Bowers street,
  feet south of north line of Lyman
street (Pratt Cady), in.
Lyman at East street, east side, feet west
of east line of east street, feet  
inches south of north line of Lyman |
street (Pratt Cady),  n.
Main at Cross street, feet east of west
line of Main street, feet north of
north line of Cross street (Pratt &
Cady), to. Sin.
Morgan street, blow off, feet east of east
line of Parker’s House, feet south of
north line of Morgan street (Pratt &
Cady),   in.
Mosher and Bowers street, west side, feet
  inches west of east line of Bowers
street, feet south of north line of
Mosher street (Pratt Cady),  in.
Mosher at Center street, west side, feet
south of north line of Mosher street,  
feet inches east. of west line of Center
street (Pratt Cady), in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Location. No. Size.
Mosher at West street, west side, feet  
inches south of north line of Mosher
street, feet inches west of west line
of West street (Pratt Cady), in.
Oakwood street at Longwood avenue, feet
. inches east of west line of Oakwood
street, in north line of Longwood Ave- nue (Pratt Cady), in.
; Pleasant at Beacon avenue, north side,  
feet east of west line of Pleasant street,
  feet south of north line of Beacon avenue (Pratt Cady), in.
Pleasant at Dwight street, north side,  
feet inches west of east line of Pleasant street, foot north of north line of
Dwight street (Pratt Cady), in.
Pleasant at Hampden street, south side,  
feet east. of west line of Pleasant street,
  feet inches north of south line of
Hampden street (Pratt Cady),  in.
Sargeant at Bridge street, west side, feet
east of west line of Bridge street,  
fect south of north line of Sargeant
street (Pratt Cady), in.
Sargeant at East street, west side, feet
  inches south of north line of Sargeant
street, feet west of west line of East
street (Pratt Cady), in.
Sargeant at Summer street, west side, feet
  inches west of west line of Summer
street, feet inches south of north
line of Sargeant street (Pratt &
Cady),   in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Location. NO. Size. .
School at Dwight street, south side, feet
  inches east of west line of School
street, foot south of south line of
Dwight street (Chapman), in.
School at Suffolk street, north side, feet
  inches east of west line of School
street in north line of Suffolk street
(Pratt Cady) in.
Suffolk at Elm street, east side, feet  
inches west of east line of Elm street,  
feet inches south of north line of Suffolk street (Pratt Cady), in.
Suffolk at Linden street, by-pass, feet
south of north line of Suffolk street,  
feet inches west of west line of Linden street (Pratt Cady), in.
Summer at Sargeant street, south side,  
feet inches north of south line of Sarant street, feet inches east of
west line of Summer street (Pratt &
Cady),   in.
Yale at Pleasant street, feet north of
south line of Yale street, feet inches
east of west line of Pleasant street (W.
W. E. Co.), in.
GATES FOR HYDRANTS.
Location. No. Size.
Bowers at Mosher street, feet inches west
of the hydrant (Chapman), in.
Columbus avenue at Northampton street,  
feet south of the hydrant (Pratt |.
Cady),   in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Location. No. Size.

Elm at Appleton street, feet west of the

hydrant (Pratt Cady), in.
Elm at Dwight street, feet inches east of

the hydrant (Smith), in.
Elm at Suffolk street, feet inches east

of the hydrant, foot south of the hydrant (Pratt Cady), ft, in.
Elm street, between Suffolk and Dwight

streets, feet inches east of the hydrant (Pratt Cady), in.
Highland Terrace at Hampshire Terrace,  

  foot inches east of the hydrant (Ludlow),   in.
Main at Berkshire street, feet west ef the

hydrant (Smith), in.
Maple at Jackson street, feet inches east

of the hydrant (Ludlow), in.
Mosher at West street, feet nurth of the

hydrant, feet west (Chapman), in.
Pleasant at Beacon avenue, feet inches

west of hydrant (Smith), in.
Race at Cross street, feet south of north

line of Cross street, feet west

of east line of Race street (Pratt &

& Cady),   in.
Sargeant at Summer street, feet inches

south of the hvdrant (Pratt Cady), in.
Union at Fountain street, feet inches

west of the hydrant (Ludlow), in.

Total,  -in.;  -in.;  -in.;  

 -in.;  -in. Total, .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
TABLE F.
Summary of Hydrants Set in  .
 le
g  
BSE
Location (Corner or Side) and Make  c
Par  
i) oO Q
(ERE
eS
Canal street at Deane Steam Pump Co. (Holyoke),  
Main street, corner of Berkkshire street, east side
(Holyoke),  
Yale at Folsom street (Holyoke),  
Total, )
 D
E BE
Replaced Hydrants.  S
 
a 
Beacon avenue and Northampton street (Holyoke),  
(Replaces  -in. single Holvoke.)
Bowers at East Dwight street (Holyoke),  
(Replaces  -in. single Mathews.)
Elm at Dwight street (Holyoke),  
(Replaces  n. single Holyoke, Dwight and
Elm. .
Highland terrace at Hampshire terrace (Holvoke),|  
(Replaces  -in. single Mathews. )
*Hillside avenue at Cherry street (Holyoke),  
(Replaces  -in. double Holyoke.)
Union at Fountain street (Holyoke),  
(Replaces  -in. single Holyoke)
Total  al  
*Steamer Connection. .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD. )
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
 -inch, one out, .  -inch, two outs, .  -inch, two outs, .  -inch, three outs, .  -inch, one out, . dd
 -inch, three cuts, ——.  
Cistern, .  
Total,  wee  
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CITY
OUTSIDE CITY HYDRANTS, TO DATE.
  stand pipe outs.
Ol single hydrants.
  deuble hydrants.
  triple hydrants.
  four-arm hydrants, cellar hydrant.
  mils using perforated pipe sprinklers.
 mills using autonratie sprinklers.
ol fire pumps at mills.
  tank containing gallons.
  tank eontainine gallons.
  tanks eontammineg gallons each.
  tank eentaiming gallons.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
METERS IN USE.
lz 
LIelele/ei  Sle
MAKE ie  jo  aH Sah S

LISA lol
Crown,   
Empire,  
Gem, 
Hersey,   
Keystone,  
King, 
Lambert, 
Thomson,  
Trident,  Ly d
Trident Compound,  
Union, 
Worthington,   
Total, BY  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
TABLE J.
Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Rated.
Art Studio. .  
Automobiles. .  
Automobile Stations  
Automatic dampers  
Awning manufactories..  
Bakeries . dil
Barber shops . oT
Band room .  
Banks .  
Baths .™  
Baths, extra. .  
Beer pumps. .  
Beer bottlers. wo  
Blacksmith and carriage shops.  
Boarding houses.  
Boiler shop. .  
Boilers. .  
Bonded warehouse .  
Box Shop .  
Bowling alleys .  
Brass Foundry .  
Broom manufactories  
Brick yard .  
Business college .  
Cattle .  
Cement block works .  
Cement pipe works ,  
Cemeteries ,  
Churches .—  WV
Church organs. oo,  
Cigar manufactories to  
Club houses ,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Club rooms. .  
Coal elevator .  
Coal and wood yards.  
Compressed air pumps  
Convents ,  
Creameries .  
Dentists ,  
Dressmakers. ,  
Drug stores. oo,  
Dye works.”  
Electric car sprinkler.  
Electric car hydrants. dll
Elevators, piston. 
Engines ,  
Express company ,  
Families .  
Fountain and rotary sprinkler. 
Furniture ware rooms.  
Gas holder. , ,
Gate house, H. W. P. Co.  
Glazed paper works  
Green houses , |
Grist mills ,  
Gymnasiums. ,  
Hair dressers ,  
Halls ,  
Harness works  
Hatters. ,  
Horses . :
Hose ,  
Hotels. ,  
Hydraulic press.  
. Ice dealers .  .
Iron Works. oo, I
Laundries ,  
Lithographers Lk I

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Livery stables .  
Locomotives. .  
Lodging rooms .  
Log cabin .  
Lumber yards .  
Machine shop ,  
Meat markets .  
Millinery parlors.  
Motors. .  
Offices .  
Parks ,  
Passenger and freight depots  
Photo studio. .  
Planing mills ,  
Plating works .  
Playerounds —. ,  
Plumbers .  
. Pool rooms ,  d
Printing Offices .  
Public bath rooms ,  
Publie drinking fountains  
Publhe reading rooms  
Publie sanitaries —.  
Restaurants —. .  
Road rollers —. .  
Round houses .  
Rotary washers .  
Sausage manufactory  
School houses. ,  
Shops ,  
Slauchter house.  
Soda hottles —. ,  
Soda fountains . of
Skating rink.  
Stand pipes —. . OO
Steam and eas fitters. .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Steam stone polishing. ae  
. Stone crusher ,  
Stone yards. .  
Stores .  d
Storehouses.. .  
Street sprinkling carts.  
Tailor shops. .  
Tanks for glasses.  
Telephone exchange Lo,  
Theatres. .  
Tin shops ,  
Tumbler washers.  
Undertakers . il
Urinals. ,  
Vegetable sprinklers  
Veterinary hospital ,  
Wading pools ,  
Water closets ;  
Water closets, extra  
Water Power Co.  
Watering troughs . dll
Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Metered.
Almshouse ,  
Alpaca Mills. too  
Auger Bit Works ,  
Automatic dampers .  
Automobiles.  
Automobile stations ,  
Barber shops ,  )
Bar works ,  
Baths ,  
Beer bottling. .  
Beer pumps. .  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
Belt shops . I
Blacksmith shop. I
Blanket mill ..  
Bleach and dye tanks.  
Book binding .  
Boilers. .  
Boiler shops. .  Brass foundry , .
Brass window furnishing  
Chemical laboratories.  
Churches . 
Church organs...  
City hall . .
Club rooms. .  
Colored cotton .  
Compressed air pumps D
Condensers .  
Convents .  
Cotton mills. . 
Cotton thread and twine manufactories  
Cotton warp ,  
Crabbing machines .  
Crimping machines .  :
Dandy rol] manufactory  
Dentists. .  
Domestic science.  
Drug stores. .  
Dye works .  
Electric car station . I
Electrie light station I
Electric power stations  
Electrotyping , I
Elevators, by piston   |
Elevators, by motor .  g
Engines .  
Envelope manufactory.  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  d
Express company .  
Families .  
Filters. . Af
Fire engine houses .  
Fountains .  
Gas works .  
Gas holders. ,  
Glazed paper works .  
Green house .  
Grindstones. .  
Gymnasiums .  
Halls . Al
Horses. ,  
Hose .  
Hospitals ,  
Hotels. ,  
Home for aged people  
Hot water boilers .  
Hydraulic press . of
Hygienic drinking fountains —
Iron foundries .  
Job printing , |
Laundries ,  
Livery stables ,  
Lodging rooms .  
Lumber yards ,  
Machine shops .  
Mattress works .  
Meat markets ,  
Motors. . of
Nursery ,  
Offices. .  
Opera houses .  
Paper machines . oT
Paper mills. .  
Paper pad manufactories  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD, ,
Passenver depot .  
Planing mills .  
Plumbers .  
Plush manufactory . ]
Police court. .  
Post. office .  
Pork packing houses  
Pool rooms —. .  
Print machines .  
Primers for pumps .  
Public bath houses .  
Public bath rooms.  
Pubhe library ,  
Pubhe sanitary . ]
Reading room .  
Restaurant .  
Rotary washers .  
Saloons .  
School houses ,  
Sereen plate works .  
Sealing wax manufactory ]
Shops .  
Silk mills .  )
Singeing machines.  
Size tubs . dil
Soap tank ,  
Soda Botthng .  
Soda fountains .  
Spraying machines dd
Spring bed manufactory  
Steam and gas fitters  
Steaming machines . dd
Steam pump manufactory —.  
Steam stone cutting  
Stone vard —. .  
Stores oo.  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD. TT
Tanks for glasses.  
Tailor shops ,  
Testing flume ,  
Telegraph offices.  
Tissue paper manufactory.  
Tumbler washers.  
Urinals. .  
Water closets ,  
Water wheel governors  
Water rolls for wire oe  
Wire muls ,  
Wire weaving wk  
Woolen mills .  
Y.M.C. A... .  
Y.W.C. AL. ,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD. |
TABLE OF RAINFALL AT THE SEVERAL
. RESERVOIRS FOR  .

OO High Whiting

Ashley Fom

Month Ponds Reservoir ‘Sai Reet

inches inches inches inches
January,  
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
December,  
| Total,  

) |

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
TABLE SHOWING OVERFLOW AT ASHLEY PONDS
AND WHITING STREET RESERVOIRS .
, DURING THE YEAR  .
ASHLEY PONDS WHITING STREET
Month  woe Ee
£  SSS Efe, Fes
 */| 
January,  
February,  
March, 
April,  
May,  
June, 
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November, 
December,  
Total,  
Total from both reservoirs, gallons.
Total run off from Fomer water shed for year,
  gallons.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD. 
HEIGHT OF WATER AT THE WHITING STREET
RESERVOIR.

December  feet inch;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches.

January  feet inches;  feet;  feet inches;
 feet inches;  feet inches.

February  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet
  inches  feet.

March  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches.

April  feet inches;  feet;  feet inches;  ,
  feet inches;  feet inches.

May  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches.

June  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches.

July  feet inches:  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches;  feet inches.

August feet inches;  feet inches:  feet  
inches;  feet inches.

September  feet:  feet inches:  feet inches;
  feet inches.

October  feet inches:  feet inches:  feet  
inch;  feet inches;  feet inches.

November  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet
  inches;  feet inches.
Average height for year, feet inches.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY PONDS,
 .
December  feet inch;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches.
January  feet inches;  feet;  feet inches;  ,
  feet inches;  feet.
February  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet
  inches:  feet inches.
March  d, feet inches;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches.
April  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches;  feet inches.
May  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet  
inches;  feet inches.
June  feet inches;  feet inches;  fect  
inches  feet inch.
July  feet inches;  feet inches:  feet  
inches;  feet mcehes;  feet inches.
August  feet inches;  feet inches:  feet
  inches;  feet inches.
September  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet
 inches;  feet inches.
October  feet inches;  feet inches;  feet  
inches  feet inches;  feet inches.
November  feet inches;  feet inches:  feet  
inches:  feet.
Average height. for vear, feet inches.
Height of overflow, feet inches,

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
- STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE
WATER WORKS, NOVEMBER .

Population by Federal census of .

Date of construction,  .

Works owned by the city.

Source of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage reservoir, three and one-half miles from the city,
two mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the
southwest branch of the Manhan river—intake reservoir
at Southampton.

Mode of supply—gravity. |

| |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
FINANCIAL.
RECEIPTS.

A. Water rates, fixed . 
B. Water rates, metered  
C. Total receipts from water 
D. Service pipe.  
E. All other sources.  
F. Gross receipts , 
G. Cash balance, December 
$ 

: EXPENDITURES.

‘AA, Management and repairs 
BB. Services and repairs  
CC. Running expenses for 
DD. Interest on bonds  
EE. Total maintenance  
FF. City of Holyoke, taxes.  
GG. Transfer to Sinking Funds  
HH. Materials, labor, ete.  
II. Cash on hand and in banks  
JJ. Balance to construction  

$ 

Re REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
CONSTRUCTION.
Balance . 
KK. Extension main pipe 
LL MHydrants |
MM. Reservoirs . 
NN. Meters.  
OO. Land purchases  
——————— 
PP. Depreciation, two per cent 
QQ. Net cost of works to date  
RR. Bonded debt.  
W.  Value of sinking funds, November
  . 
CONSUMPTION.
 Population,  Federal census Population on line of pipe, Water Department census.  Population supphed, Water Department
census. toe   Total gallons consumed for vear.  
d. Passed throuch meters A
 Passed through meters .
 Averave daily consumption, gallons —. Gallons per day to each inhabitant  (Callons per day to each consumer  Gallons per day to service tap.  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and cast iron
and lead lined.
 From one-half -( inch to thirty )
inches.
 Extended, feet large.
 Discontinued   feet
. Mains,  -inch and upwards miles
 Temporary mains, less than inches. miles
 Total length of distribution. miles
 Number of leaks in city,  in Fomer line,
   Cost of repairs per mile  Hydrants added.  Hydrants now in use (public) and  
private hydrants (see Table G).
 Hydrants frozen.  Hydrants repaired  Hvydrants replaced  Stop gates added. Stop gates now in use (see foot of Table E)  Stop gates less than  -inch.  Number of blow-off gates  Range of pressure on main at office, per day ;
and night, to pounds.
Main street, per day and might. to
  pounds.
 Stand pipes in use a)
 Gates repaired D
 Gates replaced rs)
 Gates taken out  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
SERVICE.
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, cast iron,
: lead lined, tin lined and galvanized. |
 From one-half to  -inch size of service. |
 Leaks .  Cleaned and repaired’.  Frozen services thawed out.  Replaced services.  Extended   feet
 Discontinued  Total now in use (estimated) feet
 Services added  Number now in use.  Average length of service feet
All sizes Average cost of service in up to  
inch size  Meters added  Meters discontinued  Meters repaired  Meters now in use.  Indicators on elevators and organs  Service boxes repaired  Water shut off  Water turned on  Leaks, faucets,  water closets,  Leaks repaired, faucets,  water closets,
   Valves sealed in mills.  Seals broken in mills  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO NOVEMBER .
Water Commissioners for Construction of the Work—
Elected by the Town of Holyoke.
William B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February .
John Delaney, elected March term expired
February .
John E. Chase, elected March term expired
 .
Dennis Higgins, elected March term expired
February .
Joel Russell, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .
J. P. Buckland, Clerk of the Board, elected Mareh  ,
 term expired February .
L. P. Bosworth, suecessor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February .
C. W. Ranlet, ex-officio. as Town Treasurer.
Engineers and Superintendents for Construction of Works.
Messrs. Shedd and Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting engineers.
E. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.
Davis Ellsworth, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis
May,  .
Moses Stevens, pipe inspector.
Water Commissioners Elected by the City Council.
J. P. Buckland, elected February term expired
February .
Dennis Higgins, elected February term expired
January .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD.
James G. Smith, elected February  deceased
July .
J. A. Sullivan, elected February term expired
January .
James F. Allyn, elected February term expired
January .
C. Il. Heywood, elected July term expired
January .
Timothy Merrick, elected January term expired January .
Maurice Lynch, elected January term expired
January .
James E. Delaney, elected January resignation
accepted January ,
Moses Newton, elected January term expired
January ,
James J. Curran, elected January resignation |
accepted February |
Martin P. Conway, elected January term ex; pired January |
) Charles D. Colson, elected January term expired February |
John J. Sullivan. elected January term expired February .
Thomas F. Greaney, elected January term expired February .
Joseph A. Skinner, elected January term expired February .
Maurice Lynch, elected January deceased Jan- |
uary .
Arthur M. French, elected February term expired February .
Hueh MeLean. elected January term expired
February .
Michael J. Dovle. elected January .
Thomas J. Carmody, elected January .
Jesse E. Sheldon, elected January .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD.  
Officers of the Holyoke Water Works.
Moses Stevens, Superintendent, appointed February  ,
 term expired April resigned.
Daniel Heywood, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October sueded by E. M. Bolton.
E. M. Bolton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned.
E. P. Clark, Registrar, appointed July resigned
January .
J. C. Sullivan, Registrar, appointed January ;
resigned January .
A. E. Pickup, Registrar, appointed February .
John D. Hardy, Superintendent, appointed May ,
term expired April .
John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent, appointed Mav  ,
 .
E. M. Bolton, Inspector, appointed July service
terminated March .
J. F. Cleary, Inspector, appointed Maren .
T. E. Sullivan, Inspector, appointed March ,
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, appointed Oetober .
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector, appointed October .
Daniel F. Cray. Inspector, appointed October .



ANNUAL REPORT
. OF THE
School Department
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER  ,
, Se D»
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CO.
HOLYOKE, MASS.
 .

|
Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  ;
Office, Chestnut Street. |
Ilon. NATITAN P. AVERY, Mayor.
TERENCE O’DONNELL,
} Chairman.
JOHN L. RILEY,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.
Term Expires January
At Lare TERENCE O’DONNELL,  
oe THOMAS S.CHILDS. ..  
Ward  —JOHN F. KENNEDY,  
Ward  —GEORGE W. MESSIER,  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH, —.  
Ward +—MAURICE G. DONATIUE,  
Ward  —DANIEL F. WATERS,  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCII, ,
Ward  —FREDERICK S. WEBBER, |

.
) |
e |
, Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
Office, Chestnut. Street.
Regular Meeting, First Monday in the Month.
(January, First Tuesday.)
Hon. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.
TERENCE O’DONNELBE,
Chairman. )
JOHN L. RILEY,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.
Term Expires January
( TERENCE O'DONNELL,  
At Large  oy
UTHOMAS  CHILDS, 
Ward I—JOHN F. KENNEDY,  
Ward  —GEORGE W. MESSIER,  
Ward  —AUGUST Hl. BAUSH, —.  
Ward  —MAURICE G. DONAIIUE,  
Ward  —JOHN J. O'CONNOR,  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH,  
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS,  

Standing Committees for  .
HicgH Scuoot—Messrs. Childs, Baush, O'Donnell.
First District—Messrs. Donahue, Childs, O’Connor.
SEcoND District—Messrs. Baush, Lyneh, Wells.
THirp District—Messrs. Kennedy, Messier, O’Donnell.
RuLEs—Messrs. O’Connor, Messier, Kennedy.
FINANCE AND ACCOUNTS Messrs. Donahue, Wells, O'’Don- ,
mell. |
SALARIES—Messrs. Childs, Baush, O’Connor. .
TExT Books AND COURSES OF SttuDy—Messrs. Lynch, |
Baush, O'Connor. |
PRINTING AND SUPPLIES—Messrs. Baush, Lyneh. Kennedy.
Music—Messrs. Lyneh, Childs, Wells.
DRAWING AND WriITING—Messrs. Wells, Donahue, Baush.
HEALTH AND Prysican CuLtTURE—Messrs. Kennedy,
(Childs, Messier.
EVENING SCHOOLS—Messrs. Messier. Donahue, Kennedy.
ATTENDANCE, CENSUS AND TRUANCY—Messrs. Donahue,
Messier, O’Connor.
| BuILDING—Messrs. Baush, Kennedy, O'Donnell.

Calendar
, SCHOOL YEAR,  :

Winter Term begins January .

Winter Term ends February .

Spring Term begins March .

Spring Term ends April .

Summer Term begins May .

Summer Term ends June .

Fall Term begins September .

Fall Term ends December .

Winter Term begins January .

VACATIONS.

February to March inclusive.

April to May inclusive.

July to September inclusive. |

December to January inclusive.

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, Fourth of July, Washineton’s Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day with the day following, Christmas Day, New

, Year's Day, Patriots’ Day, and Labor’s Holiday.

Regular Meetings of the School Committee—The first
Monday evening in each month at eight o'clock, except in
January, when the monthly meeting will be the first Tuesday.

Standing Committee Meetings—Upon notifieation.

REPORT OF
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
To Tis Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

While the annual report of the School Board presents no
extraordinary features it records the doings of year well
filled with routine work of high grade, together with few
events worthy of special mention.

It is genuine pleasure to note the completion and oeeupancy of the Ingleside School and to feel that the district is
well and satisfactorily cared for for some time to come. It is
an even evreater pleasure to record the removal of the old North
Chestnut. street landmark and its replacement by the William
Whiting Schoo]—a modern, carefully-planned building, which,
with its up-to-date equipment, baths and social center room,
should prove powerful factor for good—physieal, intelleetual
and moral—in district that is entitled to all the eity can
afford. Two unusual features of this building are worthy of
especial remark—-the shding partition which opens to convert
two class rooms into fair sized assembly hall. and the fu ength pivoted sun windows in the south rooms, designed to
provide especially helpful conditions for anaemic and under
developed children.

While the needs of these districts have been so bountifully
supphed it must not be forgotten that in Elmwood three first
vrades are on half-time because of lack of school rooms to give
them full-time sessions, and in the West Street Sehool it was
necessary to make two extra rooms by putting in temporary

board partitions in the assembly hall, which facts demonstrate
the need of rehef from the overcrowded conditions in these
distrmets in the immediate future,

/
| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

At the High School additional benches and lathes have
been installed in the manual training room to meet the demands made upon this increasingly popular department; and
further, in order to be of greater service to such children as
do not reach the ninth grade, it was recently voted to extend
manual training work and sewing to the seventh and eighth
grades. CTs

At the Evening High School distinct advance has also
been made along the same line by opening the manual training department to evening classes, and the recently opened
electrical engineering department has awakened much interest ,
as evidenced by an unusually large enrolment of pupils.

In the matter of physical health in the schools we are
pleased to note that growing and legitimate interest has
been aroused in out-of-door athletics, as shown by the summer
baseball and autumn football schedules. Also, by recent
vote of the Board very complete system of medical examination was adopted and referred to the Board of Health for practical demonstration. We look forward to the time when our
schools shall instruct the children in the care of the body no
less than in the training of the mind.

Financially the year has been success. Recognizing the
good-will of the Board of Estimates as shown by its generous
appropriation for the schools, we have made every effort to
live within the amount given us and so far sueded as to be
able to leave modest balance unexpended, without having
impaired the efficiency of the schools.

Further and more detailed information concerning the
year’s work may be had by consulting the reports and tables
following.

FREDERICK  S. WEBBER,
MAURICE G. DONAIIUVE,
AUGUST BAUSTI,

Committee on Annual Report.

REPORT OF THE
Superint t
uperintendent and Secretary
To the School Committee of Holyoke:
I herewith present my second annual report as Superintendent of Schools, it being the forty-seventh of the series.
Accompanying and supplementing this report are four
sets of statistical tables dealing with finances, school organization and other matters pertaining to the work of the department. The meagerness of the information given statistically
in past reports and the absence of definite plan consistently
followed for any period of years makes it difficult or inpossible to trace the development of certain phases of the work of
the schools. It has, therefore, seemed best to rearrange the
tables already printed in the annual report and to add to them
such other tables as will be of permanent value. These tables
deal thoroughly with expenditures, giving not only the usual
facts contained in reports of this kind, but showing as well the l
actual salaries that are being paid today to the teachers and
principals of day and evening schools. The tables on school
organization present quite fully the distribution of pupils by
aves and grades and give further interesting and valuable information regarding the school enrollment in recent vears.
The work of preparing these tables has been undertaken
partly through desire to furnish freely to the citizens of |
Holvoke all the facts and figures necessary to enable them to
form clear idea of the organization and eost of the sehool
system which they support.
I. FINANCES. |
The appropriation and receipts for the year amounted to !
$ The department spent leaving |
surplus of with outstanding orders against next

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
year’s appropriation amounting to about four hundred dollars.
The expenditures exded those of the preceding year by
$ Excluding the item of janitors’ salaries, which
were formerly paid by the school department, but are now
met by the Board of Public Works, and comparing this expenditure with that of former years, this increase is the
smallest since  .

Although every effort has been made to live within the
appropriation, the schools have not been allowed to suffer
through false ideas of economy. This is shown conclusively
by the fact that for the three most important items, teachers’
salaries, text books, and educational supplies, our expenditures
have exded those of the preceding year by The
salaries of sixteen High School teachers have been increased ;
one more man has been employed in the High School than
formerly; three new courses—wood-turning, pattern-making
and electricitv-—have been started in the Evening High School,
increasing the corps of teachers by five; the elementary evening schools with their sixty teachers have been run one-third
longer than ever before, entailing heavy additional expense.

In addition to the ordinary expenditures for replacing
old, worn-out text books with new of the same kind, we have
supplied the High School with copies and the elementary
schools with copies of recently adopted books.

Many needed and expensive repairs and improvements
have been made, including the planing and varnishing of
about desks, fitting up new commercial room and furnishing teachers’ room in the High School; installing about
  new window shades in the High, West Street and Elmwood Schools; buying five speed lathes and sixteen wood-working benches for the High School, and forty manual training
benches for the grammar schools. These repairs and equipment alone cost about We have endeavored to spend
money where improvements were most needed and to get full
value for money spent. The work of the Finance Committee
in scrutinizing accounts and of the Committee on Supplies in

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. co
placing orders and contracts, cannot be too highly commended.
Holyoke’s generous attitude toward the schools is deeply
appreciated by those who are directly responsible for supplying their needs.: —

II. ENROLLMENT AND ACCOMMODATIONS.

There has been no appreciable change in the total enrollment in the schools as compared with former years. For the
month of November,  the total enrollment was  and

, the average membership  This enrollment is somewhat
smaller and the membership slightly larger than for Noveimber,  There has been an increase in the West Street
and Elinwood Schools, but this has been offset in the total enrollment by decreases in several other sections. The West
Street School has sixteen rooms on the first and second floors
occupied and three on the third floor, two of the latter being
temporary rooms partitioned off in the assembly hall. The
following table shows the total membership of this school for
the month of November for the past five vears:

- Average Average
Noveniber.  Enrollment. Membership. Attendance.
    avd  

The average membership has increased steadily from  
to  the increase this vear being  In view of the large
increase In this school, and considering the fact that the building has heen overcrowded for two years, petitioning for new
biilding seemed the most reasonable course.

The steady Increase in the Elmwood section made it
hecessary to organize two additional classes at the beginning of
the present school year. As the rooms were already fully
oessipled the plan was adopted of using one of the rooms for

: REPORT OF SCHOOL COM MITTEE.  
two of the first grades and second room for the kindergarten
and another first grade, each class occupying room only for
half day. The plan, considered merely as temporary
arrangement, has worked satisfactorily. As the increase in
this distrit, however, is of steady and permanent character,
the erection of new building appears to be the only way of

, meeting present and future needs. ,

Following is table showing growth in the average
membership of this school during the past few vears of nearly
one hundred pupils—from to  .

' Average Average
November. Enrollment. Membership. Attendance.
  
 

The children of the North Chestnut Street School, now
attending only for half-day sessions at the Elin Street building, are finally about to be adequately provided for in the new
Wilham Whiting School, now nearing completion. The children who will occupy the new building number over and
are organized into ten classes, seven of whieh are third grade
and below. In spite of the inconveniences under which these
pupils have been working since the old building was vacated in
June, the school has not deereased in membership and the new
building will probably be fully oceupied by the beginning of
the next school vear.

All the rooms in the Elm Street. South Chestnut Street
and Appleton Street buildings are occupied except small
inadequately lighted room on the third floor of the South
Chestnut Street School. The halls in the Appleton Street and
South Chestnut Street buildings are also used as class rooms.
The classes are large at Appleton Street. averaging pupils

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
) to teacher, the average in each of the other two buildings
being about  These three schools had membership for
November of pupils, about the same as for November
of the preceding year.
III. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Below the High School, in the grades and kindergarten,
are to be found eighty-nine per cent of all our pupils. For
the month of November the average membership in the grades
was  and in the kindergarten  Compared with the
average membership for November of year ago, these figures
show slight decrease in the kindergarten and an increase in
the grades, the difference being comparatively small and unimportant in both cases.
During the year four small classes have been discontinued .
and five new classes organized, the aim being to more nearly .
equalize the work of the teachers by uniting very small |
classes and dividing the very large ones. This has resulted in
decreasing the number of classes having less than twenty-five
pupils and more than forty, and increasing the number of
classes between these two extremes.
For the month of November,  we had one more class
and forty-one more pupils in the grades than year ago—and
we employed five less teachers. The average number of pupils
per teacher, including principals, was  an increase from
  the year before. In last year’s report was submitted a
list of twenty-four New England cities in which the average
number of pupils per teacher ranged from to  —only
two cities having smaller averages than Holvoke at that time.
A comparison of the present average with the same list shows !
only three cities of the twenty-four having smaller number
of pupils per teacher today, so that the reorganization of
classes and the decrease in the number of teachers employed in
the grades still leaves us with elasses about as smal] as ean be
found anywhere in New Enveland.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

The economy practiced during the past year has enabled
us to buy forty wood-working benches for two of the grammar
schools, and to lay plans for the extension of manual training
and sewing to the three upper grammar grades. At present
the girls of grade nine have weekly lessons in sewing or cooking and the boys in manual training-—the boys all going to the
High School for the work and the girls taking cooking
at the High School and sewing in their own buildings. The
plan recently discussed and approved by your Committee
cantemplates equipping rooms for manual training in the
basements of the five grammar school buildings and giving the
boys of grades seven, eight and nine lessons in this line of
work, the girls of the same grades to have sewing or cooking
during the same periods. This plan would necessitate the
hiring of one or two special teachers and the expenditure of
about  more for equipment—but it would greatly benefit
the pupils now in these three upper grades.

An examination of the courses of study in other cities
reveals the fact that these practical courses have been widely
introduced into the elementary schools in recent years, and
that Holyoke offers comparatively little to her children in
these lines. The following lists show the extent to which
cooking, sewing and manual training are being taught in the
principal cities in this section.

COOKING.

In one grade—Holyoke, Lynn, New Haven, Fitchburg,
Waltham, Hartford. .

In two grades—Worcester, New Bedford, Springfield,
Haverhill.

SEWING.

In one grade—Ilolyoke.

In two grades—Worcester, Haverhill, Gloucester.

In three grades—New Haven, Cambridge, Lowell, Springfield, Fitehburg, Taunton, North Adams, Chelsea.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. .

In four grades—Fall River, New Bedford, Somerville,
Everett, Quiney, Waltham, Hartford. .

In five grades—Brockton.

, MANUAL TRAINING.

In one grade—Holvoke, Lynn, New Haven, Malden,
Quincy, Pittsfield.

In two grades—Salem, Fitehburg, Taunton, Waltham,
Gloucester. 

In three grades—Cambridge, New Bedford, Brockton.

In four grades—Worcester, Springfield, Somerville.
Everett. 
In five grades—Haverhill.

Manual training seems to be taught in the three or four
upper grades and domestic seience in the middle grades,
commencing with sewing in grade five and followed with
eooking in the highest grades. This work is now well established in most of our cities. It has passed beyond the experimental stage and has become permanent feature of elementary school work.

The forty benches already purchased are at the Morgan
and West Street Schools ready to be set up. By careful management of the finances of the department not only these two '
schools but the Highland and Elinwood Sehools ean be fully |
equipped for this work before the close of the present school
year.

A matter of vital unportance to the welfare of the city
is that its people be brought together in perfect understanding
and unity of purpose through the medium of eommon
Janguage. However important it may appear to be that the |
children learn the language of their parents, it is nevertheless
of infinitely greater Importance to themselves and to the city
that the children be not denied the privilege of beeoming .
thoroughly proficient in the use of English. Without this
training they grow up handicapped in business and unable  
to eo-operate understandingely with their fellow eitizens in ;

) REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
the social, business and civic affairs of the community. The
young children living and attending school today in Holyoke
are to earn their living as Americans, and the better able
they become to read, write and speak English the better will
be their chances for success in life. They are to participate as
Americans in-the government of the town or city of which they
may happen to become residents, exercising the right of citizenship to the benefit or injury of their fellows. Many of them

-—most of them—may live their lives in Holyoke and the
future of the city will be in their keeping. It thus becomes a
matter of deep and serious concern to every citizen who  s
working for the future welfare of [Iolyoke that all the children
of the city receive as early as possible in the elementary grades

a knowledge of the people with whom their lives are to be
spent, training in the American ideals of personal liberty
and government, and as thorough knowledge of English as” 
the few years in school will permit.

Unifying her population is today Holyoke’s greatest need
and her most difficult problem. The public school  wnquestionably the most potent agency in the solution of this problem—and the more effective and widespread its work in inparting knowledge of English the more will it eontribute to
intelligent, citizenship and to the attainment of civie ideals.

With this need of Holyoke in mind, an effort has been
made during the past vear to make the teaching of English to
beginners in grade one more effective. The most important
and difficult teaching in the elementary schools is done in the
lowest grades. Here the child is quite helpless,—dependent for
all progress upon the teacher's direct gnidance. Tere strange
symbols—words, letters and figures—signs that mean nothing
in themselves, are impressed upon him until he recognizes them
in their related meanings and learns to pronounce them in
English sph. In several buildines many of the children

who enter grade one have no knowledge of English. Here the

teacher must have not only teaching skill. but knowledge of
method and well defined plan.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. ,
Realizing the importance of laying good foundation in
these grades and the difficulties presented in the lack of knowledge of English among so many of the beginners, considerable
time has been spent during the past year in examining the
methods of teaching employed in the various first grades of
the city and in testing the children in reading. Following a
careful and thorough examination meetings of teachers of
these grades were called last May to discuss the matter. The
result was the adoption of revised list of books for primary :
reading. The adoption of this list made available for such
teachers as chose to use them the books and material of the
Aldine system of reading. This method of teaching reading to |
beginners was already well known to many of our teachers, as
it was in use in several nearby cities and towns, and had been .
 thoroughly tried out in four of our own schools for nearly i
year. Its use today in nearly all the schools of the city unifies
 the work of this grade and makes more rapid the acquisition
of English. Revised reading lists for the grades above the
first are being prepared.
In October, just passed, after meeting with principals,
a new arrangement for use of arithmetic text books was
adopted, certain books being assigned definitely to certain
grades. The change was made near the close of November,
new books now being in use in all grades below the ninth. ,
With the course of study in arithmetic being revised, the work
m this branch will soon be more definite and better systematized.
A new course of study in drawing has been prepared for
all grades below the High School, and, although not yet in
‘print, it is being tried in the schools. It aims to develop the
constructive powers of children by having them draw and
make many simple things commencing with the primary
, grades. It aims also to train the artistic appreciation by a
study of form, color, and works of art.
Drawing as taught today in the schools is quite different
from the drawing of few vears ago. It is broader in aim

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
and of more practical application. Today children study color,
not that they may become artists, but that they may have a
higher appreciation of color and be able to produce more
beautiful and harmonious effects in the selection of carpets,
rugs, draperies, wall paper and other articles which go toward
the making of the home. To see and feel beauty in nature, to
have proper sense of form and proportion, to know colors
in their related harmonies, to become familiar with and to
appreciate the masterpieces of art in sculpture and painting—
and then to learn to apply all this knowledge and appreciation
to making the home attractive and beautiful and the life a
harmony of ideals and actions; this is the underlying purpose
in the work in art or drawing today.

IV. THE HIGII SCHOOL.

No part of the public school system is today being so
rapidly broadened and democratized as the high school. A
generation ago its chief aim was to prepare for college; now
we are beginning to realize that this is only small part of its
mission. The boy who was to enter the ministry or to take up
law found that what the high school offered him was practical
in that it fitted him directly for his vocation; but the boy who
was to enter the mercantile or industrial field, or who was to
become an agriculturist, found little in his high school studies
which he could make practical use of in after life. The number and character of the studies offered were determined
largely by the needs of the few who were to enter higher in, stitutions of learning, while the large majority—the ninety
per cent—were not considered as having any special needs or
ambitions to which the high school could minister. In its aims
it was the most undemocratic part of our public school system.
The theory was long advocated by able educators that preparation for college was the best preparation for life, and this
theory, so ably advocated and so strongly believed. became the
basic principle upon which the high school courses were
shaped. The idea that culture was the aim of the high school

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

was not in itself wrong; the error consisted in considering it

the sole aim and in thinking that it could be developed only

through the study of certain subjects; very limited in number—which bore only remotely upon practical living.

Today the high school pupil studies the so-called cultural
subjects; he is brought under the refining and elevating influences of the world’s great literary masterpieces and is
humanized and broadened by an open-minded study of man’s
struggles from early times to the present age of world-wide
sympathy and peace. But the present-day high school does
more for him than this. While enriching him on the cultural
side, it offers him an opportunity to study the fundamentals
of commerce or industry, thus arousing his interest in and
directing his ambition toward his future life as member of
a producing community. The old type high school educated
away from labor and the industries and developed in many of
its pupils contempt for the commonplace activities centering
in the home and shop. The modern high school places these
activities on level with Latin and Greek as subjects worthy
of intensive and concentrated study. Cooking, sewing, farmnIng, working in wood and iron, have been means of man’s
development and happiness since early times—disciplining,
training and refining his moral and intellectual nature ;—
and they are as closely and vitally related to man’s happiness |
today as they have been throughout the ages.

Preparation for college is one of the important functions
of the modern high school, but it  only one. All the other
courses as well, even the strictly vocational, contribute to the
intelligence and culture of the community, and an estimate
of high school must be based not upon narrow view of its
work, but upon the total character result of its varied courses
and activities. The culture whieh education gives should find
expression later in living;—in the care of the body, in the
building, furnishing and decoration of the home, in the wise
selection of voeation, in tolerant and sympathetic attitude
toward others, in self-control, in upright hving, in high moral |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
purpose, and in generous and unselfish service to one’s fellowmen. This is the new practical culture which the modern
high schools are aiming to inculeate through four years of
training in how to live.

This is the meaning of the great changes that have been .
taking place in high school courses in recent years; this is why
commercial departments have been established; this is why
agriculture has become recognized branch, especially in
country high schools; this is why forging, machine shop work,
wood-turning and pattern-making are being practiced; this is
why dressmaking, millinery and cooking are being as seriously
and earnestly studied as Greek or algebra; this is why high
school physies concerns itself with the city’s water supply and
with the systems of ventilation and plumbing in the homes of
pupils; this is why high school chemistry has become in girls’
schools the chemistry of foods and why high school drawing
has become the drawing of house plans and the application of
the principles of art to the selection of house furnishings and
the decoration of the home. This is the new spirit and purpose of the high school, and to this end old studies are being
given-a more practical application than formerly and vital
human activities are being added as subjects for study.

The Holyoke High School has its well-equipped and welleonducted commercial department. It has sewing and cooking
for its girls in rooms fitted for such work. It has made commendable though sinall beginning in technical work for boys
by establishing courses in wood-turning and pattern-making.
This side of the work of the High School should be considered
only as in the process of development and not as in any way |
completely provided for, and one of the most important and
difficult responsibilities of your Committee during the next
half dozen years will be in connection with the careful planning and economical extension and development of this technical and vocational education.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
V. EVENING SCHOOLS.

The importance ‘of the evening schools to Holyoke is
scarcely realized until one considers the number of young
children who leave school at fourteen to go to work. For the
year—from September Ist,  to September Ist,  —
the truant officers issued work certificates to children
between the ages of fourteen and sixteen. Of these, or  
per cent were under fifteen years of age, there being boys
and girls; while of these were under fourteen years
and six months. Every year approximately children under fourteen and one-half vears of age leave the schools of
the city to begin life’s work. Many of them are among the
brightest minds and most beautiful child characters in the

‘ schools and have keen regrets at leaving. Many of them
desire to continue their education and they enter the elementary evening schools each vear to the number of three or
four hundred. The eity furnishes hich salaried and wellprepared teachers for the children of the saine age who attend
the day schools; what does the city owe these less fortunate
virls and bovs whom stern necessity deprives of the advantages of the day schools? They are already handicapped educationally, the evening schools offering them the only opportunity. Should they not have the best teachers we can give
them, and ought we not try to give these children as good
advantages in the evening sehools as the more fortunate
children have in the day sehools? In this way these evening
schools will become real continuation schools and our young
working people will be eneouraged to pursue their studies into
the Evening High School itself.

The average attendance at the elementary evening schools
for November,  was  gain of about over last
vear; this in spite of the facet that the North Chestnut Street
Evening School showed decrease this vear of about pupils
owing probably to its being located temporarily in the Elin }
Street building. During the past vear these schools were in :
session nights, more than in previous vears; the large :

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
attendance maintained to the close being sufficient evidence
of the demand for the longer season.

The Evening High School is having an attendance of
nearly pupils night more than last year. This is due in
part to the three new courses that have been offered. For the
first time in the history of the school the manual training department has been opened to evening classes; wood-turning
and pattern-making being taught with two teachers in charge.
About sixty pupils have been taking this work. course in
elementary electricity has been started, employing two teachers and having over seventy pupils. Equipping the room
with benches, booths and electrical material for this work has
thus far cost comparatively small amount when
we consider the number benefited. During the past year the
bookkeeping department, in which there are four teachers,
has been put in charge of one man and an effort is being made
to systematize the work. No reasonable expense or trouble
should be spared in offering through this Evening High
School as rich an opportunity to the working young men and
women of the city as that now being offered to others through
the day High School. ;

VI. HEALTH OF CHILDREN

In the successive steps taken by your Committee during
the last eighteen months for the physical welfare of the children, chapter of real progress has been written into the reeords of the School Department, even though the value of the
work will not be fully understood or appreciated for several
years.

Let me present these steps briefly in review.

 CLosinc oF OtTsipE RooMs.—For many vears Holyoke has pursued the pohey of housing some of the children
in stores and other outside rooms who could not be aeeommodated in regular school rooms. These outside rooms were in
most cases utterly unsuited for this purpose. especially from
the standpoint of light, air space, and ventilating equipment.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
This use of outside rooms was considered necessary because of
the overcrowding in some schools, and the rooms themselves
| were without doubt well cared for and the best that could be
found. However, the fact remains, that the arrangement endangered children’s health. In September,  the last of
these outside rooms was closed, and although over-crowding
exists today in some sections, relief is found without physical
danger to the children. Our present plan of using only school
buildings for the housing of children, and of providing suitable additional accommodations by the erection of new build- |
ings is the only humane policy. It is to be hoped that the
city will never again revert to the old policy but will in all
eases consider health first. !
 RAZING OF THE OLD NORTH CHESTNUT STREET SCHOOL |
—aAn old eight-room strueture, located in the heart of the
city, badly overcrowded, poorly ventilated. depressing from
every view point, has been at last removed and in its place,
nearing completion, is new twelve-room building which ineludes in its plan more special health features than is true of —
any other building in the city. large well ventilated playroom, feet by feet, in the basement; two bath rooms,  
feet by feet, each well equipped with shower baths; two )
‘sun rooms’’ in the south side of the building fitted not only
with the usual number of windows but with five large windows
swinging on vertical pivots to make the entire window area
available for the admission of air;—these are all new and |
enlightened means for health preservation.
 OuTpoor ReEcEssES—A regulation has heen adopted
requiring principals and teachers to provide for an outdoor
recess for all their pupils every day when the weather permits. |
  CHANGE oF ScHooL TERMs.—The vitality of children |
and teachers decreases rapidly during the winter months, a
season Which compels them to spend large share of the time
indoors. If the school terms in winter and spring are too long
this vitality becomes exhausted and failure in work or illness
results. The new plan of having week's vacation at the end
|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

of every period of eight weeks of school after Christmas will

give opportunity for recuperation before the point of exhaustion is reached. It is preventive measure, which will
probably demonstrate its value in the first year.

do. MEDICAL INSPECTION REvisED.—A plan for systematizing and extending medical inspection in our schools was
discussed and approved by the Board of Health and the School
Committee at joint meeting of the two boards held September and was formally adopted by the School
Committee at the regular meeting week later. The plan
provides for rapid examination of every child in the public
schools before the end of the second week of school each year; .
for the testing of every child for evidences of defective sight
or hearing before the end of September; for thorough and
separate examination of every child before January first each .
school year; for the limited use of printed prescriptions without expense to children; and for an examination of buildings
by school physicians and report of the same to the school
authorities.

 SHOWER Batus—Recommendations for the establishing of shower baths in the West Street and Morgan Schools
have been adopted, and plans are now being considered.

 ScuHoon NurseE—The Board of Health and the
School Committee have agreed as to the desirability of employing nurse whose whole time will be spent in examining
ehildren, visiting and advising with parents, and instructing
children and teachers in the laws of health. It is hoped that
the nurse may begin her work sometime during the present
school year.

 GRAMMAR SCHOOL ATHLETICS—Throuvh the kind cooperation of the physical directors of the Young Men’s Christian Association plan of outdoor athletics for the boys of
the five large grammar schools has been arranged and earried
out during the past year. Baseball and sor football leagues
were organized and field day events held, the playgrounds of
the city being used, the Commission on Playgrounds and the

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Supervisor of Playground work heartily co-operating. Of

course this forrh of athletics reaches only small number of

children and can be considered only very small part of the
constructive work in physical training which city ought to !
do for the children in the elementary schools, but it is commendable as beginning.

In line with these efforts is the action of the Anti-Tuber- ,
culosis Association in furnishing to the schools rubber stamps |
for stamping on the covers of the children’s text books the
following rules for the prevention of tuberculosis:

TO PREVENT TUBERCULOSIS.

 Get plenty of fresh air.

 Get plenty of sunshine.

 Sleep with windows wide open, summer and winter.

 Do not spit in public places.

Do. Do not swap apples, gum, pencils, or anything you
put in your mouth.

 Do not chew pencils or penholders.

 Do not use handkerchiefs or napkins used by others.

 Do not wet your fingers to turn the leaves in books.

 Always wash your hands before eating.

 Do not use publie drinking cups.

It is no exaggeration to say that with these plans fully
developed and in operation few cities will be caring more intelligently or effectively for the physical welfare of the children; and it is cause for general congratulation that Holyoke
takes such an enlightened view of matters pertaining to health
and that there are in the city so many agencies working toward
these same high ends.

VII. THE PRESENT AND THE FUTURE.

The work of the year has been interesting and in the highest degree encouraging. Certain basal needs have revealed
themselves in the schools, and while the numberless minor
demands have not been neglected, time and money have been

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
found for at least beginning or extending these larger and
more important features. Money has been spent carefully,
wisely and honestly. High School and grade positions have
been filled with the best teachers. The meetings of your
School Committee have been- enjovable and. harmonious. |
There has been the heartiest and closest co-operation with
other departments of the City Government; especially has
this been true of the Board of Public Works and the Board
of Health, who share in responsibility for the schools. The
work of the year justifies the continuance of present policies
and gives promise for the future. These policies are:

 Economy in expenditure; not in the sense of spending little, but of spending wisely and getting full value.

 Safeguarding and building up the health of Holyoke
through the schools.

 Selecting the best teachers we can find for all vacancies.

 Perfecting present courses of study and broadening
the work so as to develop industrial efficiency.

-  gradual development of better supervision.

The highest school ideals are the most practical. The
chief hope for the development and improvement of any people or any age is through education. Twenty years from now
this city will be what its public schools shall have made it;
its ideals then will be the result of our ideals and sacrifices
today. The future IIolyoke is in our hands for the shaping.
Let us give our best in service; let us carefully preserve the
young lives in our keeping and give each the best chance possible to develop his physical, mental and moral powers; let us
strive to make tomorrow happier and more intelligent than today; and our reward will be freedom from regrets and the
knowledge that our lives have counted in the cause of civilization and righteousness.

Respectfully submitted,
JOIIN L. RILEY.

REPORT OF THE
; }
P rincipal of the High School.
Mr. John L. Riley, Superintendent of Schools.
Dear Sir: My fifth annual report as principal of the
Holyoke High School will give more in detail all the work
being done in the various departments of the school. The
general conditions differ little from those of last year. The
regular reports sent to the school office show that there has
been considerable decrease in the amount of tardiness and
an increase in the per cent of attendance.
| The graduating class in June numbered  class that
eompared favorably, both in point of numbers and amount of
work accomplished, with any high school of similar size in
this state. Out of this number, good proportion entered
colleges, technical schools, professional schools, and normal
schools. Reference elsewhere to statistical report submitted
to the School Department will show that forty-three pursued a
eollege course, sixteen the technical course, twenty-nine the
commercial and thirty-two the general course. In the college
and genera] courses are included some of the girls who entered
normal schools. :
The honor list, consisting of the nine students having the
highest average for four years, was as follows: Percival F.
Bliss, Mary G. Browne, Elner E. Cornwell, Harriet B. Fuller,
Mildred S. Rae, Raymond T. Tucker, Richard M. Weiser,
Mary L. Welsh, and George D. Whitmore. hi
The Alumni Association has placed at the disposal of the. \
school an annual scholarship prize to be awarded at the Com- i
menecement Exercises to the pupil doing the best work in some ‘i
one department. The Mathematical Department was selected i,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
in  and the scholarship prize was awarded to Richard M.
Weiser. In the prize will be given in the Science Department.

Changes in the faculty during the year were caused by .
the resignation of Miss Elizabeth Hurst from the Commercial
Department; Miss Kathryn Carrigan from the Classical Department; Mr. John Curran from the History Department ;
and the appointment of an additional teacher in the Manual
Training Department. These positions were filled respectively
by Mr. Charles W. Annable, graduate of Harvard University, and teacher of some experience in high school work;
Miss Bertha M. Morgan, who came from the Elmira, N. Y.,
high school; Mr. Jason C. Cook, graduate of Brown University, and an experienced teacher; and Mr. Clifford H. Webber,
who taught in Northampton and Deerfield, and who had
studied three years at Worcester Polytechnic Institute.

One of the special features of the year was the manner
in which Memorial Day was observed. The Grand Army of
the Republic, in uniform, attended the exercises, which were
held in the High School auditorium on the  th dav of May.
Captain S. C. Andrews, New York City, veteran of the
Spanish-American War, gave most appropriate and interesting talk. It  planned to use every vear some of the money
obtained from the High School leeture course in seeuring a
speaker of note to appear before the scholars and patrons of
the school every vear, on the day prior to Memorial Day.

I desire to take up now more in detail the work covered
in the different departments of the school.

ENGLISH DEPARTMENT.

The purpose of the work in English is to cultivate good
reading habits and to persuade the pupils that ‘‘English is a
tool,’’ which it is worth while to learn to use skilfully; in
other words, we try to adapt our work, both in speaking and
writing, to the needs of the pupils as they are, and not to fit
the pupil into some ideal scheme of teaching English. In

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
the first year, the following books are read carefully, in the
order named: Hawthorne’s Tales of New England; Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar; Irving’s Alhambra; Hawthorne’s The
House of the Seven Gables; Cooper’s The Last of the Mohieans; Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal. .
The themes written in the first year are mainly on subjects taken from the pupil’s own experience. In addition to
this work there is review of the fundamental principles of
English grammar. Much emphasis is laid upon spelling and }
punctuation.
In the second year large amount of theme work is taken
from the life which the pupil knows. Among the books read |
are Seott’s Ivanhoe; Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice and
As You Like It; Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield and The Deserted Village; Irving’s Life of Goldsmith; George Eliot’s |
Silas Marner. !
More advanced grammar work and study of elementary
rhetoric is included in this year’s work.
In the third year, more emphasis  laid upon composition
and simple argumentation in the form of debates, and upon the |
writing of essays taken from the pupil’s personal interest.
Books which appeal more to the imagination and sentiment are
included in the third year. These books are Selections from |
Browning’s Poems; Dickens’s Tale of Two Cities; Shakespeare’s Ifenry V; The De Coverley Papers; Irving’s Sketch
Book; Tennyson’s Idylls of the King; Coleridge’s Ancient
Mariner; Pope’s Translation of the Thad.
In the fourth vear the Civie Spirit is appealed to in the
study of such books as Washington’s Farewell Address Webster’s Bunker Hill Oration, and Burke’s Conciliation with the |
American Colonies. Literature as literature now appeals to
the pupils and good deal of reading is done, both in poetry
and prose. The books studied are Milton’s Lyries; Shakespeare’s Macbeth; Carlyle’s Essay on Burns; Selections from
Burn’'s Poetry; Macaulay’s Essays on Johnson.
|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
The written work is made largely practical, some of the
following subjects being used for themes: The Use of Our
Playgrounds in Winter; The Paper Trade of Holyoke; The
Shirtwaist Strike in New York, and many other topics equally
suggestive and helpful.

The most marked improvement in the year’s work might
be mentioned as the training of the students to speak in class
from three to five minutes on assigned subjects. Some pupils
do exdingly well, and the result is apparent in the use of
better English and greater ease in speaking.

CLASSICAL DEPARTMENT.

In the Classical Department the work is largely adjusted
to the demands of the college entrance requirements, and
cannot be made as elastic as that of some of the other departments. The first year’s work consists in careful study in the
elements of Latin, preparing the student to take up the work 
of the following years. Hale’s Latin Book, which is now the
regular adopted first-year book, is used in all of the sections
of beginning Latin.

In the second year, four books of Caesar are read, and in
the third year, six orations of Cicero; in the fourth year the
first six books of the Aeneid of Virgil.

In the first year Latin, the student is supposed to master
a vocabulary of about common Latin words, and to know
the force of the most common prefixes, suffixes and roots.
Special attention is given here to the correct habits of translation. It is not the aim of the Classical Department only, but
of all the language departments that the translations shall be
In exact and idiomatic English.

Frequent practice is given throughout the second, third
and fourth year, of sight translation, and in these classes there
is work in prose composition, both oral and written. Supplementary Latin books are used to increase the interest and
widen the range of the student’s knowledge of good Latin.

 Grammar work, of course, has an important place in the study

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
of the languages. Note books are kept for reference by each
pupil.
Three years of Greek are given, much along the lines of
the work in Latin. While in many high schools Greek is no
longer taught, the classes in the Holyoke High School remain
about the same size as they have been in years past. No course
| in the school, if faithfully taken, should be more productive of
good mental discipline than the classical course; but with the
latitude allowed by many of the colleges for entrance, it is not
surprising that few students take but one classical language.
: MATHEMATICS DEPARTMENT. :
The work in Mathematics covers all of the regular college ,
entrance requirenients as well as the advanced requirements
to the freshman class of the technical schools and colleges.
Beginning in September,  algebra was not required of
students taking the commercial course, four hours of commercial arithmetic being substituted for the algebra; all other |
students of the first vear are required to take elementary |
aleebra, the work going as far as Simultaneous Quadratic |
, Equations. In the fourth year, algebra is reviewed, twenty
weeks of four hours per week being devoted to this subject.
The work of the first year is covered, and in addition Progressions and the Binomial Theory. Also in this year advanced
or college algebra is offered for students preparing for technical schools.
The work in Geometry consists of one year of Plane
Geometry in the second school year, followed by college preparatory students principally; in the fourth year, one-half of
the year is spent in reviewing the work already studied, and
in more advanced work along the original exercises.
Solid Geometry is taken in connection with Review
Geometry by pupils preparing for technical schools. Plane
and Spherie Trigonometry are offered in the fourth year.
Most of the technical schools require the Plane only, Columbia University being the exception in this respeet. Graphic

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
Solutions of Equations forms part of the work in many of
these courses.

To expedite the work in Solid Geometry set of charts
has been constructed, the Manual Training Department furnishing frame for exhibiting these charts.

MODERN LANGUAGE DEPARTMENT.

Three years’ work in French and in German, and one in
Spanish are given in this department. In French, first year,
Part One of Fraser and Squair’s grammar, Lessons to  
inclusive, are covered thoroughly; the three regular conjugations complete and twelve of the most important irregular
verbs. The reading is done from Super’s Elementary French

Reader. Exercises are given in pronounciation, conversation,
dictation and memorizing. Each pupil has note book for
tabulations, grammatical terms and idioms.

In French, second year, the grammar is completed, all
exercises are written out and placed upon the blackboard before the classes, corrected and reviewed. Books of similar
grade required for college examinations are read during this
vear, and on the reading days French is the sole language of
the classroom. Drills emphasizing thoroughness in the details
of the language are constantly held. Exercises in pronunciation and conversation are continued and enlarged upon.

In French, third year, is given review of the grammar —
work of the first two years, reading of required books, writing
essays. Much stress is placed upon composition work in this
year. French is used almost exclusively in the classroom.
Note books are used, required as in first and second-year
French, but of more advanced character.

The drill in German is along somewhat similar lines to
that conducted in French, covering all of the work demanded
by the colleges with additional work suitable to the scholars
and to the conditions of the school.

One year is given to Spanish. The Spanish of every day
hfe is emphasized. This work is eventually intended to corre  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

late more and more with the commercial department. Frequently business houses in Holyoke send Spanish letters to the
. High School for translation. It will not be long before it will

be necessary to have in many of the offices clerks who are able

to translate and read in Spanish. The High School hopes to be

able to supply this demand.

A French club and German club, each meeting every
two weeks, aid the classroom work materially by promoting
free conversational use of the languages and bringing the
pupils into closer touch with life and art in France and
Germany.

Three illustrated foreign periodicals are subscribed to,
many interesting photographs are shown, and number of
pupils carry on correspondence with pupils of like age in
French and German schools.

SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

In the first year Physiography is offered, the class reporting five times week throughout the school year. In addition
to the ordinary text book study, laboratory and field work are
made important features in this subject.

The earth is first studied as planet, showing its origin,
shape, size, structure, and motion. The relief form of the
earth, showing the mountain and river development, and contour maps are studied-in general way. In addition particular emphasis is placed upon loeal physical features. From
time to time, field trips are taken; sueh places as Mountain
Park, Mount Nonotuck, Fairview, Pearl City and Leeds have
been visited. In all of these places, attention was ealled to the

 special features found in each locality visited. Reports are
made upon these trips, and they are under the supervision
of the instructor.

During the second half of the year the elass studies land
forms, based on United States sheets, among them, Savannah,
Ii].; St. Paul, Minn.; Boothbay, Me.; Harrisburg, Pa.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

The study of coast line is based upon the ‘‘Harvard”’
models of mountain coast. Photographs of important physical
features found in the United States are studied, and stereopticon talks are given from time to time. The laboratory exercises are chiefly drawn from Darling’s Laboratory Manual.

It is planned that Physiography shall be an introductory
science, followed naturally by sciences of subsequent years. In
the second year course of Elementary Physics is followed.
It consists chiefly of laboratory work and recitations on Mechanics, Light, Electricity and Magnetism. The same text is
used as in the advanced Physies, but most of the mathematical
work is omitted. The laboratory exercises deal with the more
simple experiments under the head mentioned. The course is
intended to interest as well as to instruct the pupil in matters
scientific which enter into his daily life at home and at school.
It is also intended for the preparation of the more strictly
scientific course in chemistry and advanced Physics.

Chemistry is given to the third and fourth-year students,
and as far as possible the economic and industrial side of the
subject is kept in view. The outline of the text is extended
by study of common minerals and ores; starch and yeast, in |
connection with fermentation are studied under the microscope. Several experiments in direct dyeing are introduced
under hydrocarbon compounds. The course intends to fit for
the college entrance examination and college certificates, and
also to fit the students to do strong work in later courses in
technical schools and colleges to which many of our pupils go.
On the days when laboratory hours occur, the periods are extended from forty-five minutes to one and one-half hours.

In advanced Physics, the important side of this work, in
addition to the number of experiments required by the colleges,
is the excursions to the various points in and about the city,
where practical application of the Jaboratory work is studied.
By the courtesy of those in charge, this class often visits:

The Head Gates at Holyoke Dam.

Hydraulic Testing Flume.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Electric Generating Plant.

Municipal Light Plant.

Street Railway Power House.

The Organ of the Second Congregational Church.

Municipal Gas Works.

Engine rooms of various manufacturing companies.

In Botany, the course is in nature study rather than an
analytic or experimental course. Through the autumn, a
study of plant societies is made, and the student becomes acquainted with all the common forest trees in the loeality, in
their autumn aspect. They are again studied in the econdition of opening buds and blossoms. Winter laboratory studies
consist of cell structures; parts of typical flower; an alga: a
fern; liverwort: selaginella; fungus; type Hower forms.

In the spring study is made of the common flowers in their
homes. Frequent excursions are made to the fields, ponds. 
swamps, meadows and hillsides of this locality. The stereopticon is also used as means of lantern journeys to typical lo.  alities in study of plant geography and relation to plant
distribution.
HISTORY DEPARTMENT.

The History work taken up in the school consists of two
vears’ work in Ancient History, one vear of American History and Civies, in two courses, one vear of English Ihistory,
and one-half vear of Irish History.

The Ancient History comes in the first vear, in the colleve preparatory course, but may be eleeted by students taking
the general course. The class reports three hours per week
threughout the vear. The work covers brief study of the
Eastern Nation, but the time is mainly spent on the history of
Gre and Rome down to the fall of the Roman Empire.
Note books are used for summaries and outlines. Ancient History is again taken in the third or four vear, as review work.
eovering more intensively and in more advanced way, the. |
work of the first vear. The purposes of this are to prepare .

REPORT OF SCHOOL: COMMITTEE.  
for college, to show the unity of history and to show the
place of ancient nations in the development of civilization.

Irish History is offered twice week for one-half year,
and may be elected by any student in the school. The text
book used is Johnson’s Story of Ireland.

English History is offered in the third year and the work
is based mainly upon the Outline of English History, authorized by the New England History Teachers’ Association.

United States History is given in two separate courses,
one of five hours per week, and one of three hours per week.
Of this, one hour per week throughout most of the year is devoted to special study of Civics. Stress is placed upon topical
work, discussion, reference work and note books. In all of
the history work it is the intention to make the student as independent as possible in the study of the subject; special
topics are given and the pupil is informed where he may
secure the material, and from time to time these special topies
are presented to the class.

Through the study of History working knowledge of
library books may be obtained. The ability to use to advantage reference works is of great practical value to the pupil,
not only in history and in his other school subjects, but in
his life beyond the school walls. Individuality and originality in presenting subject matter in the history recitations are
encouraged.

In the Civies class special attention is given to local
government and illustrations taken, whenever possible, from
matters of interest at the present time.

COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT.

, In the Commercial Department the course of study has
been carefully revised... The subjects not strictly technical
are Commercial Geography, Civies, and Commercial Law.
For next’ vear, in addition, it is planned to have classes in
History of Commerce and Economies. These subjects correlate directly with commercial branches. They are not added

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,

with the intention of making students experts in any one of
these subjects, but to give them the necessary knowledge that
a broader grasp of the commercial problems demands.

The work in Bookkeeping has been changed so as to be
completed in two years, in order more fully to meet the demands of those pupils who cannot remain in school for a
longer period. Such pupils can now get the entire Bookkeeping course in the two years, and at the same time are in the
regular work of the four-year course, so that if circumstances
will finally permit of their remaining for the four years, they
will not suffer from any break or change in their course.

In the second year the work includes complete sets in
commission business with its special books; wholesale business,
introducing special column work; and manufacturing set ,
in which the voucher system of accounting is introduced. |
Some pupils, in addition to this do set in banking. The
work of the two years is based upon the Williams and Rogers
Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping, with much supplementary
work from other sources. ;

The work in Commercial Arithmetic takes four periods

per week during the first year. In this work much stress is laid
upon rapid computation and accuracy in the work, and an
attempt is made to develop the pupil’s power of reasoning.
Fractions, simple measurements, percentage and interest with
their application in loss and gain, commission, discount, insurance and partnership are given especial attention. Home work
of from six to eight problems is assigned each day, based upon
Moore’s Commercial Arithmetic, while the class period is
divided between explanations by the instructor, and work, oral
and with pencil, by pupils.

In all commercial subjects, thorough understanding of
the work covered, rather than the amount of work done, is
being emphasized. Written reviews or tests are given in all
subjects as often as once in five weeks, while frequent and
constant reference to principles that have been covered keeps
the whole subject fresh in the pupil’s mind. growing inREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
terest in the work seems to be manifest and spirit of earnestness seems to pervade the department. There have been many
less withdrawals than in previous years, which fact is attributed to the special foundation work in Bookkeeping, which
gives the pupils better understanding of the work, and to the
much smaller number of pupils of the first year who are
undertaking to do work in Stenography. Experience has
shown that but very few first-year pupils are sufficiently
mature to grasp this subject, and many pupils have had their ,
high school work spoiled by attempting it.

Stenography, which previously was offered three years,
is now taught in the last two years. Special commercial students who cannot remain in the school more than two years
are allowed to take Stenography in their first and second year.

The mid-year examination for the advanced class will
average about one hundred words minute on fairly difficult
matter and transcription of the same by pen. In Typewriting
we are teaching entirely the touch system, applying this ‘system both to pupils who were not accustomed to it as well as to
students in the beginning class. The advantages have been
most marked. As fast as the advanced pupil finishes his lesson on the keyboard, he is set to transcribing from his stenographic notes. The work in typewriting has been very helpful to the other departments of the school. Stencils have been
made for the cooking class lessons, English, French, German
and Latin classes. Several entire plays have been copied in
earbon. We have turned out more than copies of different things in the course of one week. The largest amount
of work of this kind done in one day was as follows:

Stencil. copies of two-page program for the auditorium.
Carbon. copies of song.
Carbon. copies of song.
Carbon. copies of recipes for cooking.
Carbon. copies of English verse.
Carbon. copies of poems.
Stencil. copies of commercial papers.
 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

The advanced pupils do considerable assistance of routine
work in the office, different students being assigned from time
to time for this work. Positions seem to be waiting for all
who are really competent, and ready when they graduate. The
teacher keeps in touch with the graduates and in several  nstances has been able to secure better positions for those graduates as well as placing new pupils in the positions vacated.

In regard to other schools in this vicinity, think that
the Tyvpewriting and Stenography compare most favorably.
No great stress is placed upon exhibition work. Work in keeping with the commercial houses of Holyoke is constantly kept
in mind and office practice is made one of the important features of the work.

ART DEPARTMENT.

In the Art Department the work is more individual, as
scholars differ so materially in ability and rapidity with
which they do this form of work. Four days in the week the
art teacher is present and the room is well occupied during the
hours the teacher  here.

The drawing and painting of flower and fruit sprays !
occupy the first part of the fall term. These are done in pencil
and water-colors. The theory of color  also taken up, noting
the different hues, values and intensities of color and planning color harmonies for decorative appheation. The latter
part of the fall term is devoted to lettering and design, the
results of this study taking the form of menu and Christmas
ecards, mottoes, book-cover designs, ete.

During the winter the study of still life subjects and of
designs to be developed along the lines of various eraft oeeupy
most of the term. An effort is made in planning the work in
design to meet the needs of actual life so that pupils will
learn to desien articles for individual use or those needed in
the home. Stencil patterns are designed and applied in many
cases to mats, table runners, sofa cushions, curtains, ete. Some
interesting metal work is done in the shape of buekles, hatREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
pins, ete. Articles in cut and tooled leather are also produced,
such as bags, mats, belts, purses, and desk sets.

Many students develop marked ability in planning designs
to meet their special needs and other needs of the school, such
as posters, pennants, covers and illustrations for the school
paper. The ability to meet the actual demands of practical
life in an artistic manner is one of the most satisfactory products of art training.

The work in drawing is completed in the spring by continuing the study of designs and making study of spring
growths and flowers. Five pupils sent designs last year to a
competition in which thousands competed and every one of
the Holyoke pupils received prize.

MECHANICAL DRAWING DEPARTMENT.

In the Mechanical Drawing Department pupils are
enrolled, most of them taking four hours of work per week.
The work in all four years is carried on as follows:

In the first year, thirty drawings on Projection to Machine
design.

In the second year, fifteen drawings on Machine design.

In the third year, Specializing in Architectural, Mechanical or Electrical drawings.

In the fourth year, Advanced Work in specialties.

Each year several boys are placed with local concerns.
All who go to technical schools and have taken two or more
years of the subject receive certificates, if the grade of work
is satisfactory, and they are allowed credit in entering these
schools.

The mechanical drawing course which is about to be introduced has the original feature of being correlated with Elementary Mechanics and Geometry. The drawings were
especially selected and prepared that these two allied subjects
might be shown in direct application. Sketches of the objects
must be made that the pupils may get more concise idea of
what is to be drawn, mechanically. |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
MANUAL TRAINING DEPARTMENT.

In the first half of the first year, the work consists of
progressive exercises in pattern making, the final exercise to
be one of the pupil’s own design, taken from any casting or
part of any machine in this department or elsewhere. The
second half consists of progressive exercises in wood turning,
finishing with models in fancy turning, such as powder boxes,
napkin rings, cuff and collar boxes, ete.

In the first half of the second year, the work consists of
models in pattern making, the first beg very simple, but
taken from part of the lathes where the students are working.
The final models are more difficult, requiring special ecore
boxes, great deal of fitting, fine workmanship and careful
study.

The second half is devoted to models in furniture construction. The following models have been completed during
the past year; taborets, hall stands, pedestals, bookeases, desks,
square and round library tables, music cabinets, three-fold
screens, shirtwaist boxes, umbrella stands, ete.

During the past year five No. F. E. Wells pattern- ,
makers’ lathes have been added. They are equipped with a
large spindle, having been extended in the rear bevond the
back box and fitted with  -inch screw chuck, which ean be
used for turning large work. Also Sheldon benches have !
been added, making the department much larger and better
adapted to take care of the large classes of the high school.

In this report it is difficult to go into detail of all the work
that is being done the Manual Training Department, but
from what has been accomplished with the equipment we now
have, it is certain that when the time arrives the school will
be ready to take up metal work in as practical and as satisfaetory manner as it is now doing in the wood work.

DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

In the Cooking Department the first vear  taken up with |

the preparation of all conumon food stuffs, study of many |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
of the principles underlying good cookery, the fundamental
foods, composition of foods, digestion, eeonomy in buying, and
food values. The cuts of meat are taught from charts, also by
visits to some of the city markets, where the scholars have witnessed the cutting of the carcasses of beef, pork and lamb into
marketable pieces. Special emphasis is laid on personal cleanliness as well as the cleanliness of the house. Labor-saving
devices and care of household utensils are considered. One of
the instructive trips which was taken this year was to Amherst
Agricultural College, where the production of certified milk
was inspected and the importance of clean and wholesome
milk emphasized. It is expected that Professor Lockwood of
that college will give talk to the school some time in March.
The subject will be the ‘‘Care of Milk in the Home.’’ Last
year Miss Anna Barrows, an Instructor of Domestie Science in
Teachers’ College, New York, was secured for one Parents’
Day. She gave talk in the morning on the value of course
in domestic science to school girls. In the afternoon she gave
a very interesting demonstration of ‘‘Fundamental Foods. ”’

The second year cooking deals with the study of dietetics
and hygiene, the cooking and serving of meals, the study of
what constitutes well balanced diet, the preparing of nourishing meals at the lowest possible cost, the feeding of children, invalid cookery, household chemistry and an elementary
course In emergencies and first aid to the injured. Last year
the school physician gave talk to the class along these latter
lines and demonstrated bandaging.

Through the parents it has been learned that the courses
in this part of the Domestie Science work are produeing direct
results. Students cook at home with success, and sometimes
instruct the family concerning labor-saving devices and the
choice and economy of foods.

This department, like all others of the school, is constantly
open to the inspection of the public, and hope that greater
interest will be taken in it. as no other department more nearly
affects and influences our daily life. The knowledge acquired

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
by the girl of today, if put into practice, cannot fail to make
the next generation healthier, happier and more efficient.

In the sewing classes, the first-year work is devoted
partly to hand-sewing, making of large apron, and models
showing plain stitches; feather stitching; buttonholes, patching and darning. The machine work consists in making underclothes involving the economy of buying and cutting; models
showing varieties of seams; facings, bindings, discussions of
materials and trimmings; sewing apron; shirtwaists, ete.

When time allows, other articles are made and practice is
given in fitting and some discussion is spent on textiles. In
the second year the work is of more advanced nature, such as
drafting of patterns and dressmaking. It would seem that it
would be sensible and practical requirement to require of
each girl in the High School, before she receives her diploma,
the ability to prepare simple meal and make her own graduation dress.

} ELOCUTION DEPARTMENT.

In the Elocution Department, an aim is made to the development of good speaking voice, and the ability to express
clearly, forcibly and intelligibly the spoken word. The subject
is open to al] the pupils except those of the first-year class.

The work of the first-year class consists of exercises in
articulation, enunciation and pronunciation ;.the discovery of 
voice, and its proper functional relation. Selections are
learned and recited from the text book under the progressive
stages of animation of voice, smoothness of voice, volume of
voice, and breath control and correct attitude is taught and
practiced.

The work of the second vear is along similar lines, the
pupil showing greater ease and power of voice. The forensic
style of oratory is explained and illustrated. The first rules
of gesture are introduced and the art of extemporaneous
speaking encouraged and practiced. Selections from Shakespeare—scenes in Julius Caesar—sphes from Merchant of

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Venice, are used to illustrate the dramatic side of oratory,
dranzatic atmosphere and impersonation.
In the third year development is made in literary analysis,
vitalazed pictures, taste and ratio of values. Scenes from Merchant of Venice, Macbeth and Julius Caesar are presented
draniatically. Gesture is developed and strengthened and general attention is paid to ease, grace, smoothness of voice and
power of delivery.

Reference books in addition to the regular text books are
used throughout the course.

At the inter-scholastie oratorical contest held in Syracuse
last May, George Hallett, pupil of the senior class in the
School, was awarded first prize among twelve contestants
representing prominent secondary schools.

PHYSICAL TRAINING DEPARTMENT.

Physical Training for girls consists principally of corrective and recreative gymnastics, exercise constituted to meet
the needs of growing girls and the need of relaxation. We
have used system of free gymnastic movements calculated to
strengthen and develop the muscles, give body tone and physical poise and promote the general health and activity. Or. ganized play and gymnastic games have been made special
feature of the work, also marching exercises and harmonious
and rythmic movements taken to musie. Folk-dancing has
recently been added to our recreative work and is source of
much pleasure. Deep breathing and correct carriage of the
body in standing, walking and running have been taught.
Gymnastic games, such as basketball play, circle, dodge, medieine ball, have been plaved, and in the warm weather pupils
are taken outdoors for games suitable to the surroundings. 
Perfect physical development and cleanliness go hand in hand.
This fact has been emphasized in the talks given on personal
hygiene or the care of the body; on proper methods of
breathing, eating, sleeping and bathing.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Some of the needs of the gymnasium are, the placing of
; permanent seats for the students, and the installing of vacuum cleaner. It is difficult to keep the floor of the basement
gymnasium free from dust, even by frequent sweeping. If the
floors could be properly oiled and the vacuum cleaner installed,
this difficulty would be removed, and hygiene could be more
logically taught in room freer from dust.

In the boys’ class of physical training, in the fall and
spring, when the weather is favorable, outdoor games are
played. In the gymnasium different exercises are taken up
and games suitable to the gymnasium are played. Talks on
the care of the body—how to stand and walk, rest and sleep—
on breathing and proper diet are given. It  not the purpose
of instruction to develop muscular giants, or to out-do some
other boy, but it is the purpose to acquire normal muscular
development, to help the boy in his other work in school, as
well as in the work before him when he leaves the school.

MUSIC.

There are about scholars in the school taking musie:
About in the senior class in the chorus, which is eleetive from the three lower classes; the boys’ and girls’ glee
clubs, together with the orchestra, which have membership
of over  .

The senior class and each of these clubs meet once a
week, the seniors meeting the first half of the first period on
Wednesday followed by the chorus the seeond half of this
same period. The orehestra meets the first period, the girls’
vlee club the second period and the bovs’ glee club the third
period on Friday mornings.

Some of the music being rehearsed by the senior class
will be used at the commencement exercises in June. The
second class  working along similar lines to the seniors, studying from the famous composers, such as Beethoven and Mozart.
The preparation in the grammar schools has been of great
value in preparing the Tigh School bovs and girls for the

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
work they are taking here. In November the chorus from the
boys’ and girls’ glee clubs sang at the opening exercises of the
Hampden County Teachers’ Association exercises in Springfield. The selections were well received.

The orchestra has membership of about  and is frequently in evidence at the opening exercises of the school and .
special exercises here as well as in other schools. The orchestra
played at the opening of the Ingleside school.

Some instruments for the orchestra have been purchased
from part of the lecture fund and more will be secured as
needed. These instruments are the property of the school and
when boys or girls wish to play such instruments, they may
have the use of them while members of the school. About
$  has been spent so far for the purpose of buying instruments for the orchestra.

The High School Committee recently recommended that
racks be placed in the auditorium at the backs of the seats,
for the purpose of holding music books. This will be great
improvement to the school and will not make necessary the just
eriticism of the music director, that scholars are not prepared
to take part in the opening exercises in the school, having no
books in their possession. The director also suggested that an
upright piano be purchased for smal] room for the rehearsal
of the glee clubs and orchestra. This would not necessitate
the use of the auditorium which is large room and where
small clubs of this kind cannot be satisfactorily drilled.

This report of the work that is being done in the school
is only suggestion of what is really being accomplished.
From it you and the readers of this report may be able to gain
a more satisfactory knowledge of the daily workings of the
High School. trust that it may result in giving information to those who may care for it, and cause greater interest m
the Holyoke High School on the part of our citizens.

Respectfully submitted,
HOWARD CONANT,
Principal.

REPORT OF THE

Principal of the Evening

High School
Mr. John L. Riley, Superintendent of Schools.

Dear Sir: The year just closing marks the end of the
most successful session our Evening High School has ever had.
For long time we have been laboring to build up in our city
an evening school which would furnish our working boys and
girls with opportunities to better their condition in life; to
lift them up from positions of mere drudgery and dull routine

; to higher plain, where, by study and appheation in the
classes which are opened to them, they are better equipped
mentally and morally to grapple with the problem of
existence.

We have broadened out considerably in our work since
my last report and with the opening of few more courses
which shall refer to later our school will compare favorably
with that of anv manufacturing city in the Commonwealth.

As time goes on and our registration inereases it becomes
more and more apparent that this school must develop into an
industrial high sehool or sehool of trades, for, although our
acadeinie or college preparatory courses are well patronized,
yet the demand for the commercial, industrial and technical
courses is so much greater that it is only question of time
when the membership of these classes alone will make total
of pupils large enough to form good sehool of trades. .

At the present time we are very much behind many other
cities in the equipment of the school and the facilities for
properly handling these courses, but good beginning was

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
made this year in fitting up basement room for the class in
electricity. In this room benches have been made for the use
‘of the pupils and also individual work-boxes or drawers.
Several booths have been erected representing house interior
in order to give pupils practical work in wiring, cut-outs,
switches, ete. In addition to this good supply of electrical
apparatus has been provided and two experienced men are
in charge of the classes as instructors. One hundred men are
enrolled in this course, and the class is divided into three
sections, each section meeting one evening week for practical
work and the entire class meeting one evening week for lecture instruction. This course, although only just opened,
promises to be one of our best attended and most interesting.

For several years past we recommended the opening of
the manual training department for evening school] use and at
last our request is granted. The course opened last October
with an excellent enrollment and the work of the classes thus
far is exceptionally good. Not only are the boys turning out
some fine work in the manual training room, but many of them
are making splendid progress in pattern-making and lathe
work.

The classes in steam engineering have had good attendance and in the first and second-year work the interest has been

; well sustained. In the advanced course, however, we have
suffered materially because of lack of proper equipment. A
small Corliss engine should be immediately provided for the
use of pupils in this department, and thus equipped we could
hold many pupils who are forced to attend private schools and
pay for that instruction which we should be able to furnish
them without cost.

The attendance in the commercial department has increased to such an extent that it became necessary early in
the term to open an additional room. The work of the department has been systematized and placed under the general
supervision of one man. The work in the stenography classes,
although somewhat handicapped by the withdrawal of two

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
excellent teachers yet  doing good work and there are at
least score of pupils in the advanced class who are fully competent to fill positions.

The class in mechanical drawing has an increased attendance and the work has greatly improved, which improvement
is due in some degree to the new and complete sets of inatru. ments provided for the pupils.

The classes in civil service, mathematics and modern
languages are well up to the standard of last year, while the
class in English has much larger attendance than in previous
years.

Believing that the cultivation of the social’ side of the
school life is material factor in promoting spirit of loyalty
to the school, there are held from time to time school meetings,
on which occasions the pupils gather in the auditorium and
listen to addresses by persons interested in the work of the
school and its pupils and enjoy short program of musical
and literary character. We are indebted to Mrs. W. G. Dwight,
ex-Mayor N. P. Avery, District Attorney C. T. Callahan and
Superintendent J. L. Riley for some excellent addresses during the past year. During the present year also glee club
and orchestra have been organized and are doing good work in
the limited time allowed them for practice. |

RECOMMENDATIONS.

I would recommend first of all complete and full equipment of supplies for the use of the evening classes, thus
obviating the necessity of borrowing from the day schoo] with
the resultant inconvenience and confusion.

An office for the use of the evening school, where our
records, files and supplies may be kept in proper order. At
present we are crowded into small room oceupied by one of
the janitors of the school, and the principal and clerk are
foreed to eonduct the work of the office in room which  
used in part as store room for janitor’s supplies. These

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
conditions should be immediately remedied. Surely the school |
ls important enough now to merit an office room.

A small Corliss engine, or at least the valve section, for !
the use of the steam engineering class. This is urgently
 needed, for it is something which is provided in all good
schools where this branch is taught.
' During the past year we have done much for the young :
men by opening the manual training rooms and the course in
electricity, but it seems to me that at the opening of the next
school term provision should be made to help our young  :
women. There is in the day school an excellent domestic
Science department which might well be used at night. :
would not yet advise that courses in cooking, table service,
etc, be taught, but do strongly urge that our young women :
be taught sewing and such work connected therewith as will
lead to instruction in dressmaking. have no doubt that a
course of this kind, as well perhaps as one in millinery, would
be weleomed by large number of young women now working
In mills and offices who would be greatly benefited thereby.
I called attention to this need in previous report, and I
earnestly hope the matter will receive careful and favorable
attention. |
In closing wish to acknowledge the courtesy of Mr.
W. S. Loomis, of the Holyoke Street Railway Company, for |
granting to the pupils of the Evening High School the privilege of using half fare tickets when riding on the street cars
toand from the school building. This concession is greatly ap- ,
preciated by the pupils, particularly in stormy weather.
Respectfully submitted,
P. J. GARVEY.

General Statistics }

Population of Holyoke, May, 
Total valuation of property, 
Total number of children of school age  to 
Total number from to years of age  
Total number of pupils in all schools, year ending June,   
Number under years of age. to,  
Number over years of age...  
Number between and years of age  
Average membership in all schools  
Average attendance  
Per cent of attendance...  
Total income of school department. 
Total expenditure , 
Balance unexpended  
Expended by Board of Public Works (new |

buildings, repairs, fuel, power, light, water,

janitors and janitors’ supplies) 
Total expenditure for support of schools. 
Cost per pupil based on average membership 
Cost per pupil based on average membership, 
Average for the state, report of 
Tax on one dollar of valuation. $. 

Financial Statistics
I. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. |
RECEIPTS.

Dog taxes. . 

Tuition ...  

Truant school.  

Sales.  
—------— 
Appropriation. , 
Total income , 
Total expenditure , 
Balance unexpended , 

EXPENDITURES AND ESTIMATES.

Expenditures Estimates
 
Day School Teachers  
Evening School Teachers  
Supervisors  
Superintendent  
Clerks  
Truant Officers  
Janitor.  
Building Supplies.  
Educational Supplies  
Furniture  
Text Books  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,
Truant School  
Freight, Express and Cartage 
Laundry 
Livery  
Office Expense i.  
Printing and Advertising  
Rentals.  
Transportation  
Telephones  
Census.  
Unclassified  
Total  
Probable Receipts. 
$ 
Appropriation asked for 

II. CLASSIFIED EXPENDITURES.

SALARIES OF SUPERINTENDENT, CLERKS AND TRUANT OFFICERS.
Supermtendent—John L. Riley 
Clerks—Agnes M. Cadieux  
Mary J. Callahan  
Ida A. St. Martin  
Truant Officers—Thomas W. Doyle  
Edouard Cadieux  
Thomas E. Gallacher  
Thomas H. Finn (substitute)  
Eugene A. Lvneh (census) —.  
Michael Kerin (eensus)  
Total. $ 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
BUILDING SUPPLIES.
Batteries, gongs, etc. . 
Mats. ,  
Soap. ,  
Thermometers  
Miscellaneous  
Total. $ 
EDUCATIONAL SUPPLIES.

Bookkeeping $ 
Busy Work ,  
Compasses ,  
Crayon .  
Domestic Science  
Drawing. 
Electricity.  ...  
English ,  
Erasers, rubber  
Erasers, blackboard.  
Flags  
History .  
Ink ,  
Inkwells .  
Kindergarten  
Manual training  
Mathematics  
Music LS  
Paints and brushes. Lo  
Paper ,  
Paste, ete...  
Pencils H  
Pencil sharpeners  
Pens and penholders oo,  
Rulers  d

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Science .  
Scissors , )
Stenography  
Waste baskets.  
Writing ,  
Miscellaneous  
Total. $ 
TEXT BOOKS.
Bookkeeping $ 
Commercial  
Domestie Science  
Drawing.  
English ,  
French and German  
Geography ,  
Flistory ,  
Kindergarten  
Latin and Greek  
Library ;  
Mathematics  
Musie ,  
Science ,  
Stenography  
Miscellaneous  
Total. $ 
II SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
December . 
January  
February  
March  .

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

April  

May  

June   ,

July...  

August  

September  

October.  

November  

Total for year foo, 
Total receipts , 
Balance unexpended oo, 

SMDOMNCOMMAs
HNOokn
HAG aANatOAKORGONSS Stan fL£fE€S SSF AEBENSCAMBEKSKHHTHADOSN Was SHoge Ger 
SHRSLSHOPAMRPHORSLOS Sen Lene ao 
sTeIOL INA ADOMUMBAtANASTR OBrie Wor She a
DNSDNMONDSCSES Owam one talk oOo  ,
on
ao.o--o  wo. $$ |
ee OO we OS  iil
snoo ie “Zig ili sig: Bas G: S's Ss
.  mo.) oeoe)  
UE [[IISI PY Soe re te ot rt ou: [ror Rte S
e Sadee  e}
   
.  |
Sg ickismrrii:: S ti: oi:bio   ——|- UOorzey PSST Piri iim ori oii: 
. NX es bd a
:tel toe oe .
- odsuesy eS rH BF   iF oe: The te et S
:ara "cf es rs 
—  ew:
SP ET J
B  ppi ie rib bit: @r  ite aC |
Busty Aifiipipiib  Rip prime fis || '
-JIAPYV pue we  [OR es pk te IS oR |
Sunuisgd Brits bib bbe trp eet Ser tie ig || '
muug Biri  :  eiiti: Ciro ii: iis  
———— ct fs a
ecestesc -SSSENeE TSS Seo .
SSSRESE ESSERE SESE Cit lr: Tis B
souogd SHO GAs igsoewes ineess    OC GS &
Adalat MAMNRAN LHENANHNM "ANN Ut Et Db e
bl fe
eees
. eo oe wo
eePy 
ee .
Raewneorts oem” Soe 
: MOR tee SKK NeN SES! Tih firth bis mo |
op) Aspune MEGGNnSm ineescXkx lees  rit   iis !
 puneyy SOSSMER IP RCENE SSE   rit ri? |
 “a ae port re)
   |
ames im ———
ee RSSZ LSA ZERSIZ iSlH SEF ERLE  -— :
Wavy WAN leS ere oN ‘eiugin GOe sees oe an |
'@) Deen se OQ Nm Sa CNS an} :
Th pue Jomog Rh aad  of ON oe Nm peed or oft ro)  ba ra
ww :
i  oe)
a oS BREE ESSE TE OE SE
 TNA RECS RES HR HM SRLS ene are: iis |
WweiestOen Nera cant sena ey  ied 
a [eny Spam te SMI DeHnNeI aint mN ta .
SeisSRSSrmBESS EEN SEER mm OD Cwee a) mn
io nw iz .—— FS he HG asd afd RA nxn: re)  oe
A eg
ae 
i Gree tee LBSeiast ot $$$ |
 SER St Ebanecane  S: GES AiQli si: a
Serene ecriarwres ices:    a
Za Syood xo SSO BNO CSSD  SSM Wie fee ;
  SERGeS SS SIGs hk Z: SAS SA Ti |g
| mn  oF
 —— RA    o
mS Im aAaoOoceo  —*
oO PSZHIBSSER BES ARSE ii  : fie &
 asuywusN Hes IRONS ARKO le Ft tele ioe ol
 wing) BAAS CHESTS STR ATS Ll ii: ii gS
A oe of.
. nll eon on en
|| conaine Sees aN ez SteS ‘S  SSE oie: ee: Te
ai tIGdns SSuarsdencssar Gren sda: 
ma Om OKO Mle ENE NOD sitar ft) Oo wo. on Oo ce
jeuoNeonpyA, wans TESA ERES AT ST RMP mw. EF h-  Cm :
mE t
ye  :
a t
| SSS Sea SNGRS ERSE PD PTE ad
 r) Pd om : bd —
sayddns PARAMONATAOSNA NHK Fes bits ors es
. ANMNADOCEMOHMNDMM oe s+  ]
oni ett Os ose ar  
Suiping ne TEN AN INS wee ae scot .
e Pm bd ry ry
  &*  Cc
.  eo es wR
ee 
se 
SESS ESS       ES? E
a ae ae LS -™t- out feet  eo NN
djay pue CtSdn er Kesg ede antTK cas  cos  nN
Ge   RMS RSM Tt manera Sas SEZ: é
ssoyuel OE EI Stet Otsee gS fs: ae  
we oe :
—— t
FE oof 
OMNES FO MEAN CENSNN CHS wee: Sow” sad
SCOUMMEZTERKRRRMISSSANS SES SSS: FES —
em  ay a.)  it  
Mes ket tn emails pi NO OM
  etiovgegssdnragesesed axe ede ese 
u eae yt Lee SE Stes nto  at. "
HOP AL STERN SSR SHEN eaees  EES bes
zocatedtenanss won "os coc. WS t
ae ed lo) ame] 
wr and Lon
» w@
  ot
Sr te Rt isl: ikei cise ee
 me ne ae pi ev. .
.  Ss 
Si piligiiliggigPet igis  : :
 “Vm  seme 
. v:  ‘s  wit nH  'S oO  .
 Ss Re -£ ty ot?) .
o LELTSETLS uer Alec -c £SES Ge i)
 CRSP SST ES SON Esc BT ak &L
 EGEGS SF SELO ats ge BS  Seaug sCuts i}
 oe Fe ce ess VoUSL we RU YY of eo Shu
a MEERSERSCSE -CRS SRREGaESev s
sc wow Slee -)  a: .e  ec
; mime ZFeCccaaceoavlr rags  Eg  
ook sitsacan-sgoetosnenys “P)  Oot Ze SeYee

|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. .
V. COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP.
Cost based on Cost based on
total expenses. teaching only.
High Sehool  
Grammar and KinderPrimary. garten, .
Appleton Street School   ,
Elm Street School  |
Elmwood School  
Ewingville School  
Hamilton Street School ,
Highland School  
Ingleside School. |
Kirtland School  
Morgan School  
Nonotuck Street School  
North Chestnut Street School.  
Park Street School  
Sargeant Street School |
South Chestnut Street School. .
Springdale School |
West Street School. |
West Holyoke  
EVENING SCHOOLS. |
High School  
Appleton Street School !
Morgan School |
No. Chestnut Street School :
Elm Street School ,
Springdale School  
West Street School |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
VI. ACTUAL SALARIES PAID TO TEACHERS OF
DAY SCHOOLS, DECEMBER .
‘ Annual Number of Number of
Salary. Men Teachers. Women Teachers.
Kindergarten,  *
 
Grades,  .  |
 *
 )
 
High School,  
 
  |
 
.  . 
|  
*Also one additional teacher on leave of absence.
|

——
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
VII. ACTUAL SALARIES PAID TO PRINCIPALS OF
. DAY SCHOOLS, DECEMBER |
Annual Number of Number of
Salary. Men Principals. Women Principals. :
Elementary, )
  .
  ,
  ,
High,  
VIII. ACTUAL SALARIES PAID TO TEACHERS AND
PRINCIPALS OF EVENING SCHOOLS,
DECEMBER .
Salary Mien’ Women Principals, |
per Evening. Teachers. Teachers. All Men.
Elementary,  :
 
High, |
   .
 

“:
 REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
| IX. RULES RELATING TO SALARIES OF TEACHERS.
. From Rules and Regulations of School Department,
: Page  Rule  .
- The established salaries of teachers shall be as follows:
ts Teachers of Grades I, II, IfI, IV, V, VI:—
| First year in charge of school 
os Second year in charge of school.  
of Third year in charge of school  
Fourth year in charge of school  
oy Fifth and sucding years  
Loot Teachers of Grade VII :—
- First year in charge of school 
oe Second year in charge of school.  
se Third year in charge of school  
Pan Fourth year in charge of school  
| Fifth and sucding years  
- Teachers of Grade VIII :—
. First year in charge of school 
Seeond year in charge of school |
 Third year in charge of school |
— Fourth year in charge of school.  
, Fifth and sucding years ,
  Teachers of Grgde IX :— !
First year in charge of school 
, Seeond year in charge of school  
. Third year in charge of school  
| Fourth year in charge of school  
o Fifth and sueding years.  
. Prineipals of Kindergarten :—
First. year in eharge of school  |
- Second year in charge of school  
Third year in charge of school —.  
oe Fourth and sucding years  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Assistants in Kindergarten :—

First year. . 

Second year   .

Third and sucdings years  
Principals of primary buildings :—

First year in charge of school 

Second year in charge of school  

Third and thereafter.  

Principals of grammar schools shall receive, if of not more
than eight rooms,  for the first year, with yearly increase of  for six years; eighth year and thereafter, .
If of more than eight rooms,  the first year, with yearly ;
increase of  up to the maximum.

The established salaries of high school teachers, not heads
of departments, shall be:

For men,  for the first year of service; for each suc ding year of service,  additional until salary of
$  be reached. Upon special recommendation of the high
school principal and superintendent this salary may be increased to maximum of .

For women,  for the first year of service; for each "
sucding year of service,  additional, until salary of
$  be reached. Upon special recommendation of the high
school principal and superintendent this salary may be increased to maximum of .

|
The first seven of the following tables are based upon
actual membership and show concisely the classification and
distribution of pupils on December Ist,  .
I. MEMBERSHIP—ALL SCHOOLS.
, Total Number
of Teachers Total Number
including Pupils Average.
Principals. Enrolled. Membership.
High School,  
Grades , 
Kindergartens 
Total , 
* Also one additional teacher on leave of absence.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
II. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES IN HIGH
. SCHOOL AND GRADES.
; Z
  gif  
Class  E! .|s  .
E  |nlelBy, 
iziele BIZ#leIS(  
(    ( 
Ill. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY AGES AND
CLASSES.
| iClass
 Class. Age / /T /Total
Boys  
Post Graduate  Girls|   
Boys  
Senior Girls! | 
Boys; {/  |
JunIOF Girls|   
Boys!  
Sophomore Girls   
Boys}lta  
Freshman Girls}   
ae wltslrai bee
Total Girls}   
IV. HIGH SCHOOL—AVERAGE AGES.
Class. Boys. Girls Total
Post Graduate yrs. yrs. lmo.  yrs.  mo.
Senior yrs. mos./  yrs. mos.|/  yrs. mos.
Junior yrs. mos./  yrs. mos.:  yrs. mos:
Sophomore yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos.!  yrs. mos.
Freshman ld yrs. mos./  yrs.  mos.jlo yrs. mos.

a REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
 V. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY CLASSES
oe AND COURSES. |
  esee BC
oe C) ee} |
. ass bo   .
sei] ce |
  Um. S) GO OF ,
a Post Graduate Boys ,
oe Girls  
- Boys  
oe Senior Girls )
Boys  {| 
oo Junior Girls  
Boys  Sophomore (lirls  
oo Boys 
Freshman Girls 
oo Boys |
  Total Girls ‘|  

i
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

VI. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—DISTRIBUTION BY

GRADES.

Hiielele Be lselelelel  

Appleton St. / 
Elm Street   .

Elmwood   
Ewingville  

Hamilton St.   
Highland   
Ingleside  l|  
Kirtland  
Morgan   
Nonotuek St.  
N. Chestnut  
Park Street  
Sargeant St.  
S. Chestnut   
Springdale   
West Street | 
W. Holyoke  af  af 
Total  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
VII ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—SIZE OF CLASSES.
Number Number Number Number Number Number ,
in of in of in of
Class. Classes. Class. Classes. Class. Classes.
 
.    ]
  .. ..
 
, Classes of Classes of
Single Two or Total Total
Grades. more Grades. .
  or less to inelusive  
More than 
Total  
VIII HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Course. Boys. Girls. Total.
College Preparatory  
Technical  
Commercial  
General  
Total  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

IX. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS ENTERING SEPTEMBER,  .

Boys. Girls. Total.

From Appleton Street School.  
From Elmwood School  
From Highland School  
From Morgan School  
From West Street School  
From West Holyoke School  
Others entering  
Total ,

X. GRAMMAR SCHOOLS—NUMBER OF PUPILS
GRADUATED JUNE,  .

Boys. Girls. ‘Total.

Appleton Street School 
Elmwood School  
Highland School  
Morgan School  
West Street School West Holyoke School  
Total.  

XI. NUMBER OF PUPILS IN GRADE IX AND
AVERAGE AGE SEPTEMBER,  .

School. Boys. Girls. Total. Average Age. Sept.  .
Appleton Street yr.  mo.  yr.  mo.
Elmwood  
Highland  
Morgan  
West 
W. Holyoke .

Total,  t

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
XI. EVENING SCHOOLS—FOR MONTH OF
NOVEMBER,  .
Number of
 Teachers Number of Number of Average
Pets Enpuiled Boeing Needsnce
High School  
Appleton Street School  
Elm Street School  
Morgan School  
West Street School  
; Total  
AIII. NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED, DECEMBER .
Superintendent of schools |
Clerks . |
Attendance officers. |
Janitor ,  
—  
In Day Schools:
Men W’m’n T’]
High School (including principal)  
Elementary school principals who have
assistants, oO  
Elementary school principals in eharge
of classes  
Ninth grade teachers  
Eighth grade teachers. il
Seventh grade teachers  
Sixth grade teachers  
Fifth grade teachers  
Fourth grade teachers  
Third grade teachers  
‘ Second grade teachers. |
First grade teachers  
|
|

!
| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Mixed grade teachers (two grades in
aroom)  
Ungraded school teachers  
Kindergarten teachers.  
Supervisors and special teachers dt  
; Substitutes regularly employed  
Total number of teachers in day schools,  
: In Evening Schools:
- High Sehool  
Elementary schools  
Total number of teachers in evening
) schools  
Total number of teachers in day and evening schools,  
Total number of persons employed,  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
XIV. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE STATISTICS FOR
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE .
Se   nn a
os .
|  El gin &
- we Zl aglaw oO] i} .. oS .
oElYs oz! Ey  £e! ys Oo} Um
oj" o| aS) vei we
eo! abs] FR sa) aS S| SF
SCHOOLS Ss jae eof |fFol R] 
PSs lS fe lg.l  g]   |ss| Blea] Es .
Eo; |) |$  |e
| aa 
as a
High  ..         wee   el] ra   
Appleton Street....... .. --| Ll   
Elm Street.........c   |]  
Elmwood  .....-. cv  |  *|  
Ewingville .....      ewes 
Hamilton Street.............+...]  *|   
Highland .......c.   |  
Ingleside ....    cc ete    ]  
Kirtland ........    ce     
Morgan .... sc e  cse|  
Nonotuck Street................-]   T
North Chestnut Street...........  *|   
Park Street..........c  ec  
eSargeant Street..........   .
South Chestnut Street...........]  *|  .
Smith’s” Ferry............ e+e -]   
Springdale ......      ees  .
West Street...........c -+|   
West Holyoke...............   
Ga
wo SES
Evening Schools: Pr
ZF
—
High wo.        ee]  
Appleton Street................-| |   
Morgan ..      esed  
North Chestnut Street...........| ]  
gprinedale   meer et we ete eens 
est Street... .. cc we ae  
*Also one additional teacher on leave of absence.

—
|
|
.
|

COMPARATIVE STATISTICS

 :

:

I EXPENDITURES FOR SEVERAL YEARS ,

)

COMPARED. :

j

ee :

| |

  |
Grade Teachers and Principals. ....|$    /$ 
High School Teachers and Principal|   
Kindergarten Teachers............    
Supervisors ..........ecc ees]   
Evening High School .............  . 
Evening Elementary Schools.......  . 
Superintendent ................  . 
Truant Officers..............+ -.  . 
Janitors oo...      . 
Clerks .......  ice     
County Truant School............  
Text Books sce    ree veces  . 
Fducational Supplies...........  . 
Printing and Advertising..........    
Furniture ......................,  . 
Building Supplies...........  
LcPhones Sette  een   
mery ote   ec  eevee eceaees  
Fansportation see   eaes  
Recent, Express and Cartage......  
Rentals Shee  ccenee    
Vinny     een  ev s  
‘+ liscellaneous and Contingent......  . 
eS Os
$   

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
II. THE HIGH SCHOOL.
Number of
For Year Expenditure Teachers Total Average 
pnang for Teachers ree alii ih Membership
 ota  .  . 
    . 
 
Ill. THE NINE GRADES.
Number of
For Year Expenditure Teachers Total Average |
Ending for Teachers including Number Membership
June Principals Enrolled
    *   OIdt  . 
  .  December Ist.  **
*Substituting in High School and Kindergartens all charged
to grades these three years.
| ** Also one teacher on leave of absence.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
: IV. THE KINDERGARTEN.
Number of
For Year Expenditure Tecahers Total Average
Ending for Teachers including Number Membership
June Principal Enrolled
    . 
   . 
  
*Also one teacher on leave of absence.
V. THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
gue gs fa     ,    
het

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
VI. THE EVENING GRAMMAR SCHOOL.
é  : a: fit:
sa  &s  Eze  fois
       
VH. THE EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
.  sg say
  be ie yi Ve Sos
Spas hee ro re .  .  . a
  Correct record not available
 .   --—S 
VIII. AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUPILS PER TEACHER
IN THE GRADES BASED UPON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP FOR MONTH OF
NOVEMBER.
ber Pepils per Pupie oe
Year Teacher in- Teacher not includPrinceats ius vee crete
   

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

IX. AVERAGE NUMBER PUPILS PER TEACHER
(INCLUDING PRINCIPALS) IN OTHER CITIES

FOR YEAR ENDING JUNE,  .

Malden .  
Gloucester. .  
Providence .  
Cambridge ,  
New Haven .  
New Bedford ,  
Bridgeport ,  
Lowell ,  
Everett .  
Lymn. we BT
Somerville .,  
Hartford, ,  
Springfield ,  
Brockton ,  
Worcester. .  
Fitchburg .  
Waterbury ,  
Fall River oo,  
Quiney Co 
Taunton .  
Pawtucket.  
Holyoke  |, 
Brookline. Lo,  
Pittsfield .  
For November,  —Holyoke  
For November,  —Holyoke  

RESIGNATIONS, APPOINTMENTS AND TRANSFERS.
DAY SCHOOL TEACHERS.
 RESIGNATIONS. |
Maude F. Connor Kathryn E. C. Carrigan
Mrs. Hannah E. Slattery Mary P. Bligh
Anna B. MeCabe Katherine A. Cleary
Elizabeth D. Hurst Francis J. Riley
John J. Curran Helen Geraghty
APPOINTMENTS.
 HIGH SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Bertha Morgan Mary W. Greeley
Clifford H. Webber Katherine  S. Keough
Charles W. Annable
Jason QO. Cook
TRANSFERS, )
Mrs. Sara E. Wilcoxen ITelena McHugh .
Anna B. Fitzgerald Margaret G. Haley
Elizabeth M. Dalton Mary E. Casey
Esther M. Greeley J. larry Kennedy
I

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
|
|
|

a
tn Memoriam |
HIRAM B. LAWRENCE |
For thirty-eight years principal of the Appleton Street Gram- ‘
mar School. Died the twentieth day of December,  .
a

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
| PUBLIC SCHOOL CHILDREN’S AID FUND.

The following table shows the yearly Thanksgiving offering of the children of the public schools. The money is spent
for clothing for needy children.

Year. Amount. Year. Amount.
   
 .  

Total, 

SCHOOL BOARD—NOONAN—GAL EIGHTEEN—
VALUE OF ART AND SCIENCE COLLECTIONS.
School Art Science Ree ne ibrary

High 

Appleton Street 

Elm Street  )

Elmwood  

Ewinegville  

Hamilton Street  

Thighland  

Kirtland  

Morgan  

Nonotuek Street  

So. Chestnut Street  

Springdale  

West Street.  

West Holyoke  

l
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
REPORT OF FIRE DRILLS,  .
Time in
School. Date. Min. and Sec.
Appleton Street, No reeord of dates available.
Elm Street, September  th ............ October  th ................ —+ 
October  th ............... 
October ................. 
November  th .............. 
November  nd ............ 
December loth .............  
Elmwood, September  th ............  
September  th ............ 
October  th ...............  
November  th ............. -—  
November .............. 
December  th .............  
Ewingville, September  nd ............ 
October  th ................ 
November  st ............. —ot
Hamilton Street, September loth ............ —a 
December  nd .............. 
September  nd ............ 
October llth ............... 
October  th .............. —a 
November llth ............ 
November  nd ............  ,
December  th ............. 
December  st ............. 
Highland, Regular drills held but no record of
dates kept.
Kirtland, September  th ............ 
October  th ............... 
November  nd ............. 
December Ist .............. 
December  th ............. 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
December  th ............. 
December  st ............. 
Morgan, September  rd ...........- -— 
September  th ............. —d 
November ............... 
December  th ............. 
Nonotuck Street, September  th ............ 
October  th ............... 
October  th ...... ....... -— 
December  th ............. —- 
December  th ............. 
North Chestnut Street, September  th ............  
October  th ............... -—  
November  th ............. -— 
December  st ............. 
Park Street, September  th ............ 
October  th ............... 
October  th ............... 
October  th ............... 
November  th .............. 
November  th ............. 
November  st ............. -- 
November  th ............. 
. December  th .............. —t 
December  th ............. 
December  th ............. 
December  rd .............  
Sargeant Street, September Regular drills held, but
October no record of dates kept.
November
December  th ............. 
December  th .............  
South Chestnut Street, September  th ............. —- 
, October  th ............... 
November  nd ...........- 
December  th ............- 

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Springdale, September  th ............ 
September  st ............. 
September  th ............. 
October  th ................ 
October  th ............... 
} November Ist .............. 
November  nd ............. —ov
December  th .............. —O 
West Street, September—No record of dates kept.
October  th. October  th.
October  th.
November  rd.
November  th.
| November  th,
November  th.
December Ist.
: December  th .............. 
; December  th ............. -— 
December  nd ............. 
RATES OF TUITION FOR NON-RESIDENT PUPILS.
The rates of tuition for non-resident pupils are as follows:
High School .  per year
Elementary Schools per year
Payable half yearly in advance.

GRADUATING CLASSES
HIGH SCHOOL.
| Carl Murdough Allen Helen Dorothea LaBreque |
, Evelyn Estella Allyn  Delia Elizabeth Lacey |
, Alice Geraldine Baker Valere Stanislas Laliberte
, Hazel Mae Barlow Florence Helen Lauckner
Carleton Howard Bemis Robert Ely Livermore
| Percival Floyd Bliss Wilbur Herman Lubold {dale
Ruth Marie Brainerd Margaret Urqhart McCorkinDorothy Murray Brooks Roy Edwin McCorkindale
Anna Mildred Brooks  Mae Jeannette McCuddy
, Mary Genevieve Browne Florence Marie McGough
Ethel Frances Buchanan Winifred Tressa MeTiernen
Anna Louise Buckley Agnes Mahoney —
Edward Thomas Burke Bernice Eulalia Mahoney
. Francis Joseph Burke Daniel Aloysius Martin
. William Thomas Burns Elsie May Morton
Vera Marcella Cahill Arthur Clark Neville
Joseph Gregory Callahan Alice Emerson Newell
Marguerite Irene Carroll Paul O’Connell
Jessie Harriet Cary Clara Louise O’Connor
. Edward Anthony Cavanaugh James Joseph O’Connor
James Francis Cleary Tsabelle O’Connor |
Rosalind Ernestine Cook John Thomas O’Neill
Elmer Eckert Cornwell John Edward O’Rourke
William Allan Cunningham Edward James O’Shea
Lulu Beatrice Curley Charles Renwick Outterson
. William Henry Dalton Edwin Christie Paul
Morgan Arthur Darby Anna Colmat Payne |
Eileen Louise Delaney Lena Elodie Potvin
Mary Dorothy Dunn Lillian Alma Potvin

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. .

Lewis Herburt Eaton Rachel Margaret Potvin
Lillian Frances Egan Philip Woodward Prouty
Levi Edmund Fay Kathryn Fenton Quigley
Mary Madeline Fitzgerald Murray Joseph Quinn

. William Fergus Foley Mildred Sherwood Rae
Jemima M. Forbes Ellen Gertrude Riley
Fred Henry Franz Mary Dorothy Rubin
Emma Louise Friedrick Robert Henry Russell
Herbert Lincoln Frink Joseph McCarthy Ryan
Harriet Beatrice Fuller Pearl May Scully
Anna Mae Haley Dorothy Julia Senior
Gladys Hall Arthur Eugene Sheldon
George Warren Hallet Burdette Richard Sheldon
Katherine Webster Hamilton Emily St. John
John Patrick Herlihy Katherine Grace Sullivan
Mary Elizabeth Hogan Helen Isabelle Taylor
Lois Annette Horne Myrtle Wata Thompson
Paul Sampson Howes Rachael Elizabeth Thorpe —
Ethel] Janet Houghtaling Ethel May Treworgy
William Henry Humes Raymond Thomas Tucker
Earl Morris Ingham Maurice Michael Walsh
Ruby Imion Ingham Ruth Edna Webb
Anna Gertrude Kane Richard Mather Weiser
Lillian Frances Keating Mary Louise Welch
Muriel Kennedy Hazel Madeline Wheeler
Agnes Salome Kidnay Ruth Marion Wheeler
Frances Elizabeth King Joseph Leonard White
James Joseph Kirkpatrick George Deming Whitmore
Carrie Maria Kjoller Frederick Edward Wilhelm
Ruth Annie Knapp

APPLETON STREET SCHOOL.

Robert Francis Astley William Kane
Reatha Elizabeth K. Bario Mary Ellen Kennedy
Dorothy Margaret Baum John Lambert
Frank Michael Beauregard Joseph Francis Lynch

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Serafina Inez Boggio George Michael McCarthy
George Henry Bork Gertrude McCrohan }
Peter John Bober Margaret McCrean
Roy James Buchanan Gertrude Edna McDonald
Arthur Ralph Brunelle William Joseph. McGrath
Arthur Howard W. Cayhue Louise McElwain

Albert Snow Chicoine Josephine Catherine McKenna
Paul Winthrop Clark Doris Mary Manson
James Joseph Courtney Everett Jay Mills
Alice Ellen Conway Marjory Hespeler Morrow 
Mary Veronica Cronin Gertrude Frances Moré

- Whitman Seward Chapin Jeanette Teresa Moran .
Ethel Eileen Clark John Joseph Moore
Mabel Counter Edith Myrtle Moore
Frank Allan Chaffe Katherine Munson
Melburn Howard Canfield Rena Murray
Leo Alve Cantin Earl Henry Murray
James Francis Curley Mildred Mary Nickerson
Katherine Agatha Donahue Edward James O’Connor
Helen Isabel M. Dunn John Lawrence O’Neill
Nathalie Marie De Vylder Loretta Marie O’Neill
Mae Margaret Donoghue Francis Stephen O’Brien
Caesar Peter Equi Katherine Anne Pasquinucei
Ralph Esmond Fortune Frank Michael Powers
Lauretta Emma Fregeau Iva Beatrice Pearson
Ruth Catherine Fitzsimmons Gertrude Anna Renner
Stella Frodema Gladys Lepha Rogers
Thomas Edward Fitzgerald David Nathan Rubin
Isabella Marion Graham Stuart Allan Russell
Abraham Arthur Glassman Charles Kenneth Ryan |
Gladys Grainger Philip Ifenry Sears
Milton John Green Catherine Gertrude Shea
Fred Blessington Grady  ‘Ralph Wellington Smith ..
Raymond Edwin Goss Frederick Arthur Stevens —
Helen Griffin Marie Beatrice I. Sullivan |
Mary Anna Harre Edward Joseph Sullivan

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Eleanor Heywood Yvonne Marguerite St. Martin
Flora Helen Hunter Wallace Franklin Toole
Gerald Vincent Hartnett Adelaide Blanche Turner
Ralph Dwight Higginbotham Oswald Charles Vachon
Etta May Harper Francis Fitzgerald Vincent
Harold Paul Kelley Rose Mary Walsh
Edward Leo Kidnay Mary Esther Williams
George Herman Kaufman Adolphus Henry Winters
Robert David Kennedy Edward Chapin Whiting
Joseph Francis Kennedy

ELMWOOD SCHOOL.

Helen Elizabeth Allyn Michael Moise
Edwin Walter Bemis Ralph Francis Nevin
Howard Leonard Brooks Francis Daniel Nagle
Stewart Sandy Clark Edward Buckland Newton
Ruth Crowley Florence Bernardene Parish
Mildred Prentiss Curtis Minnie Celia Peterson
Lydia Bond Cowan  Margaret Blanid Prendergast
John Buell Dearden Isabel Marguerite Purves
William Conant Durant Edwin Hope Rayson
Helen Catherine Donlin Florence Jeanette Rae
Pearl Frances Driscoll Agnes Thomson Robertson
Gladys Hanks raleigh Joseph Samuel Satin
John Joseph Fitzgerald Merville Charles Shaw
Reita Adele Henderson William Clyde Stewart
Leon Oscar Harrington John Francis Sullivan
Rudolph Christian Koehler Helen Cecelia Sullivan |
Rose Kaplinsky Anna Shea ,
Maude Elizabeth Keating Lillian Isabell Soderbaum
Richard Herman Lubold Anna Marie Savoy |
Ethel Mae Lubold Una Irene Spamer |
Sophie Hertha Lauckner Walter Ernest Tefs |
Mary Mills McLeod Pearl Pollock Thomson
Michael Joseph McCormick George Herbert Twiss
Elsie Ann Milnes Raymond Williams Lo
George Henry Marx Erna Frieda Wolf ,

(  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. :
HIGHLAND SCHOOL.
Marjorie Marshall Allen William Clinton Lueas
- Elizabeth Veronica Anderson Walter Anthony Lynch
Alexander Moodie Baird James McCarthy
William Leonard Bennett Ella Hunter MceMonegle
Leonard Brown Josephine Barbara Mish
Phoebe Ella Bushnell James Moffatt
Frederick Harold Carey Leonard Morgan
Emily Evelyn Carroll Alice Louise Moriarty
Margaret Elizabeth Crean Irving Thomas Murphy
John Albert Cleary Austin Hudson Newcomb
Edward Patrick Connors Francis John O’Donnell
Edwin John Davis Gertrude Frances O’Grady
Thomas Cameron Delaney Grace O’Leary
Marcia Ford Dibble Ida Celemene Parmelee
William Michael Doyle Romeo Joseph Perrault
Grace Elizabeth Forsythe Esther Myrl Pickup
Arthur Emil Fromhold Wilfred Bell Quintal
George Pierce Geran Gordon Bridge Randall
; George Leo Gilligan George Reardon
Richard John Gillis Hinekley Fosket Root
Milton John Hafey Helena Veronica Ryan
Frank Willis Hardaker Verna Elizabeth Sawin
Elmer Joseph Harrington Esther Barbara Sheaffer
| Helen Elizabeth Hancock Madeline Ruth Sheldon
Mary Theresa Ierlihy Warry Shepro
Howard Patrick Horrigan Frank Thomas Smith
Franeis William Horrigan Arthur Leo Soutiere
George William Houghton William Henry Strain
Beatrice Crane Ilunter Christopher Schaefer
Ralph Howard Jones Evelyn Sullivan
Pearl Margaret Judson Thomas Francis M. Sullivan
Erma Gertrude Karle Raymond Arthur Vershon
Helen Mary Lawrence Charles Aloysius Walsh
Armand Leo Lavoie Lillian Elvira Washington
Earl Frederiek Lederer John Richard Wolohan
Alice Mildred LeDuke

M     a
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE. |
MORGAN SCHOOL.
Herman Carl Abelein Thomas Joseph Joyce
Clara Ida Baker Earl Joseph Keeler
Ella Emily Baker Margaret Esther Kennedy
Margaret Alice Bauerle Minnie Agnes Koehler
Edward Belanger Alfred Krall '
Harry Berman Lena Bertha Krampitz |
Harry Paul Bieber George Herman hanghauser
Albert Frederick BretschneiderHelena Teresa Markert
Albert Paul Brogle Bertha Cecilia Miller
August Frederick Brunn Aquila Germain Mireault
Evelyn Josephine Buckley Cecelia Agnes O’Connor
Edward Adolph Carl Mae Clair Payne
George William Charest Walter Peters |
Mary Louise Christian Pearl Bain Pratt
Rose Ella Coté Herman August Reidel, Jr. }
Ida Dobrovolsky Roy Alovsius Roche  
Albert Dudkewitz Bertha Agnes Rondeau
Thomas Epstein Alice Birdella Rowley
Florence Frances Fisher Helen Amelia Schaudynat |
Charles Herman Foerster Lena Minnie Mary Scheibner
Richard Geissler Lilhan Rosamond G. Schindler
Ilerbert Fred Giehler Ethel Elizabeth Schou
Erna Clara Goetze Henry Schwabe
Bertha Hattie Gogolin Elizabeth Pauline Seidel
George Arthur Graham Emanuel Silverman
Henry Walker Graham Sarah Silverman
Aaron Greene Louis Sherman Spring
William Cornelius Healey Francis George Stephens
Norman Carl Heilman Charles Freeman Trinnell
Arthur Doering Heinritz Lowise Wilhelmina Vester
William Edward Hilbert Elizabeth Wahrmann
Samuel Hertzmark Milda Hattie Weissbach
John James Hopkins Barney Wiener
Marion Helen Hoyt John Gustave Wenzel |
Henry Jarisch, Jr. Veronica Margaret Wynn
Frances Louise Johanson Edgar Herman Zaumseil

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
WEST STREET SCHOOL.
Roy Harold Casey Stephen Joseph Musante
, Ruth Edith Cohn Lillian Constance O’Leary
Cora May Furkey William Albert Reed
Edward Grogan Irene Mabel Robinson
Rene Hebert Harry Irving Samuel
Leo LaBreque Alfred Sharron
Mildred Elizabeth McGrath Jessie Pearl Squier
Rose Frances MeNally Mabel Mary Rose Stacy
Obeline Marengo Margaret Teresa Welch
William Frederick Murray |
WEST HOLYOKE SCHOOL.
Hazel Ida Grandy NoraCecilia Sheehan
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.

Arthur Romeo Riel William Francis Moquin
Henry Escott Alexander Aitkin Ellis
Charles Skolnik John Barr Murray
Myra Celia Gould Beatrice Ellen Sellers |
Frank Vogel

APPLETON STREET EVENING SCHOOL.
James Joseph Ashe William Charles Lanz
Stanley Joseph Bardosky Daniel Francis Lowell
Mary Grace Barclay Elizabeth Margaret MeDonnell
Eva Alexina Brisbois Mary Agatha McMahon
Henry Patrick Cauley Grace MeLaughlin
Marvy Teresa Daley Sadie Madeline Moynahan
William Franeis Donoghue  Irene Catherine Nisil
Mary Ellen Flanagan Alexander John O’Leary
James Peter Freeman Loyvala Eugene Parisean

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Albert Odilon Grandchamp Mary Frances Riley |
Matthew Hanratty Walter Frank Steinbach
Thomas Francis Kane Real Ferdinand Therrien ,
Lauar Marie Lachance Henry Joseph Walsh
MORGAN EVENING SCHOOL. |
Onesine Joseph Bassette Alfred Peter Granger .
Alfred Bertrand Arthur Lamirande |
Agnes Mary Fontaine Louis Mathias Moussette
Victor Joseph Fontaine Velina Georgiana Moussette !
Nathan Fuchs Florence Alice Simard
WEST STREET EVENING SCHOOL. :
Mary Boyle Canfield Loretta Cecelia McLain .
Charles Edward Grise William Patrick MeNerney
Teresa Bernadette Menton Leonidas Parent |
TT |
| LIST OF AUTHORIZED TEXT BOOKS.
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
GRADE I.
Beginner’s Primer
Sunbonnet Babies’ Primer
Wide Awake Primer
Rose Primer
Cyr Primer
Cyr First Reader
Child Life Primer
Child Life First Reader
Aldine Primer

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Aldine First Reader :
Art Literature Primer
Art Literature Book One 
Baker Carpenter Primer
Baker Carpenter First Year Language Reader
Stepping Stones to Literature First Reader
New Education Book One
Baldwin First Year Reader
, Silver-Burdett First Book
Jones Book One
Action, Imitation and Fun Series:
The Little Red Hen )
The Three Pigs
The Three Bears a
Three Little Kittens—Chicken Little
Red Riding Hood—The Seven Kids
Bow-Wow and Mew-Mew
Puss in Boots—Reynard the Fox
Jack the Giant-Killer
Hop o’ My Thumb—Tom Thumb
Jack and the Bean Stalk and Other Tales
) GRADE II.
Cvr Second Reader
Child Life Second Reader |
Stepping Stones to Literature Second Reader
New Education Book Two
Baldwin Second Year Reader
Silver-Burdett Second Book
Jones Book Two |
Baker Carpenter Second Year Language Reader )
Art Literature Book Two
Seudder’s Fables and Folk Stories
Beckwith’s In Mythland, Vol. I. ,
Baldwin's Robinson Crusoe
Dunton Kelly First Book

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Hyde Language Book  Revised
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Two
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book IT
GRADE III.
Williams Choice Literature
New Education Book Three
Baldwin Third Year Reader :
Silver-Burdett Third Year Book
Jones Book Three
Art Literature Book Three
Baker Carpenter Third Year Language Reader
Baldwin’s Old Greek Stories
Longfellow’s Selections
Andrews’ Seven Little Sisters
Pratt’s Stories of Colonial Children
Wilson’s History Reader for Elementary Schools
Dunton Kelly First Book
Hyde Language Book  Revised
. Steps in English Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Three |
Fairbanks Geography
Tarr-MceMurry Part One
Prang's Text Books of Art Education Book III
American Music Reader I
GRADE IV.
Williams Choice Literature
New Education Book Four
Baldwin Fourth Year Reader
Jones Book Four
Baker Carpenter Fourth Year Language Reader
Whittier’s Selections
Longfellow’s Selections
Eggleston’s Stories of Great Americans

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Andrews’ Each and All

Hawthorne’s Daffy-Down-Dilly

Legends of the Red Children

Frye’s Brooks and Brook Basins

Long’s Ways of Wood Folk

Tappan’s American Hero Stories

Reed Word Lessons

Dunton Kelly First Book

Steps in English Book One

Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Four

Tarr-MeMurry Part One

Morton’s Elementary Geography

Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book IV

American Music Reader II

Webster’s Common School Dictionary |
GRADE V.

Williams Choice Literature

New Edueation Book Five

Baldwin Fifth Year Reader

Jones Book Five

Baker Carpenter Fifth Year Language Reader

IIawthorne’s Wonder Book

Lonefellow’s Hiawatha

Eggleston's First Book in American History

Builders of Our Country Book One

Carpenter’s North America

Carpenter's South America

Long’s Wilderness Ways

(iood Health, Guelick Series

Reed Word Lessons

Dunton Kelly Language Lessons

Steps in English Book One

Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Five

Tarr-MeMurry Part Two

Morton’s Elementary Geography

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book V
American Music Reader II
Webster’s Common School Dictionary

GRADE VI.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Sixth Year Reader
Jones Book Six
Baker Carpenter Sixth Year Language Reader
Burrough’s Birds and Bees and Sharp Eyes
IIlawthorne’s Tanglewood Tales
Longfellow’s Miles Standish
Francillon’s Gods and Heroes
Long’s Secrets of the Wood
Builders of Our Country Book Two :
Gordy’s American Leaders and Heroes
Carpenter’s Europe
Carpenter’s Asia
Carpenter’s Africa
Carpenter’s Australia, Our Colonies, and Other Islands of the
Sea
Emergencies, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons  
Dunton Kelly Language Lessons
Steps in English Book Two
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Six
Tarr-MeMurry Part Three
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VI
American Music Reader ITI
Webster’s Common School Dictionary |
GRADE VII. ,

Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Seventh Year Reader

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Jones Book Seven
Irving’s Sketch Book
Lamb’s Tales of Shakespeare
Franklin’s Autobiography
Holmes’ Selections
Whittier’s Snow-bound
Kingsley’s Greek Heroes
Long’s Wood Folk at School
Town and City, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons |
Dunton Kelly Grammar
The Mother Tongue Book One |
Steps in English Book Two :
Milne’s Progressive Arithmetic Second Book
Morton’s Advanced Geography ,
Tarr-MeMurry Part Four
Barnes’ Brief History of the United States
Montgomery’s United States History
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VII.
American Music Reader IIT |
Webster’s Common School Dictionary ,
GRADE VIII.
Williams Choice Literature
. Baldwin Eighth Year Reader
Jones Book Eight
Hawthorne’s Legends of New England
Hawthorne’s Tales of the White Hills
Longfellow’s Evangeline.
Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal
Guerber’s Story of the Greeks
Higginson Channing English History for Beginners
The Body at Work, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly Grammar .

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
The Mother Tongue Book Two
Buehler’s Modern English Grammar
Steps in English Book Two
Milne’s Progressive Arithmetic Third Book
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Tarr-McMurry Part Five
Barnes’ Brief History of the United States
Montgomery’s United States History
Higginson’s United States History  copies)
Scudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)
American Music Reader IV
Natural Advanced Music Reader
Webster’s Common School Dictionary

GRADE IX.

Williams’ Choice Literature
Scott’s Ivanhoe
Scott’s Lady of the Lake
Longfellow’s Tales of Wayside Inn
Bryant’s Selections
Guerber’s Story of the Romans
Julius Caesar
Merchant of Venice
Control of Body and Mind, Guelick Series
The Mother Tongue Book Two
Buehler’s Modern English Grammar
Lewis’ First Manual of Composition  copies)
Steps in English Book Two
Bradbury’s Eaton’s Practical Arithmetic
Wentworth’s Elementary Algebra
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Barnes’ Brief History of the United States

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
Montgomery’s United States History
Higgimson’s United States History  copies)
Seudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)
American Music Reader IV
Natural Advanced Musie Reader
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
BOOKS FOR TEACHER’S DESK.
Perry’s Bible Manual
Ireland’s Story, Johnson
Smith’s Physiology
Blaisdell’s Physiology
Dunglison’s Physiology
BOOKS NOT ASSIGNED TO GRADES.
O’Brien’s English for Foreigners ;
Union Series Physiology, Books One, Two and Three
Adams’ Elementary Geography
Miller Spaulding Series of Spellers
HIGH SCHOOL:
ENGLISH. )
Author Title
Addison Sir Roger de Coverly Papers
Arnold Sohrab and Rustum
Brooke English Literature Primer
Bryant Selections
Burke Essay on Conciliation with the |
American Colonies

Burke Essay on American Taxation

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Burns Poems
Byron Selections (Arnold)
Carlyle Essay on Burns
Chaucer Prologue and Knight’s Tale
Coleridge The Ancient Mariner
Cooper The Last of the Mohicans
DeQuincey Flight of Tartar Tribe
Dickens Tale of Two Cities
Dowden Life of Shakespeare (Primer)
Dryden Alexander’s Feast
Dryden Palamon and Arcite
Eliot Silas Marner
Emerson Fortune of the Republic
Emerson Essay on Culture, Books, ete.
Gayley Classic Myths
Genung Outlines of Rhetoric
Genung Practical Rhetoric
Genung Rhetorical Analysis
Goldsmith Deserted Village and The

Traveler
Goldsmith Vicar of Wakefield
Gray Poems (Selections)
Guerber Myths of Gre and Rome
Guerber  Myths of Northern Lands :
Hawthorne IIouse of the Seven Gables
Hawthorne Legends of New England
Hawthorne Twiee Told Tales
Hawthorne The Wonder-Book
Hitchcock Enlarged Practice Book in
English Composition

Holmes Selections
Irving Sketch Book (Six Selections):
Irving The Alhambra
Irving Life of Goldsmith
Irving Tales of Traveler
Lincoln Gettysburg Sph

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Longfellow Evangeline

Lowell Vision of Sir Launfal
Macaulay Essay on the Earl of Chatham
Macaulay Essay on Johnson

Macaulay Essay on Milton and Addison
Milton Lyrics

Milton Paradise Lost (Books and IT)
Pancoast Introduction to English Litera| ture

Plutarch Lives (Selections)

Pope Rape of the Lock

Pope Translation of the Iliad
Richardson American Literature (Primer)
Scott Ivanhoe

Scott Lady of the Lake

Scott Lay of the Last Minstrel
Scott Marmion

Shakespeare As You Like It

Shakespeare Hamlet

Shakespeare Julius Caesar

Shakespeare King John

Shakespeare Macbeth (Gateway and Rolfe

Editions) ,

Shakespeare Merchant of Venice
Shakespeare Midsummer Night’s Dream
Shakespeare Twelfth Night

Shakespeare Sonnets

Shakespeare Antony and Cleopatra
Shakespeare Henry V.

Shakespeare Henry VIII.

Shakespeare King Lear

Shakespeare Much Ado About Nothing
Shakespeare Othello

Shakespeare Romeo and Juliet
Shakespeare The Tempest

Shakespeare Two Noble Kinsmen

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
Shakespeare Winter’s Tale
Southey Life of Nelson
Spenser Faerie Queen I.
Spenser Faerie Queen IT.
Tennyson Poems
Thoreau Succession of The Forest Trees
Warner Hunting of the Deer 
Webster First Bunker Hill Oration |
Wordsworth Poems (Arnold Selections)

FRENCH.
Daudet Tartarin de Tarascon .
Dumas La Tulipe Noire
Francois Advanced French Prose Composition
Francois and Giroud Simple French
Fraser and Squair Grammar Elementary and
Complete
Halévy  L’Abbé Constantin
Labiche Martin La Poudre aux Yeux
Labiche Martin Le Voyage de M. Perrichon
La Fontaine Fables
Lamartine Jeanne d’Are
Larousse Grammaire Franeaise
| Loti Pécheur d’Islande
Mérimée Colomba
*Moliére Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme
Pailleron Le Monde ou l’on S’Ennuie
Sandeau Mile. de la Seigliére
Sarcey Le Siége Paris
Super French Reader
GERMAN. 

Baumbach Die Nonna
Freytag Soll und Hahen

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.

Freytag Die Journalisten

Goethe Dichtung und Wahrheit

Goethe Hermann und Dorothea

‘(Guerber Marechen und Erzahlungen,

Parts I-II

Heath German Dictionary

Heine Die Harzreise

Jagemann Syntax

J oynes-Meissner German Grammar

Kayser and Monteser Brief German Course
Lessing Minna von Barnhelm

Pope German Composition

Riehl Der Fluch der Schonheit

Schiller Wilhelm Tell

Storm Immensee

Wildenbruch Das Edle Blut |

SUPPLEMENTARY GERMAN.

Baumbach Der Schwiegersohn

Tlauff Das kalte Herz

Hevse L’Arrabbiata

Von Hillern Hoher als die Kirche

LATIN AND GREEK.

Allen and Greenough Virgil

Allen and Greenough Cicero

Allen and Greenough Caesar

Allen and Greenough Ovid

Allen and Greenough Latin Grammar

Allen and Greenough New Latin Grammar

Barss Cornelius Nepos

Barss Writing Latin, Book: One, Revised Edition
Collar and Daniell Greek Composition
D’Ooge Viri Romae

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  

Goodwin Greek Grammar

Goodwin and White Xenophon's Anabasis

Hale First Year Latin

Herberman Sallust’s Cataline

Jones Latin Composition

Keep Use of Moods and Tenses

Moulton Latin Composition

Seymour Homer’s Odyssey

White First Greek Book

HISTORY.

Ashley American Government

Channing History of the United States

Cheney Short History of England

Johnson Ireland’s Story

McLaughlin History of the American Nation

Myers Ancient History

Walker Essentials in English History,
Revised

West Ancient History

Wolfson Essentials of Ancient History

MATHEMATICS.

Hall and Knight School and College Algebra

Hedrick Algebra

Sanders Elements of Plane and Solid
Geometry

Wentworth Elementary Alvebra

Wentworth  Revised Plane Geometry

Wentworth Revised Plane and Solid Geometry

Wentworth Second Revision Plane and

| Spherical Trigonometry

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
SCIENCE.

Clark and Dennis Elementary Chemistry
Clark and Dennis Laboratory Manual for Above
Carhart and Chute High School Physics
Coulter Plants
Fairbanks Physiography
) COMMERCIAL.
Gannett, Garrison Houston Commercial Geography |
Gano Commercial Law
Harper Your Own Typewriter Instructor
Moore New Commercial Arithmetic
Isaac Pitman Short Course in Stenography
Power and Lyons Typewriter Instructor
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Banking

DOMESTIC SCIENCE.

Norton Food and Dietetics |
Williams and Fisher Elements of the Theory of

Cooking

ELOCUTION. ,
Emerson Evolution of Expression
e |

REPORT OF
TRUANT OFFICERS
To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN: herewith submit to your Honorable
Board this, the thirty-sixth annual report of the truant officers
for the school year ending June  th,  together with the
report of the school census that was taken during the months
of September, October and November, being completed November  th, as prescribed by the statute.

The Committee on Attendance, Census and Truancy appointed Thomas H. Finn, Michael J. Kerin and Eugene Lynch
as substitute and assistant truant officers, Mr. Finn to take the
place of Mr. Cadieux, who was granted four months’ leave
of absence. Mr. Kerin was assigned to Mr. Gallagher’s district, doing the school work, while Mr. Gallagher and Mr.
Lynch were taking the school census. Mr. Finn did excellent
work in looking up the absentees, taking hold of the work in a
manner satisfactory to the principals and teachers.

As will be seen by the following tables, the school census
fell little short of the census of  The following tables
show the school census by districts, between the ages of five
and fifteen, September Ist,  September Ist,  and
May  st,  the gain or loss in each district in each of these
years; also the number attending the public, private and
parochial schools, the number at work, and the number neither
at work nor at school, ete.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
. ,
SCHOOL CENSUS BY DISTRICTS.
Districts,   ota
| —
  ......... ][ )  ...)  ...   |  
Gain over   
WHERE THESE CHILDREN ARE TO BE FOUND.
Net
  Gain Loss Loss
Number attending Public Schools................]  |.....]  ]..... “* St. Jerome School..............] /.....  }....* “* Precious Blood School..........] ].....  lj.. 
‘* “* Sacred Heart School........-...]  }.....  l]...-“ “* Perpetual Help School..........) ]..... TO]. .ee“ Holy Rosary School.............]   Pe
‘ Immaculate Conception School..|  TO ].....  |.....* Mater Dolorosa School..........]  ps) ees
. Mt. St. Vincent............    Pe
i Holy Family Institute...........]  +) es
“* Private Kindergarten............  }..... dl ..oe other Private Schools........... DePe
“ at work in mills, shops, and stores...,....] ].....  ]..--.
“ neither at work nor at school............{ ].....[.--- 
‘ minding house or housework. ........ ]...  |..--“ deaf and dumb........     cence ees Glew...  ]...-. blind oece  eet   eens Hl  . i) ees
“ sick or otherwise affected............. rs
Tal esos c cen oeseesesseftonra  
     

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
The following table shows the number of children between the ages of five and fifteen neither at work nor at
school to be three hundred and twenty-three, one hundred and
eleven more than in  Two hundred and twenty-eight of
these are under the school age (seven years) and are not
obliged to attend school, fifty-eight are over fourteen years,
the compulsory school age, five are deaf and dumb, and five
are blind, leaving twenty-seven children who are not attend- .
ing any school on account of sickness or some mental trouble.
fale lele  elele.
'eoienf}fwxaljelt|]S;/ZIaIS |a}se
fe sfe fala); sla} aAl Atala
Districts. Fi 
(  |s  ge es )/ Fle Liagls
sl els!lsleg|s ts] e]t  
Se'ielea!iantialm lea. Ss Sink
         
Total |  
Districts   oi
Mills, shops, sores.   
Minding house......   
|| || || —| || —
Total for  ......   
Total for  ...... |  

|
|
|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
|
ABSENTEES REPORTED.
alo Silo cs le ,
iS /F/E/FZ/E/  ,
re  ms  er [le &

Schools. . sig z
elele|ele}elelelelgie
AlolzlalsSliaelisziaez lei

North Chestnut Street....|   
Appleton Street..........  
Elm Street..............]  qT  
South Chestnut Street....|  
Nonotuck Street.........  
Highland ..........-  
Kirtland ........ ece   
Park Street............--|  J]|  
Hamilton Street.........]  
Sargeant Street ........{  
Morgan ..............--|   
Springdale ............-. 
Elmwood .......-c  
West Street...........--|  
St. Jerome..............|  
Precious Blood..........|   
Sacred Heart............  
Perpetual Help..........{ ], 
Holy Rosary............ 
Immaculate Conception...]|  
Mater J)olorosa..........   
ee et dt et tt
Total    ree sa| us|  ss] to sos
a n,m, ae |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.  
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
z j;eg(tilegiezl[eleEle ;eie
S/S R/S  )/F Fels
Schools.  - -/| fs
Bie] ezlgg,eél]seiasl:r &@] a]
lA'Ee tz,  lelelai. 
North Chestnut Street...|  
Appleton Street..........  S|  
Elm Street........... ..]|  
South Chestnut Street....]   
Nonotuck Street.........  
Highland ...........  
Kirtland ....  ...ee  
Park Street.......... .- 
Hamilton Street.........   
Sargeant Street.......... 
Morgan csc   cease  
Springdale ......+. 
Elmwood .....-. cec eens  
West Street.............   
St. Jerome..............  
Precious Blood.......... ) 
Sacred Heart............  \|  
Perpetual Help..........]  
Holy Rosary............./   
Immaculate Conception...| 
Mater Dolorosa.......... 
Te   sg  an ns] as sz si  
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
 #f/eltele:'se ;,€I/e
( EB, F/B} a};/e  Fl SE}; R]on  Lan! i]
Schools. bd vu  
EB gizig elol|eie El ei
| Lb Ss —, tey  o“, —,
North Chestnut Street...   
Appleton Street.......... 
Eim Street...........  
South Chestnut Street....  
Nonotuck Street.........  
Highland ....-..........
Kirtland ...... -e 
Park Street......... ..... 
Hamilton Street.........   
Sargeant Street...,......  
Morgan coe  epee ees  
Springdale ........ ot]  
Elmwood .....-e cc      
West Street.............   
St. Jerome........... BS  
Precious Blood.......... of)  ls]  
Sacred Heart............ 
Perpetual Help.......... o
Holy Rosary.............  
Immaculate Conception...  
Mater Dolorosa..........  
Total vo  s sy ia 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
: hh be be
slefs! fs gte/E 
satus Fe FO eS.
ESR, Same SF Sm VV Sm be  VS
Schools. So §$ FA, BA Eee ECR
is uF Bu SG Sue See) Fer
RSE Sse ese tse, gg ef Us [OS
OAR AE AR AE Og 
| |
No. Chestnut Street....  
Appleton Street........  
Elm Street............  
So. Chestnut Street....  
Nonotuck Street.......  
Highland .............
Kirtland ..............  
Park Strect...........  
Hamilton Street........  
Sargeant Street........  
Morgan ........... S|  
Springdale ............  
Elmwood .............  
West Street........... 
St. Jerome.............  
Precious Blood.........  
Sacred Heart..........  
Perpetual Help.........  
Holy Rosary........... |
Immaculate Conception.  
Mater Dolorosa........ -§  
ee FO
otal...  
RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE STREETS.
  AE. et al  
No Chestnut Street :
Highlan ..
Mater Dolorosa  
St Jerome......  
Sargeant Stree?  
West  Street..  
Holy Rosary  
Perpetual Hi  |
Tota tL)  eo)  )-ath oe

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE,  
TABLE OF AGGREGATES.
 i: sle'  
IS SIKIE LS R'E ae
; og iS
  s|f  E
LA So wzlea 
| |] tt tet tt
| |
Absentees reported..........    sar al as /a s/  
Parents or guardians notified......{[   
Absent without permission.........]  
Returned to school..............+-|  
Summonses served...............--] I] 
Prohated .ec c TL  
Discharged co.cc          
Committed to the Training School..}| 
During the school year twelve summonses were served
for truants to appear in court. Seven truants were committed to the Training School, ten were probated and their cases
continued from time to time, eight of these being later discharged. Six boys were paroled from the Training School
on the recommendation of the superintendent, they having
received the required number of merits for efficiency in
studies and for good behavior. One had his parole revoked
by order of the County Commissioners, but the rest of the
boys are attending school regularly. We have at the present
time nine boys at the Training School, two of whom will be
paroled in February.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
CHILDREN EXAMINED FOR WORK CERTIFICATES.
From September to September .
| Certificates Granted. Certificates Refused.
Ages Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total
 to   to   to   to  
Total| .]   

There were also issued three hundred and twenty-two
minor employment certificates to children between the ages
of sixteen and eighteen who could read and write in the
English language.

On the second day of August,  your Committee, acting under the provisions of Section  Chapter  of the
Acts of  relating to the licensing of minors under fourteen years of age to sell newspapers, ete., adopted rules and
regulations for the sale of newspapers to minors under the
age of fourteen. From August  th,  the date we began
to issue these licenses, to January Ist,  three hundred
and one licenses were issued to boys to sell newspapers. We
do not issue licenses to girls.

, Respectfully submitted,
T. W. DOYLE,
Chief.

REPORT OF THE
Gas and Electric Department
City or HoLyoKkeE, Mass.
OFFICE OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
December .
lo the Honorable, the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN :—I hand you herewith the eighth annual
report of the Gas and Electric Department.

There has been but little done at the gas works outside
of the ordinary demands of the business. The ordinary rePairs and additions required by the growth of the business
have been made. One of the changes and additions that have
been made to the plant is the tearing out of the old set of purifiers and converting the room they were in into revivifying room for the purifying material. Another was the installation of two new H. P. boilers to take the place of
the two old small and nearly worn out ones. It was found
best early last spring to manufacture larger proportion of
water gag than had been the custom previously, because of
the economy in so doing. The make of coal gas was cut down
to the point where it would furnish only coke enough for the
needs of the water gas making. This consequently stopped
the Department’s selling coke, which of course cut into its
revenue; but the attending economies more than made up the
loss in the plant’s net income. The output of gas for the
year has increased cubic feet or per cent.
There have been added meters to those already set. The
gas mains have been extended fect, and there have been
run gas services. The Department has given  
gallons of tar to the Board of Public Works for use upon the

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT. ,
city’s roads. This was done to induce the Board to give it
a thorough try-out; and apparently the experiment proved
that both coal and water gas tar can be so used satisfactorily. |
. At the electric station, the additions authorized early in ,
the year are about completed. They consisted of putting in
four H. P. boilers, Kilowatt turbo-generator, to- ,
gether with the necessary pumps, condensers, ete. These additions to the equipment already installed give steam
power capacity to the station of about horse power. |
The output of electricity continues to increase, there having |
been Kilowatts more sent out than in  This '
is an increase of per cent. The increase in the num- |
ber of customers has been per cent, while the increase
in the number of meters set has been per cent. There
have been miles of wire added to the street mains and
  new poles. The business has been sufficiently profitable :
to warrant reducing the price of the street are lights from
$  per year to commencing with the beginning of |
the new fiscal year and reducing the street incandescents proportionately. t
{
!
- ‘he following tables present data from the records of the '
gas works: |
Gas distributed, cubic feet, oo.) |
Coal carbonized, tons, ..  
Gas oil used, gallons, .. .)  
Coke made, bushels, .)  
Coke used in retort house, bushels, we  
Coke used in water gas generators, bushels,  
Coke sold, bushels, Be ek  
Tar made, gallons, nn  
Tar sold, gallons, rn ;
Tar given to city for highways, gallons, ..  

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
GAS MAINS.
Laid in Total laid
  inch feet
my, ‘* feet ‘
Wy,  ‘‘
  ““ ‘S ‘
Wy, ‘'
 ‘‘ ‘‘
 ‘* ‘‘  ‘*
  ‘‘
 ‘
 ‘‘
  ‘‘ '
Making total of miles laid.
GAS SERVICES RUN.
 inch, Ceee inch we ee
  imeh,   ee
,  d

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
GAS METERS.
  light meters set December  ....... ......  
a    eens  eo ‘*    ences  ceo Once ees  sees  OO   cence  
: SS ce“ ‘* FO eens  
a  CSS cess re BF cc    ces OF   een    SS ces  ance  ees   Occ ence nes |
  co CO cc   SS ‘ee  Oe   ees |

 re **     ees  
Regular meters set December   
Prepay meters set December   

Gain in meters set or per cent.

PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
Superintendent, hele
Inspectors, ee
Clerk, |
Meter and complaint men,  .) .etsesti(ae;:C
Foremen at works,  . §
Foremen on street work, .  
Stokers,  ...  
Water gas makers, .  
Water gas helpers, . hh  
Firemen, a
Street men,  ae a
 

Net price of gas  per thousand feet.

q
GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
The following tables present data from the records of
the electric station:
Current sent out, Kilowatts, ,  ,
Total number of customers, ..  
Power customers, Bee |
Miles of wire, .)  
Number of poles, ... |
Transformers in use, ... .
Meters set, wee  
Commercial are lamps,:
Street arelamps, ...  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps,  C.P., .. :
Street incandescent lamps, C. P., |
Steam coal used, tons, ... |
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES. .
Superintendent, rr .
Clerk, |
Foreman, er }
Engineers, a: :
Oilers, ... hehehe 
Firemen,,
Switchboard men, ra
Trimmers, |
Lineand repair men,. .. .. 
Laborers, BeeS ,
Machinists, .  |
  |
Net price of electricity for lighting, six cents per K. W. |

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the department:
WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOV. .
EXPENSES.
Coal, wee   
Oi, . 
Supplies, Oo |
Repairs, oe ew ele)  
| Water Power Rental,  
Payroll, oe lel ele  
Office Expenses,  
Insurance,  
Miscellaneous,  
——— 
Bad debts, fers  
Interest, we lel ele  
Depreciation,  eel $ 
Profit and loss;  
$ 
) INCOME.
Gas and electricity,   
Coke and tar,   a
———— 
NOTE.
Net income,:  
Bond payments,  oe ele  
Balance of income,  

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
BALANCE SHEET NOV. .
ASSETS.
Plants Nov.  ,
 . 
Additions and extensions, ..  
$ 
Less bond premiums received,  
$ 
Less depreciation,  
—————— 
Supplies,  
Coke and tar,  
Book accounts,  
:  
- ————— 
LIABILITIES.
City of Holyoke,
cash invested in
plants to date,  ,
Accounts payable,  
————— 
Depreciation, ..  
Profit and loss,  
—————. 

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
GAS WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOV.  ,
 .
EXPENSES. |
Coal,ee 
Oil, oe  )  
Supplie, +. 
Repairs, . Water Power Rental, .-  
| Payroll, .- 
Office Expenses, oe 
Insurance,   
Miseellaneous, 
$ 
Bad debts,. .- 
Interest,  
Depreciation,   |
—  
. 
$ 
Profit and loss, 
TT
, 
| INCOME.
Gas,
Coke andtar, .- +» -- 
$ 
NOTE.
Net income,   
Bond payments, +» 
Balance of income, yee 
|

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
ELECTRIC WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOV.
  .
EXPENSES.

Coal  ...) he 
Oiland waste,. ...  
- Supplies, wl  
Repairs,   
Water Power rental,  
Payroll,   
Office expenses, re  
Insurance, ..  
Miscellaneous,  

———— 
Bad debts, Cee 
Interest,   
Depreciation,  

——-—  

$ 

Profit and loss, toe 

$ 

INCOME.
Electricity, re 
| NOTE.

Net income,  
Bond payments, . 
Balance of Income, .. 

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
BALANCE SHEET NOV. .
ASSETS.
Gas Works, Cost
Nov. 
Additions and extensions, ...  
—————  
Less bond premiums received,  
$ 
Less depreciation,  
———— 
Supplies,  
Coke and tar,  
Book accounts,  
—  
—— )
Electric Plant, vost
Nov. 
Additions and extensions, ..  
$ 
Less bond premiums received,  
$ 
Less depreciation,  
—————. 
Supplies, 
Book aceounts, —.  
————.  
$ 
oe
$ 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
LIABILITIES.
City of Holyoke,
cash invested in
plants to date, 
Accounts payable,  
——— 
Depreciation,  
Profit and loss,  
—————— 
| Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. SNOW, Manager.
Examined and Approved,
December .
WALTER W. EATON,
| Public Accountant.

Board of Playground Commissioners
CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASSACHUSETTS
CHAIRMAN.

William J. Howes.................. -+ -+. year term

| SECRETARY.

Mrs. James A. Allen........................ year term
Louis A. LaFrance....................+.+... year term
Frank B. Towne.....................++.++-+ year term
Mrs. William G. Dwight..................... year term
Edward T. MeHugh......................... year term
Archibald Brooks ........................... year term
Mary E. Hussey............................ year term
Moritz Ruther ......................+- ..+.. year term

REPORT OF THE
Playground Commissioners
The Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City

of Holyoke, Massachusetts :—

GENTLEMEN: We have the honor to submit to you this,
our first annual report, as Board of Playground Commissioners. We have just closed most eventful year in the
playground movement in the City of Holyoke. The efforts
of all our enthusiastic workers have been erystalized into a
fact, and our city stands on record today as leader. Before the framing of any state law, your Honorable Board
passed playground ordinance, appointed playground commission, made general playground appropriation.

Within our city limits, we have an area of approximately
three square miles between the western hills and the river,
Which practically bounds the city upon three sides. In this
area there are over inhabitants. One square mile
is occupied by system of canals and manufacturing plants,
leaving the actual area for habitation practically two square
miles, or over inhabitants per square mile.

With the three great athletic fields which are being de. veloped by the Park Commissioners, with the available school
grounds, and with the three large tracts of land recently purchased in our thickly settled districts, we are now prepared,
as  probably no other city in Massachusetts, perhaps in the
country, to meet present and future needs. However, there
I$ one section in our city within the boundary of Wards and
 in which, although there are five schools without vards,
there are no recreation centers, nor is there any possibility of

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

one unless some areas are opened up by the removal of buildings. It is strongly urged that this section of the city be provided with open, sunny spaces for play.

On account of limited funds and inadequate facilities, ;
our season of supervised play was limited to July and August.
The close of the term brought with it universal regret, and
left the city endowed with fine new sense of discipline and
of fellowship, which is enriching the life of the schools. The
playgrounds are still in constant use, but not to the extent they
would be were they more fully equipped, or that they were,
when director was in charge. .

OUR AIM.

It is the aim of our Commission to conduct the work assigned to us in such manner that the child shall be led from
joyous play into an equal joyful sense of the dignity of labor.
We aspire to turn the aimless energy of the child into
the definite purpose of healthful play and interesting work.
We long to give to the children, within sight and call of their
parents, clean, sunny spaces instead of alleys and sunless
tenement courts. We desire to develop all the sweetness and
gvoodness of the childish spirit, so that storekeepers, property
owners, public servants—all shall be proud of the little citizens of Holyoke.

CONDITIONS.

This Commission was appointed March organized
March The emergency appropriation of 
was inereased to making total of It
will be noted in the ordinance under which the work of the
past year is being conducted that there has been dual control of the plavgrounds. The work of development and maintenance, as well as the financial responsibility, has been vested
in the Board of Public Works; the administration and supervision has been in the hands of the Playground Commission.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
During this period of beginnings such division has greatly
facilitated the carrying out of the work in prompt and efficient manner. The two boards have been one in aim, and the
unfailing courtesy of the Board of Public Works has been
extended to us at all times.

In the Inspector of Public Buildines and Grounds, who .
is also designated as Superintendent of the Public Playgrounds, we have found man of exceptional merit and abil- '
ity, who, inspired with true love for his work and ever resourceful with the amount of money at command, has accomplished more in given time than would seem possible. Pre- :
liminary work had been started under his direction before the
Commission was organized. It was decided that for the first
year attention be wholly confined to the development of the |
West Street and the Hampden Street grounds, with such necessary Improvements on the Maple Street plot as would adapt
it for playground work without fencing, shelters or equipment.

Truly, from ash heaps and dumps our superintendent made
fair level spaces on which the season’s play found  itself
wholly at home.
RECREATION CENTERS. :

Adjoining the east side of the West Street school is a
plot of land feet in size, bounded on the other three
sides by streets. This ground had rough embankment near ‘
the school and was of uneven surface, sloping toward the east.

As first step in development it was graded; then cinder ;
walks were laid around it, grassy border was marked out, |
and to keep up with the fast approaching spring, maple trees .
were planted along the street line, and then boxed. Before the
grading was begun, valuable asset was found in the great
amount of loam covering the surface. This loam was removed
and piled to one side; then after the grading was finished, it
was deposited along the tree belts and embankments with Just }
enough on the playfield proper to bind the cinder material into
a compact mass. As fast as the ground was developed appar  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
atus was supplied; sand boxes, hammock swings for the babies,
and rope swings for the older children.

In grading the embankment near the school, two terraces
were formed; the upper one, about thirty feet wide, is to be
used in connection with the school, and as place of assembly

| for the playgrounds. On the next terrace, about six feet

lower, one hundred and twenty feet wide, is placed the equipment for swings, with space for future apparatus, on each side

of wading pool, feet, constantly supplied with running

water. In the winter this whole lower terrace, feet,

will be flooded for skating rink. The approach to this terrace from the one above is by set of conerete steps at each

side of the wading pool. About five feet below the second terrace  the large athletic field, equipped, at the upper corners,

with sand courts, and at the lower end with baseball field

and backstop. Both terraees have been grassed over and

planted with shrubbery, the lower terrace, with its long. gradual slope, to be available as grandstand. In addition to

these outdoor advantages, the basement of the West Street
school makes very convenient playground shelter.

The Hampden Street ground, feet, occupies a
plot of land bordering on Hampden street, with an entrance
from Oak street. bounded on the east and west by alleys, and
extending through to the rear of the dwellings on Dwight
street. This plot needed large amount of grading before it
was adapted in any way for playground purposes. From two
to four feet of filling was put on, after the same eareful and
economical manner of the West Street filling. Trees were
planted along the edge. grass plot formed, and space prepared for future wading pool, feet, along the east
side of the plot. This future wading pool will be used this
winter for skating rink. The field was equipped with a
basketball field, and baseball ground; and on the west side
With swings, see-saws, slide and sand boxes. On the opposite side of JTampden street small office building, rented

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
from the Holyoke Water Power Company, made fairly acceptable shelter.

The Maple Street ground, occupying whole square,
  feet. with ground sloping to the east, is bounded by
Maple and Chestnut, Cabot and Hampshire streets. Owing to
the lack of funds, and to the possible future use of the land as
a site for great grammar school building, little was done except to smooth off the unevenness, lay out baseball ground
with backstop, and put sand courts, benches and swings under the trees bordering Chestnut street, the only available
shade. Through the courtesy of Mr. Wileox, of the Publie Li-  .
brary, the basement of that building was opened for the  ndustrial work.

These three playgrounds were the only ones maintamed
entirely by the Playground Commission. “The fourth one,
Riverside Park, came to us in co-operation with the Board of
Park Commissioners, who granted us space for supervised )
play. The only piece of apparatus installed there was set
of parallel bars, the gift of Mrs. George C. Guill, of this city.
However, upon this ideally beautiful ground there were already wading pool, running track, baseball field, tennis 
and ericket grounds: and nature had provided fair green
under the shade of the old trees above the river.

As must readily be understood. large part of our appropriation, in spite of great economy and skilful management, .
was expended in the development of the three grounds first
mentioned.

FENCING AND SHELTERS.

Our last year’s experience fortifies us in our realization
of two vital needs for the coming vear. No ground can bea,
suecess until it is enclosed, preferably with plain, substantial
iron fence, six feet high. The safety and proper discipline
of the children, as well as the protection of apparatus, trees
and grounds demand some such enclosure. Equally as vital

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS,

is the necessity for shelters, and proper sanitaries. Fortunately, during the past season there was only one afternoon
when the weather interfered, but it may not be so another
summer. In these shelters, in addition to the sanitaries, place
should be provided for industrial work, for story-telling and
folk-daneing, as well as room for rest, or the ‘‘quiet hour’’;
and there should also be storage for all movable apparatus.

On the Hampden Street grounds, when the wading pool
is opened next vear, dressing room for each sex will be a
necessity. :

SUPERVISION.

The next problem to solve was supervision. The Comnussion found that Iolvoke, in common with other cities, was
unable to furnish trained director, and, indeed, but few
who were experienced in any way in playground work. Fortunately we were able to obtain as director, Miss Ellen LeGarde, |
supervisor of physical culture and hygiene in the public
schools of Providence, R. I., who brought with her the Misses
Theresa and Luey MeKenna, both finished play-leaders.
Moreover, we were also fortunate enough to find here in this
eity Henry Rittmever, professor at the Bridge Street Turn
Verein, and Miss Paula Hofer, daughter of leader among

| playground workers in Germany. With this nucleus of skilled
directors, and the hope of many volunteer teachers, we opened,
on May oth,  Hampden Street, West Street and Maple
Street playgrounds, with the following distribution of direetors: General supervisor, Miss Ellen LeGarde; Miss Theresa
McKenna, West Street grounds; Miss Luey MeKenna, Hampden Street grounds: Miss Paula Hofer, Maple Street grounds.
Later, when Riverside Park was so generously allowed us, Mr.
. Ifenry Rittmeyer was put in charge there. Notices of the
opening of the playgrounds had been posted in the congested
neighborhoods, and the press had proclaimed the good news.
West Street and Maple street began with good attendance.
ITampden Street. without equipment and without shade, was

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
not so promising. However, very few days made it evident
that the personality of the director almost created the playground, for the attendance increased daily. Larger and larger
grew the numbers at all the other centers, as well, in spite of
the fact that many of the children were unacquainted with
childish games. Alley ways and tenement courts encourage
none of the immortal sports of childhood, but the little ones
soon came into their own.

EQUIPMENT.

The fitting of the grounds with apparatus was gradual,
from sand boxes on to see-saws, hammock swings, swings,
slides, baseball and basketball fields, and, most desired of all
equipment, on West Street wading pool. Indeed, our experience has convinced us that very small, carefully chosen
equipment is all that is necessary; it is the personality of the
director, the games, the stories and the industrial work that
draw the children.

CARE AND CUSTODY.

Our Superintendent, under the authority vested in him
by the ordinance, has employed all keepers and laborers. During the summer, one keeper was always in attendance upon
each of the grounds. The services of these keepers were dispensed with at the end of the season, subject to reeall upon
special occasion.

ACTIVITIES.

Our summer activities opened on July Sth for session
of eight weeks, five days per week, from to in the
afternoon. In most places the seaso nis only six weeks.

The daily exercises began with the salute to the flag, and
a song, after which the afternoon was divided into periods,
and the children separated into groups for work and play.

| Among the older children, large and interested classes were

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS,

formed in chair-eaning and raffia work. The boys actually
caned thirty-four chairs upon the playground, and since the
closing of the season some little chaps have done thriving
business among their neighbors. Indeed there is still a
demand for playground industrial material. Among
the sports, baseball was the most popular with the boys.
Story-telling drew quiet, eager audiences. Games. and songs
made the hours fly and folk-daneing, started about the middle
of the season, grew ever more popular. On some afternoons
there were as many as children upon the grounds, divided
about as follows: West Street,  Hampden Street,  ;
Maple Street,  Riverside Park,  Monday, washday,
and Wednesday, public bath house day, saw the smallest
attendance. During the eight weeks, indeed, children
were cared for at total cost of or, two cents per
dav, ten cents week, eighty cents per season per elild.

Data from other sources on basis of six weeks of supervised play, give rate of nearer  per child.

PLAYGROUND LUNCHES.

At first it was thought advisable to serve penny lunches
in the middle of each session, and every director was instructed
to obtain material. However, shrewd mothers soon found an
economy in providing at home the graham bread and molasses,
and later in the season, the graham crackers, which upon the
field cost penny. At any rate we learned from the bakers
that this nutritious food had found its way into the homes of
the children, even if it had not been so popular in the sandbox and on the ball field. .

TRAINING CLASS.

As the summer’s work progressed our hopes in regard to
volunteer workers met with sore disappointment. On several
occasions we found ourselves with only the director of the
eround in charge: and at all times there was greatly reduced

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
and very uncertain force of workers to be relied upon. The
volunteers, feeling that they were under no obligation to attend, came and went at all hours, to the utter destruction of
any organization or discipline. However, when they were

- paid nominal sum, and when they grew to understand the
full significance and value of the training they themselves
were receiving, they devoted their whole time to the work.
This training class of twelve volunteer workers met at Public
Library Hall to receive instructions from the director in
chair caning, in raffia work, in the teaching of games and the
folk-daneing. By means of this morning class, as well as
through the practical work on the grounds in the afternoon,
these volunteers have become qualified as assistants for the
coming year.

HEALTH.

Although in the beginning of our work we had concerned
ourselves hardly at all with playground health, we soon real- :
ized that even greater precautions would be necessary upon
the fields than in the schools. Our director and her assistants

 Studied very closely this phase of the work, and found diseases
of the skin, granulated eyelids and pediculosis somewhat prevalent. The opportunities of the playground director for recognizing these diseases were, perhaps, greater than those of
the school teacher, since, during the intense heat of the summer so few clothes were worn. At one meeting of this commission representatives of the Board of Health and the School
Board were present, and the subject of co-operation among
these three boards was helpfully discussed. Among other suggestions, the employment of school nurse was earnestly recommended, that her services might be available not only during the school term, but during the play seasons as well.
Moreover, free dispensary was talked of as one of the blessings that would soon follow the growing interest in the health
of our children.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
MUSIC.

Feeling that there was popular demand for music, our
Commission entered into negotiation with the Holyoke band to
give series of concerts. Through the co-operation of the
musicians, in spite of our low exchequer, we were enabled to
present six successful concerts, each in different part of the
city. We have been too successful not to do more another
year. At least three concerts should be given each week during July and August; one on Sunday afternoon, from to  ,
at some designated place, preferably the Maple Street grounds;
one on Saturday afternoon, in different locality each week,
for the benefit of the mothers and children; and one some
evening of each week, always in different locality, for the
benefit of the laboring man and his family. This, of course,
will require some money. But if Rochester has spent 
per year for music, and is going to spend can we not
afford  or  to lighten our people’s hearts after
their day’s work? .

USE OF GROUNDS.

Although supervised play came to an end on August  th,
the grounds have continued in use ever since. At no time, indeed, does playground cease to be playground. Last
spring, at the time of our beginning, every inch of developed
ground was instantly appropriated by the children. From the
very first, the baseball boys made the fields their own. However, after the beginning of supervised play, no games of ball,
aside from those assigned in the daily program were allowed
on the grounds when the classes were in session. This precaution was due to fear of some possible injury to the children
or some interference with playground work.

Moreover, all athletic fields connected with the several
grounds were reserved each Saturday afternoon for the use of
the employed young men’s league game. Throughout the
whole year there has hardly been Saturday afternoon when
each ground has not had at least two games of ball. At these

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
times the attendance has been very large, averaging as high as
  upon the Maple Street ground. This ground has also
been used several times for field day events: June  th, by the
Grammar School league; June  th, by the Sunday School
league; July  th, for afternoon sports, and evening band coneert and fireworks; in November by the Grammar School
league. The freedom of the grounds to these various schools
and associations was granted by the issue of permits. In all,
there were baseball games plaved upon these grounds and
thirty games of football.

CLOSING FESTIVAL.

Our playgrounds held their closing exercises upon the
Maple Street field August  th,  from to p. m.
The events consisted of marching, saluting the flag, sports,
folk dancing and ball game.

However, the gathering of the children from the various
grounds was, perhaps, the prettiest part of the exhibition.
Shortly after p. m. they gathered with their teachers at the
several recreation centers, the girls, as far as possible, dressed
in white, all furnished with sash of the color of the playground, and each procession led by its respective director and
eolor-bearer. At they began their march to Maple street:
all, that is, except the children from Riverside Park, who came
in two large cars over distance too great for marching. On —
Maple street the exercises were led by Prof, Henry Rittmever.
director of the Riverside ground. The children first made a
hollow square; then, beginning at the south end of the ground,
formed serpentine loop, as they marched across the grounds
to the north end, where they lined up at ‘‘Attention!’’ and
saluted the flag.

At this north end was displayed the industrial work done
during the season. Here, when the children halted, they were
addressed by Miss LeGarde, and twelve of them were awarded
certificates for excellence. The line of march then continued
around the field to the different corners assigned to each

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS. .
ground, after which the period of sports began. The sports
consisted of :—

A  -yard dash for boys under pounds weight.

A  -yard dash for boys over pounds weight.

A  -yard dash for girls.

 -yard dash for boys under pounds weight.

 -vard dash for boys over pounds weight.

Potato race for the girls.

After the sports there was folk dancing, and then, the
closing, and most exciting, event of the day—the baseball
game. Medals were awarded to the winners in the sport. At
the close of the exercises, the children marched back as they
had come, to their several grounds, and there disbanded.

The exhibit of industrial work so surprised and delighted
all that it was placed on exhibition in prominent store window in the heart of the city, so that the excellence of the industrial accomplishment of our Holyoke children, could be
seen and admired by all.

FIRST ANNUAL REPORT
Director Holyoke Playgrounds
 
SEPTEMBER,  .
Mr. Wiliam J. Howes, Chairman Playground Commission:

Dear Sir: One of the Pittsburg speakers at the second
National Playground Congress, said, ‘‘Given an area, lamppost and Director, playground work would be successful.’’
Stress was laid upon the last, the Director, and if in this, the
first annual report of the municipal playgrounds of Holyoke,
much is said along that line, Directorship, it is because that
point established and maintained, the success of this year will
never fall behind. playground director, like Virgil’s poet,
‘ig born not made,’’ and certainly Holyoke was fortunate in
securing for its initial effort the born playground leader in
each recreation center.

The playgrounds of Holyoke opened the afternoon of
July The area was in evidence, the lamp-post present, and the director at hand. One writer of note on municipal playgrounds states that all such should be enclosed, fully
equipped and policed effectively. None of these supposedly
necessary conditions of the three grounds assisted the directors. Hence to the latter all the more credit should be given.
The largest number attending the first day was at the West
Street grounds, where put in appearance, at the Maple
Street, children, st the Hampden Street center,  This
made total, at the opening, of  at the close, August  ,
there were  three times the original number. Now this
drawing from the streets, the natural playground of the city,
child, must have been caused by an influence too great to

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

measure and can be traced to that indefinable magnetism that
lies in the born leader and lover of children in playground
activities. Where it is understood that no compulsion exists
as to attendance, that while apparently disorder reigns, it is
orderly ani well managed disorder, that in any body of children in the outer air, in play time, no matter how well bred,
some friction will result, it is at least more than matter of .
pride to say that the directors of the Holyoke playgrounds
were of such worth that not once during the whole eight weeks
on any ground was there the slightest semblance of lack of order, discourtesy or use of bad language. What this means toa
community any right thinking person can see. If Satan find
some mischief still for idle hands, how much so for the idle,
but not badly disposed youngster of the modern day in modern city. If the playgrounds had no other cause for existence,
they are when well directed, the cause for the cessation of
petty thefts, idle habits of unemployed boys, and induce the
healthier life in the open, where children are made interested
in games and athletics.

Playground interests consist of such activities as will
hold the child unconsciously, make him want to come again
and again, keep him ever cheerful and happy in well-doing,
and all the time see that his physical being is nourished and
strengthened. At the beginning of the season the first efforts
were directed towards games. It was rather surprise, and a
pathetic one, to find there were many children who could not
play outdoor games, knew few games which they could play
spontaneously, in true childish enjoyment of the game,
could not conduct any game or develop leaders. This is not
unusual in many American cities, for the modern manner of
living, the ‘‘fuss, fret and fume’’ of Twentieth Century existence, tends to make the child taboo even friendly contests in physical prowess. This then was the first thing to develop and for weeks the same games were played over and
over, until the children, as children will, grew to love and call
for their favorite games and play them without being told to.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
Said one mother to me, one hot afternoon, ‘‘How is it you
women have got the children to play games and not quarrel?
This is the first summer my babies can get an afternoon nap,
the children used to quarrel so in our back yard.’’ This was
developing the spirit of playing fair, unselfishness, pride in
winning, and love for being part of the game, subordination of self. Story telling, too, at first was employed to hold
the children, for all real children love stories. Each director
and assistants had list of stories ready. Early in the season simple penny lunches were sold, of substantial food,
which kept the children from running home for bread and
molasses.

About the middle of July deemed it wise to begin the
Industrial Work, but to make haste slowly. The creative instinct  inherent in every real child, and while the means
chosen, raffia, appealed mainly to the girls, the boys, too, became interested and wanted to make things. The simplest articles were chosen and the demand for raffia work became epidemic. The fine exhibit shown the last day and later in the
windows of McAuslan and Wakelin’s store, was but small
part of the whole. The plan is to furnish the material raffia,
the child being given the article made at the close of the season. We all love to possess our own handiwork, and few happier girls existed than those, who proudly bore home the fruits
of their summer’s work. The best work in each ground was
awarded certificate of excellence, and those for superiority
m raffia to the girls, and for superiority in chair caning to
the boys, at the Maple Street grounds on the Field Day. Fourteen different articles were chosen to be made this season in
rafia. For the boys whose muscular strength  so much
greater than the girls of the same age, from twelve to fourteen years, chair caning was introduced on three of the
grounds. This was the greatest kind of success, practical
thing for boys, because many of them were not only kept busy
but earned pocket money.

On July  under Herr Henry Rittmeyer’s direction,

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

and through the courtesy of the Park Commission, the fourth
playground was opened in the Riverside Park. more ideal
place could not be found than this spot on the Connecticut
River, natural plateau at the base of the hills. Herr Rittmeyer, who has for children the same drawing power as had
the Pied Piper of Hamelin, of the ancient folk tale, soon had
a daily average attendance of-nearly three hundred of the
most charming German American ‘‘kinder.’’ When one calls
to mind that the Maple Street ground had nothing but the
space, few swings, the lamp-post, and was in the heart of a
busy city, with little, if any shade, it shows what magnetism
Fraulein Paula Hofer possessed when her daily attendance
was held to at least two hundred children.

It was determined by your co ission that as chief
director, should train those who wished to volunteer their
services this season, with the understanding that next year,
they would, if successful, be employed at full salary. For this
work fifteen persons volunteered. They were placed from
time to time under the two trained supervisors, the Misses
Theresa and Lucy McKenna of Providence, R. I. beliéve 
this will prove an admirable working body to draw from for
assistants, and recommend that they be employed next season as such with full salary paid them. :

During the season met the training class in the Public
Library, and am much indebted to the librarian for the
frequent use of the same when needed for instruction and
lectures. The library also was most thoughtful in securing
training books and current literature on playground
work and workers. Conferences were frequently held with
the four directors, heads of the playgrounds, and visited
one or more grounds, and often all the grounds each day.
Not single accident occurred during the playground season
to any child. Not one arrest was made. The grounds and
apparatus were in use every second, yet not single second
of confusion was observed. This on grounds, not enclosed, not

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
policed—because do not believe in that idea,—open at all
times is remarkable showing.

During the season baseball teams were organized on all
the four centers for play. Games were played each week.
The West Street team were the final ‘‘Champions.’’

On August  conference was held with the city Board
of Health and the Superintendent of Holyoke Schools by the
Playground Commission. This was called because it was observed that need existed for the oversight of certain skin
diseases that are contagious, also pediculosis and granulated
eyelids, as well as phases of poor vision in large number
of children. If the Board of Health would deem it wise to
follow the plan found successful elsewhere of securing a
School Nurse as was suggested at this conference, the Playground Commission could secure her for July and August.
With her aid plan of Hygienic Inspection could be worked
out which could overcome these physical defects caused by
the close contact of hundreds in playground activities and
would return the children to school in September much the
gainer by such plan of oversight. |

For the coming season of there should be generous
provision for the extension of the Industrial Work. would
like to have the older girls taught Basketry and extended
raffia work. They should be encouraged to make garments
and take up crocheting. For the boys chair caning should
be made more of and also form of wood work with light
tools. Basket-Ball League should be organized as well as
a second season of the Baseball. Shelters are needed badly on
both the Maple Street and Hampden Street grounds and a
bathing pool on the latter. It seems to me that play center
is needed on the Highlands as well as in Elmwood. Folk
Dancing we hardly began and next year it should be taught
largely on all grounds.

To the Playground Commission, and to you, Mr. Chairman, personally, am greatly indebted for your hearty, active
co-operation, your ever ready response to my ideas for furth  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
ering the work. The plans regarding apparatus and its establishment were always carried out by the Superintendent of
Public Playgrounds in the most exact and careful manner,
| and were great factor in what all acknowledged was successful eight weeks. The press, the Telegram and the Transcript, were most generous in giving space and credit for the
efforts made, which had such happy result in the Field
Day, August  .
Very respectfully submitted,

| ELLEN LEGARDE.

Director, Season  .
Municipal Playgrounds,
Holyoke, Mass.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
OUR TEACHING FORCE.
DIRECTOR,
Ellen Le Garde. os
ASSISTANT DIRECTORS, ,
Henry Rittmeyer, Theresa McKenna,
Paula Hofer, Lucy MekKenna.
VOLUNTEER WORKERS.
Mary L. Herbert, Mae G. Reid,
Bride C. Herbert, Mrs. Henry Rittmeyer,
Paul  S. Howes, Clare G. Sullivan,
Marie Kostenbader, Gertrude L. Wallace,
Arthur Boyington, M. Agnes Moynihan,
Lulu M. McF aul, Mary H. Kennedy.
Helen Taylor, oe

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
RECOMMENDATIONS.

We beg again to make further suggestion for the work
of the coming year. In addition to our recommendation in
regard to shelters, fencing, school nurse, and band concerts,

| we most heartily urge the opening of more recreation centers,
one on the Highlands, one in Elmwood, and one in the vicinity
of the Hamilton Street and Morgan schools. In this later
neighborhood there is absolutely no open space in which the
children can play. Of course, with the opening of these centers, more teachers and more equipment will be required.

One more growing need is that of meeting place for the
Commission. During the past year our sessions have been
held in the Mayor’s office. However, the demands made upon

| us will increase with every year, and, since we are accumulating supplies, books, records, etc., we are in great need of a
room of our own.

OUR THANKS.

- We desire to express our gratitude, first of all, to the
Mayor, the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Public Works,
the School Committee, the Board of Health and the Police
department, for their fine spirit of co-operation, and their valuable assistance.

Again, we would thank the Board of Park Commissioners
for their generous sharing of Riverside Park for our play, and
cf other grounds for our band concerts. To the Public Library Association we are greatly indebted for the use of the
hall as meeting place for our training classes, and now, at
this present date, for the entertainment of the New England
Playground Institute; and for the hospitality of their basement to the playground workers during the summer.

Again we are equally grateful to Mrs. George C. Gill

) for set of parallel bars; to Mr. Frank B. Towne for our
record book and our stationery; to Mrs. H. W. Atherton for
cifts of raffia, ribbons and flowers used in the trimming of

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
dolls’ hats; to A. Steiger Co. for generous supply of
worsteds for crocheting; to Mr. William G. Dwight for a
money contribution to the Maple Street ground; to the
Holyoke Water Power Company for the free use of land on
Main street adjoining the engine house, and on Maple Street
opposite the Maple Street playgrounds for skating purposes;
and to the W. C. T. U. for drinking fountain for Maple
Street ground.

To the local press, the Transcript and the Telegram, our
very heartiest thanks are due. They have at all times given
us cordial and intelligent support, and have presented fair and faithful records of our work.

FINANCIAL STANDING.
For financial statement see report of Board of Public
Works.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

Fae’ Ae  *?  bie Boa Be  
*. .* i, —. ‘. ae, are as  N
  r-  s- ‘i ae ae gu iets  y
oe aes v.  cae ey ame Pr Wp  
é me ys  
Ls wie”  OP   one
: ef Se  sees
. om ry,   ee
—  OTP ay tae }

;  as Sas eae

a Papaya as Paw.
  wees at y. ;
PUES SE RYa\  
. ait os Tag le ae
er  et —* ,
ix e' den Se aoa
nr fh “|
j }
SWINGS AND ATHLETIC FIELD WEST STREET GROUNDS.
“s  -* w. |
De Ase ar Ps ——.. ares fe aig qe ae ‘
asia sy os See Ge. Ze
saerie
gL Upie ie ae) Sak oe
oe doa Be CL
ry ott Ben os,
. p)  a)
; .
| vy Bs “
ec ar
. ts cq "Tar
. \. a
“A -*  La   +. pk tr
;  --  hae BP
? rs  Sg be  
ae er Stee ee
ah
WADING POOL AND ATHLETIC FIELD WEST STREET.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
Ae sas Ral |
- Ss vt
ME. —- .
eaeiett  |
ae ;
ck Xe
eye
——. —
. we)
j 't Bp’ ie” .
A .
a amie jade*\ |, eet
GYMNASTICS WEST STREET GROUNDS.
Ee
  s
‘ie .
eas See
* Yara Me  a
“ ss
r pone sy NV 
’ Fe 
a's YY “ee By) Bi i
" a@ a“ aa
hl Ry }
. A
b mr Ca  “ee A
es ae ey ES  Bey
| Py gy Aa rae ae eet
WEST STREET WADING POOL.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
 See
 Th *: ;
tt: SON ,
  oa  by
: 
Ww
; 
mK et:  eins ». rd o
# pas we
ms ys PF  ’ wt  
SS Bry
ah }
: 
GAMES RIVERSIDE PARK GROUNDS. |
 
o\
 Or. .
| Ak  Sa,
rhe! oe i
. mi ,
 “em j
Zhe Bes“i FF
SE ye 
’ ae A\ ho 
‘Nit Pe oneal
 a
BS  
wae in age:
i a. H/TBy ,. SS  a. |
DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTORS MAPLE STREET GROUNDS.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
ese :
Ps  “J
 .
oe See
+ ’
. be 
ia “" ”
* +, -s .
— el ra :
ae Be .
—e  
‘ on “| ose. a, er \
- ‘s To aa '
(fl inf AES, gs, f
‘s oS
;  tot of
; N,  ZS an\ .
a —m as voi
 See ae ae Cie
’ “ton fa  
‘ oe
. oni ON ot Sy  .
.  uh  adee Oe .
|
GAMES HAMPDEN STREET GROUNDS.
, ‘a Se “
tle) gis, Sa 
.  bo ey e- tf re S: Like
wT Vx ‘S
SJ wre) ve .
|  ae ae
- ‘er.  cx le a
‘ ——— .
: ea t
“ »-e 
af im Agia oe
» .., ot Ld ’
;A
Re OR ge ee
oo sae ae tae nee gee oe
;  Seas St Bee Se SSeS
  aw eS Sie Sows —
| ant 
,
GAMES I{LAMPDEN STREET GROUNDS. ,

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
——— —— LO Se ae
be Jf ae Se SP ae a
wy —s  ete ae
ne ey a: S-- ew ye ie Ses. orn:
te. oetas
ie ge Paty an MELE ke,
 Pe. oN +’   Rar Bal ven. Sa
b peeOS Re ad
“i!  ro) Sa, LS “Wa re Ae! Ke ir.
pray Rate).  be FS
itese {eer ins, Uve lye Times os
cS Se oeSon ae as
a ePas et oye Fs JRE ’
P, fe S, |. ha Fey: “
e Fé i? rea rs  ™.  Se  Pe  ma Ge 
rm. se  es ae La  cake o.:. 
+ cea aot PH wham oy  
Peet MES ann SS ea 
ye es  Tru .
Win’,  Baile pattie pe ‘mF is ty sie
Re, YF Yu, oe To. yee  |... Na
aeGate Dee oe +. ae
DR iy of ye BR ne y
z Se Seg Sinte  os 
| RAG Fey See ae ht -* "a! FE te:
  |
ar eS wa SD ué oy
 ay ms Wiese Td cm  r: K-*
i  ake tps xX.  eS  x
Ss aS St, oe STee we
Ce wet  On ae .
os re ae Sr as  “Fr, :
as yy —- —*, re’ he Pog wae. aside  
etl es, ne Pe Pee ey Te ae a
Se ERS eT taf Pe AS Ae
 oe Fut ve  Mes  seigh 
"P  poe eere pemmumeme mee  
fe Tt ma we‘f Oe ae 
* ea:ae .; FSR ant ae Yad)
A Ae  at Pig  ARS |
Bag?) SR) Ga aad
Ts fang ox: ae c.  a. ai a
RS hy Se. ‘}  }, “se
 eZ  ‘
CFA PLE- ae: “Sy oer  :
Nese: pay ae oe Ag
Bee fe. ae Se es a, oy es
-  Ree —
a \.
er Sy  ae  Pe  i
eG) gl
(Ree .
‘geen? :. LX “i st }
 
- iY Se
——.  +t es a
  tee  v" Tia?  .
lier: AsaS! ;
i BES  Soe ae /
PO Se
|) See, ag |
hd —
) oe :
eh ne Pe —
gyrase,
— ae BF ‘at
bo) :
. INDUSTRIAL WORK MAPLE STREET GROUNDS AND RIVERSIDE PARK.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
ry a” Sat oe Sa &
, “hs nd »; ad
|le ee.  i
ae Ps aN  aa
* aw it o£, ‘fal “A
;‘, ®
wed Rs BD a
s “Ww #
. ms §
— ae oe
a ‘ge ox rad .
. are ‘. 
Me, ji ,
Wor  Pe tig hy  \, a
jyiy ze 
| YS Ay.
 “| be i
a ke Fy AB AT Ze) ‘. yy .
x ay fr A/ \“ va *
F iy i
- “&
‘ es f
. SS. 
te sa aied Fo ios atrre iP,
SEED
ait:
— ws eet
  .*
os Fd of SSE  .v neUy  ad
ee en Bisse
 ss “Sa
re ra
‘el ap Sul  ——  aa Ws,
“ at “a é’,
& at .
  at yeRez
—  —— ae oe es
a oe et, tate
we Thee pw Wee oe SSAi
INDUSTRIAL WORK WEST STREET GROUNDS.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
RET IF ERE) ear 
'  Fh i
et os ra ‘
, SEES. RE: Late:
 pS PAN ae
Bn ere || ns
ie Fo nS  ‘
* PES ote ;
L.+
ae é,  By  A] xy, eet ae:
t er  ‘
  .) Sr ro ie
. AAA he peat. fe, .
ey  hae Ss  -’
} fae PPFret ‘
a iy &
; we,  Ps a, Loe :
peoeeros,  Cae,
ga iF “pt oe: ites ms
I SSPRRRY bc he oS oe
x babe cree et o* “irid) sth pe
de es LA wR xt  .
 cate re GA
ia. vA \\ the Oe ei,  "i,
ohNP age —, ene
we Fook WS ae CE ESS
?, a
“hie eM oa ae
ud fet ry —. iil
bey eel IO ae oe Se
ag “pet oe a
» ae  Po ess i
; as. ex me]  
I Sir. cPek, Sn ae 'y be
»  ss
Dekh yy  Sha SEO eS ey
wine  aK en Raed  t
er)  
, oe a
ee wy Cw, OS  ae
o ie P| aa pad *
tit Sie  ao” ee
eo  Ole ua AS »
 Pie,  
“ Ca 
a-&  x, in al p
poe SS TERE ES
*  ,§ xo Pos Le :
f .* e
oa Pa ."  ‘
zs. Ou,  oa pes P’
. Fas »S SS a
 ey .. “a Tad  aoe ., .
Or C's s) 
s T+ See oe  es, oe Ss -" Fras a, .
| +, M.  ‘y hy  x
») See
” we wae his oie
i. -. /
‘ zs? sy  '
. tn aoa,  *
 abies eas oh
pass Ps a
INDUSTRIAL WORK OF ONE GIRL HAMPDEN STREET GROUNDS.
Digitized ty GOORe

ii
'
|
.
REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS. pis ‘al hd ,
. SEY AEE DS
  a? ie Fs
egpar. oe Ff
-  ae s}
.  “
ie Paar ;
in 
ol yy F
ALL
‘aA tied if, ,
Za ( ; |
yh   Ag
s,s ait  ak r
a P
  (- Bekah  
me
 
|
CHAIR CANING MAPLE STREET GROUNDS.

i
»
'

 
.’
®
'
. .

REPORT OF
OFFICE OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS,
Holyoke, Mass., December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: We take great pleasure in presenting to
you the report of the Fire Department for the year ending
December .

The Board met January and organized by the
election of Charles L. Newcomb as chairman, and George J.
Prew as vice-chairman, and John Hildreth as secretary.

There have been fires and alarms during the year
which has just closed, five less than last year, with loss of

| on the buildings, and loss of  on the
contents, making total loss of which is remarkable record, especially when we consider that over 
of this was lost in one fire, the Sears fire, which oceurred
January The nature of the stock carried by this
firm (groceries), made the fire loss exceptionally heavy, and
your commissioners feel that the work of the department on
this occasion merits especial praise. When we consider the
results of the work in the Fire Department for the year we
bear willing testimony to the splendid work of both Chief
Lynch and the officers and men under him.

We do not think that any fire department in New England can show such record for successful fire fighting as our
own department has shown for many years past, and it is
very gratifying to your Commissioners to feel that the excel  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
lent work of our department does not pass unnoticed by our
citizens. Many are the words of praise and appreciation that
are received by the Commissioners from the owners of the
property endangered by fire, for the work of the department,
and very often sizable check for the Firemen’s Relief Fund.
- Our report shows that the value of the property endangered by fire was nearly ten millions of dollars, and that
the total insurance upon the same was nearly four and threefourths millions; that the amount of insurance paid was only  less than the total loss, so that the net loss to
our citizens from fire for the year was only or an average
of less than nineteen cents for each fire and alarm. most
reinarkable showing.

The money that the city has expended in the Fire Department has been splendid investment, and the work of the department has justified the action of the City Government in
its wise and liberal treatment of the department.

The last place in which to practice penny-wise policy
is In the Fire Department, and real economy has been shown
in keeping up the department to its present state of efficiency,
so that when the demand  made upon the department we are
able to meet it.

The enthusiastic and courageous work of both officers and
men  largely responsible for our exdingly low losses and
to the almost entire absence of loss of human life in our fires.
Only one person has died as result of injury received at a
fire during the past vear, Mrs. Mary Sullivan, of Walnut
street, who died on March as result of injuries lved from the explosion of kerosene oil lamp.

When we hear of the terrible losses both to life and
property in the other cities we feel very grateful to our brave
firemen, who so swiftly and skilfully put out the fires which
have in them such dangerous possibilities; and in this connection we earnestly hope that our citizens will help us by leaving their teams and automobiles as far as possible on the side
streets and not on High street. It is often only matter of

I
REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
seconds whether life is lost or serious fire ensues after the |
alarm is rung, and the firemen can never tell when they start
what awaits them, so that it is very important that all citizens
co-operate with us in giving us as clear streets as possible.
The department has been greatly strengthened by the
addition of Stevens-Duryea automobile for the use of the
Chief, and Knox Automobile Despatch Wagon and Combination Chemical and Hose Wagon. In the building of these
pieces of apparatus the Commissioners put much thought, and |
they are equipped with many new and valuable inventions,
and are considered by all who have examined them (and they :
have been inspected by many experts from other cities and
states) to be the finest pieces of fire apparatus produced to
date. They have already more than justified their introduction into the department, notably at the fire in the Ward One |
school house, when but for the prompt arrival of the department very serious loss of life would probably have ensued. .
At this fire seconds were very valuable, and goes to prove
that to get quickly to the scene of the fire is to win half of
the battle.
We thank your Honorable Mayor and City Council for .
your liberal appropriations and your commissioners assure
you that they have exercised their best judgment in the
economical expenditures of the same. In making the appropriations for coming years we ask your careful consideration
of the following recommendations, and although some of them
have been made for many years, we trust that this year’s ap- |
propriation will enable us to carry them into effect.
First.—In accordance with the recommendations of the
National Board of Fire Underwriters and the International
Association of Fire Engineers, we believe that the time has
come to change the couplings of our hose from the clutch
coupling to thread coupling with seven and one-half threads
to the inch. This would make the couplings in all fire departments interchangeable. This will entail considerable expense,

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
but in the opinion of your Commissioners it would be money
well spent.

SEconp.—The changes at High Street Engine House have
made conditions on the apparatus floor much better, but the
location of the house is just as bad as ever, and the danger to
pedestrians on this, our most crowded thoroughfare, is something that ought to command your most serious attention.
It is not necessary that we should repeat the various arguments for the change of the location of the headquarters to a
more suitable site, and in making any change we ought to erect
a modern and up-to-date engine house that would last for
many years.

THIRD.—We recommend that House No. be sold and a
modern engine house, suitable for this district, be erected
somewhere near the center of the ward; and we suggest that
the vacant school house lot in this ward would make good
location for new house. The present location with its
splendid railroad facilities, could be sold for very considerable sum so that with the school house lot, new house could
be erected with the expenditure of only small sum. Sanitary
conditions are far from good here.

FourtH.—We again recommend that Engine No. be retitted with new pumps and engine. It has been in use twentySIX years.

FirtH.—The Fire Alarm System has been installed for
many years and there have been many improvements made
in this branch of our service since that time, and the present
system should be entirely replaced with new and modern
equipment, and as far as possible all wires should be put
underground. The risk we run in continuing the present
overloaded system is too great to continue much longer. It is
hable to break down at any time.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS. :
SIXTH.—We would recommend the purchase of modern |
horseless aerial truck. The truck we now have is very old
and out of date, and it ought to be replaced and the truck we
now have could be used to advantage in the South Holyoke
Engine House. We also recommend the purchase of another ;
Automobile Despatch and Hose Wagon, to be placed at such
a point in our city that long runs by horses may be avoided.
The following is statement of the receipts and expenditures in the Fire Department for the year ending December
  :
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation $ 
Receipts from sale of horses, ete.  
Appropriation for purchase of automobiles.  
Premium on appropriation. ,
Total receipts.  |
EXPENDITURES. .
For salaries. , 
For stokers and engineers (call members)  
Repairs, new apparatus, supplies and contin- ,
gent account.  
For automobiles  
Balance on hand ..  
Total expenditures . 
HAY AND FEED. ,
This branch of our department continues to be an exd- )
ingly costly one. We are hoping that the introduction of the
automobiles will materially reduce the cost of this department
for the coming year.

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
IIOUSES. ,

The houses, with one or two exceptions, are in excellent
condition. The High Street Engine House has been very
much improved on the first floor, but the sleeping accommoda’ tions continue to be very bad indeed. We believe that the city
should during this coming vear rearrange the sleeping accommodations in the various houses so that the men may have
sleeping rooms similar to the conditions which exist in the
Highland Engine House. This would not be very expensive
change and would add materially to the health and comfort
of the men. "

HOSE.

The commissioners have followed the practice of previous
years, and what hose has been purchased has been the wax
and gum treated hose entirely. We have not been able to purchase out of this year’s appropriation more than feet of
hose, and there should be purchased during this coming year
at least  Every year’s experience which we have with
this wax and gum treated hose proves this to be the best kind
of hose to buy. We have the following amount of hose on
hand. This is smaller amount than we have had for some
years past, on account of the small amount we have been able
to purchase the past two years.

: The following is the amount of hose on hand:
House No. New Good Fair Poor Total
House No. ....  
House No.  ... .... we...  
House No.  ... wee.  Leas  ...  
House No. ... we... ....  
House No.  ... .... Lene .... House No.  ... wee. tae ....  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
HORSES. |
We have now thirty-five horses in the department, and ,
hope that as the years go by to reduce this amount by the introduction of more automobiles. Some of the horses will have
to be replaced very quickly, as they are in poor shape, and we |
are obliged to keep the horses in the department up to ecertain standard of efficiency. .
LOCATION AND ASSESSORS’ VALUATION OF THE ;
FIRE ENGINE HOUSES.
House No.  High street,
value of house and land 
House No.  Main street,
value of house and-land  
House No.  West Hampden street,
value of house and land. .
House No.  Canal street,
value of house and land  
House No.  South street,
value of house and land  
flouse No.  Chestnut street,
value of house and land ,
$ 
PERMANENT FORCE.
  John T. Lynch, Chief Engineer. |
  Patrick J. Reilly, Assistant Chief.
  Joseph M. LaFrance, Second Assistant Chief.
  John Castle, on pension list. |
  Thomas F. Monaghan, Superintendent of Fire Alarm.
  Daniel J. Gorman, Captain. |
  James J. Long, Captain.
  Daniel Hogan, Captain.
  Samuel D. Loomis, Captain.

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
  George F. Orrell, Captain.
  Daniel J. Brennan, Captain.
  Patrick J. Hurley, Captain.
 Daniel McLean, Captain.
 John P. Wynn, Captain.
  John F. Rohan, Captain.
  John Welch, Captain.
 Jeremiah Hallissey, Lieutenant.
  John J. Casey, Lieutenant. ,
  Joseph M. Riley, Lieutenant.
  John J. Ryan, Lieutenant.
  Michael J. Donoghue, Lieutenant.
  John J. Manning, Lieutenant.
  James J. Crowley, Lieutenant.
  Walter Watt, Lieutenant. ;
  William Gately, Lieutenant.
  Charles H. Knapp, permanent man.
. Louis LaBreque, permanent man.
  Timothy Harrington, permanent man.
  James J. Sullivan, permanent man.
  Albert Tardy, permanent man.
  Austin F. Mulqueeny, permanent man.
  Daniel Moynahan, permanent man. |
  Patrick J. Kennedy, permanent man.
  Daniel J. Lynch, permanent man.
  Frank  S. Lynch, permanent man. :
  Thomas Conway, permanent man.
  Charles F. W. Aurnhammer, permanent man.
  George A. Ellison, permanent man.
  Thomas Ash, permanent man.
  James Brady, permanent man.
  William H. Strain, permanent man.
  James O’Grady, permanent man.
 John J. Moriarty, permanent man.
  Patrick T. Kennedy, permanent man.
  Patrick J. Rohan, permanent man.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  k

  John J. Fenton, permanent man.
  James M. Gately, permanent man.
  John B. Moreau, permanent man.
  Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man.
  August F. Greunert, permanent man.
o  Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man.
  Michael Bowler, permanent man.
  Matthew J. Welch, permanent man.
o  Robert E. McCarthy, permanent man.
  Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man.
  James Dwyer, permanent man.
d  William Brady, permanent man.
  Michael Riley, permanent man.
  Dennis Devine, permanent man.
  Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man.
  William J. Millane, permanent man.
  Sifroy Perron, permanent man.
 Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man.
  Paul Bieber, permanent man.
  George Miles, permanent man.
  Michael Lacey, permanent man.
  Patrick Barrett, permanent man.
  Dennis J. Sheehan, permanent man.
  John J. Nugent, permanent man.
  George Hickson, permanent man.
  Dominick A. Gorman, permanent man.
  Ernest L. Krug, permanent man.
  Thomas Sullivan, permanent man.
  Edward Clancy, permanent man.
  Thomas Fallon, permanent man.
  Roger Coffee, permanent man.
  Michael P. Mahaney, permanent man.
  Michael Cray, permanent man.
  John T. McCarthy, permanent man.
  John F. Lally, permanent man.

Out of the above John Castle is on the pension list.

James Dwyer on the sick list.

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
SALARIES PAID IN THE DEPARTMENT.
Chief engineer, per year . 
First assistant engineer, per year  
Second assistant engineer, per year  
Superintendent of Fire Alarm, per year  
Lineman, per year  
| Captains, per year  
Lieutenants, per year.  
Two permanent engineers of steamers, per
year each  
Drivers and permanent man, per year.  
Four call engineers of steamers, per year  
Six stokers of steamers, per year.  
| Permanent men in the department, first year,  
Permanent men in the department, second year,  
Permanent men in the department, third year,  
Permanent men in the department, fourth year,  
Permanent men in the department, fifth year,  
Secretary of Commission, per year ae  
Veterinary, per year  
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Charles L. Newcomb, Chairman, Term expires January,  
George J. Prew, Term expires January,  
James H. O’Connell, Term expires January,  
John Hildreth, Secretary.
John J. Moynahan, Veterinary.
HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY, NO.  .
Joseph M. LaFrance, second assistant engineer and captain,
  High street,  .
John J. Casey, lieutenant, Iligh street, May .
William Brady, permanent man, May .
Patrick J. Rohan, permanent man, High street, May  ,
 :

- REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  

John J. Moriarty, permanent man, Iligh street, September .

Michael J. Riley, permanent man, Iligh street, July  ,
 .

Roger Coffee, lineman, High street, February .

Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man, High street, January,  .

Michael J. Lacey, permanent man, High street, April  ,
 .

Dominick A. Gorman, permanent man, High street, June sy
  .

John F. Lally, permanent man, Iligh street, October  ,
 .

John T. MeCarthy, permanent man, Iligh street, March
  .

Michael Cray, permanent man, High street, January  ,
 .

HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY, NO.  .

John F. Rohan, captain, Hampden street, January  ,
 .

Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man, Hainpden street,
January,  .

George A. Ellison, permanent man, Ilampden street, February,  .

Timothy Harrington, permanent man, Hlampden street,
January .

COMBINATION CHEMICAL AND HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY NO.  .

Daniel J. Gorman, captain, South street, February  ,
 .

James J. Crowley, lieutenant, South street, January  ,
 .

Charles F. W. Aurnhammer, driver, South street, September .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
STEAMER AND DESPATCH COMPANY NO.  .
Patrick J. Hurley, captain, High street, March .
Joseph M. Riley, lieutenant, High street, September  ,
 |
John J. Fenton, permanent man, High street, January,
 .
Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man, High street, April
  .
Sifroy Perron, permanent man, High street, April .
Frank  Lynch, permanent man, Iligh street, May .
Paw Bieber, permanent man, High street, April .
John J. Nugent, permanent man, High street, June  ,
 .
Ernest L. Krug, permanent man, High street, December
  .
Thomas F. Fallon, permanent man, High street, February
  .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
Daniel McLean, captain, Main street, August .
William Gately, leutenant, Main street, July,  .
John B. Moreau, permanent man, Main street, January  ,
 .
Robert E. McCarthy, driver of steamer, Main street, October |
Patrick Barrett, permanent man, Main street, April  ,
 .
Dennis Devine, permanent man, Main street, April .
James J. Sullivan, driver hose, Main street, March  ,
 .
Michael P. Mahaney, spare driver, Main street, January
  .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
Samuel D. Loomis, captain, Hampden street, July .
Albert Tardy, driver hose, Hampden street, April,  .

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
Daniel Moynahan, driver, Hampden street, April .
Charles H. Knapp, engineer, Hampden street, August  ,
 .
James F. Dwyer, permanent man, Hampden street, April
  .
James O’Grady, permanent man, Hampden street, April,
 .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
John Welch, captain, Canal street, August,  .
John J. Ryan, lieutenant, Canal street,  .
Thomas Conway, driver hose, Canal street, January,  .
James Brady, permanent man, Canal street, January  ,
 .
Dennis J. Sheehan, driver, Canal street, April .
Michael Bowler, permanent man, Canal street, January,  .
Matthew F. Welch, permanent man, Canal street, October
  .
Thomas Sullivan, spare driver, Canal street, December  ,
 .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  .
Daniel Hogan, Captain, South street, February .
Jeremiah J. Hallissey, lieutenant, South street, July  ,
 .
P. T. Kennedy, permanent man, South street, August  ,
‘  .
August F. Greunert, permanent man, South street, January,  .
P. J. Kennedy, driver, South street, January .
Louis LaBreque, engineer, South street, November .
Thomas Ash, driver hose, South street, March,  .
HOSE COMPANY NO.  .
Daniel J. Brennan, captain, Main street, April ,
wena oe Donoghue, lieutenant, Main street, January,

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man, Main street, June,
 .
George Miles, permanent man, Main street, April .
Edward M. Clancy, driver, Main street, February .
HOSE COMPANY NO  .
James J. Long, captain, Chestnut street, August,  .
John J. Manning, lieutenant, Chestnut street, September  ,
 |
Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man, Chestnut street,
April .
Daniel J. Lynch, driver hose, Chestnut street,  .
George Hickson, permanent man, Chestnut street, June  ,
 .
CHEMICAL ENGINE NO.  .
- John P. Wynn, captain, High street, January .
James M. Gately, permanent man, High street, June  ,
 .
Walter  S. Watt, lieutenant, High street, February  ,
 .
William J. Millane, permanent man, High street, April  ,
 .
CHEMICAL ENGINE COMPANY NO.  .
George F. Orrell, captain, Hampden street, February,
 .
Austin F. Mulqueeny, driver, Hampden street, May  ,
 .
William H. Strain, permanent man, Hampden street,
. November .

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
. CALL ENGINEERS AND STOKERS.
STEAMER NO. l.
Frank A. Shelley, engineer, mechanic, Newton place, April,
 :
White P. Bidwell, stoker, paper finisher, Newton place,
April,  ,
STEAMER NO.  .
James A. Flynn, engineer, mechanic, Hamilton street,
October .
Edward Ahearn, stoker, moulder, Main street, August  ,
 .
STEAMER NO.  |
LF. Thorpe, stoker, carpenter, Waldo street, March,  .
STEAMER NO.  .
John F. Mahoney, engineer, tinner, Center street,  .
Patrick Ginley, stoker, August .
STEAMER NO.  .
James J. Murray, stoker, August .
STEAMER NO.  .
James O’Connor, engineer, mechanic, West street, July
  
Patrick J. Cronin, stoker, mechanic, Hich street.
FIRES AND ALARMS.

The number of fires and alarms during the past year was
three hundred and forty-six, of which one hundred and thirtyeight were bell alarms, one hundred and fifty-one were still
alarms, and fifty-seven where no alarm was given.

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.

There were eight false alarms. The following is statement of the valuation of the property endangered by fire, and
insurance on said property, with the amount of the losses by
fire and the amount paid by insurance companies, viz:
Buildings .$ 
Contents ..  

Total. , 
Insurance on buildings . 
Insurance on contents. . 

- Total. , 
Damage to buildings Loe 
Damage to contents.   .

Total. , 
Insurance paid on buildings 
Insurance paid on contents  

Total. , 
Total damage , 
Total insuranee paid. 

Total net less of fires and alarms 

The average loss per fire above insurance was, $. 

The muimber of fires and alarms during each month in
the vear are as follows, viz:

Decree beg pg »]
Sarcrary POO  
Py gen peg poaa  
nen oy
foe  
| |

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
May, .  
June, .  
July, Lo  
August,  ... Coe  
September, ; ;
October, ,  
November, -  
The causes of the different fires and alarms are classified
as follows, viz:
Soot in chimney ,  
Defective chimney ... :
Struck by lightning  
Man set clothes afire  
Pan of paraffine on stove boiled over }
Man stepped on match  
Probably cigar stub dropped into window area  
Careless use of matches. Poe  
Overheated furnace pipe.:
Probably set by tramps to, a,  
Set by firecrackers. Loo. |
Back draft in chimney  
Unknown ook  
Barrel of lime set fire ]
Pan of meat on stove eaucht fire. |, to,  
Set by fire in adjoining building to,  
(iasolene stove —.   ,
Gias stove. ae |
Kettle of tar on stove caught fire  
Gasolene caucht fire. .
Kerosene oll lamp oo,  
Sparks from chinnioey ae ee
Didtehes dy eatton. |
Sel hy bays af

  REPORT .OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Fire in ash chute .  
Kerosene oil stove  
Matches in rags .  
| Probably cigarette stub. Coe  
Probably hot ashes.  
Leaking gas fixtures  
Escaping gas caught fire.  
Candle tipped over.  
Plumbers’ firepot oe took  
Live coal dropped into pile of shavings  
Probably overheated oven  
Bursting steampipe.  
Probably sparks from locomotive  
Children playing with matches  
Japanese lantern ;  
False alarm ,  
Probably sparks from foundry stack ]
Overheated muffler. J
Fire in resistance box  
Tinners’ firepot . i
Probably rats and matches  
Paper of jewelry thrown into fire ;
Defective gas fixture ;
Overheated stove .  
Boys set fire to gasoline spilled on street ;
Woman's hat caught fire from gas light ;
Ceiling took fire from gas light ;
Burning paper dropped into rug.  
Tlot ashes. ,  
Short cireuit ;  
Lighted match dropped into barrel of exeelsior  
Probably cigar or cigarette stub set piazza afire  
Qil stove leaked .
Probably started in smoke house i
Thawing out waterpipe I
Back draft in chimney  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
Probably cigar stub dropped into awning. ... 
Probably live coal jumped from stove  I
Clothes hanging too near stove oe  
Overheated stovepipe re we  
Overheated bearing. Cte  
Aleohol lamp exploded  
Probably spontaneous combustion’.  
Probably mice and matches  
Lighted match dropped into bureau  
Escaping steam .  
Sprinkler head broke and set off thermostat  
Hot water front in stove exploded.  
Wax taper dropped into woman’s hat  
Head of match flew into curtains  
Head of match set draperies afire  
Hot ashes set piazza afire.  
- Pan of grease on stove boiled over.  
Tar kettle boiled over  
Kerosene oil lamp exploded  
Call for assistance from the City of Chicopee  
Tinner’s soldering pot leaked  
Probably man smoking  
Boy stepped on match  
Cigar butt dropped into bureau drawer.  
Probably child playing with matches  
FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

We would repeat our recommendations of many years
past that the wires of the fire alarm system be put underground in the thickly settled portions of the city. We have
been fortunate in the past year that no serious accident has
happened to our system, but we believe it wrong to carry these
Wires overhead any longer, and we trust you will make arrangements so that your Board of Fire Commissioners ean

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
carry out this improvement in the coming year. failure on
the part of the fire alarm system to work properly would be
a serious matter, and we have to commend our superintendent
of this department that he has kept his apparatus in such excellent shape that we have had no serious trouble.
The property of this department is as follows, viz:
  pole wagon... oot.  wire reel wok  
Strong current protector board  
Storage battery -. ta.  
Case and switchboard   miles of wire   tower bells and strikers   mechanical gongs in engineer's house  
| Gamewell signal boxes   telegraph poles.   private Gamewell boxes ;
  eighteen-inch gongs and indicators Indicators without gongs   dead man to, private star boxes ,
  city signal boxes, star make Lo,  S-cireuit repeater.   stop clocks.   horses.  
Wagon .  
Harness ,  
Sleigh    pike poles, cant hook, crowbar, shovels. miles of line wire on hand.  back boards for boxes.   hook blocks for boxes —.   key boxes  
Set of bits.  
Set of screw drivers.  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.  
Bit brace.  
Hack saw , jack switches ,
  battery plates   jars.   
Set of block and falls  
$ 
CONCLUSION.

] Your Commissioners wish to call attention to the first
fireman to take advantage of the new pension ordinance,
namely John Castle, for so many years the Superintendent of
Fire Alarm. It was with extreme reluctance that we came to
the conclusion that the time had arrived, owing to very poor
health, when we should have to dispense with this man’s valuable services. How well he has served the city none know so
well as your commissioners, and we bear willing testimony to ,
his untiring energy and faithfulness to the city’s interests
both day and night; and we believe that the pension you have
granted him has been well merited.

We again thank the Honorable Mayor and City Council,
the Board of Public Works, the Board of Water Commissioners, the Electric Light Department, the City Clerk, City
Treasurer, City Auditor, City Marshal and police officers, and
all other public officers for the many acts of consideration and
courtesy they have shown us during the past year.

And we cannot let this opportunity pass without thanking the Street Railway Company, on behalf of the members
of the Fire Department, for the continued privilege of riding
on the company’s cars when on duty, and for their willing
co-operation with the Fire Department in every way.

Respectfully yours,
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB,
. GEORGE J. PREW,
JAMES H. O’CONNELL,
| Holyoke Fire Commissioners.

REPORT OF THE
ae Department of Police
OFFICE OF THE CITY MARSHAL.
a HotyokeE, Mass., December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of the |
| City of Holyoke:
 GENTLEMEN :—In compliance with the City Ordinance,
I have the honor herewith to submit for your consideration
the annual report of the department for the year ending November |
 ORGANIZATION.

The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal, Captain, Lieutenant, Five Sergeants, Three Inspectors
and fifty Patrolmen, two of whom are detailed in the office.
ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  .

NAME RANK DATE OF APPOINTMENT
Thomas J. Lynch, Marshal, May 
Patrick Herbert, Assistant Marshal, January 
Timothy Haley, Captam, February  d,  
Patrick E. Sullivan, Lieutenant, January 
Dennis Mack, Sergeant, May 
William E, Blackmer, “s January 
George L. Dickinson, February 

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  d

‘NAME. RANK. DATE OF APPOINTMENT
John J. Moriarty, Sergeant, February 
Patrick F. Ryan, January 
Peter A. Cullen, Inspector, February 
Frank R. Metcalf,  February 
Maurice M. O’€onnor, ‘* June 
John A. Powers, House Duty, January 
Cornelius Curran, ‘* February 
Michael Shine, Patrolman, April 
Richard Peters, January 
Thomas F. Riley,  January 
Michael J. Lynch, January 
Frank M. Priest, “f January 
Francis H. Hastings, A“ January 
John A. Geran, ““ January 
James B. Griffin,  February 
Jeremiah J. Linnehan, February 
John A. Vachon, “‘ June 
James T. Donoghue, .* June 
Rock H. Lalonde, June 
Thomas Bresnahan,  June 
Maurice H. Shine, August 
Matthew McClellan, August 
Henry M. Fisher, August 
Daniel C. McCarthy, September 
Richard E. Lowcock, ‘* March 
William J. Carey, February 
Michael Driscoll, February 
Peter J. Manning, February 
Patrick J. Kennedy, .* February 
Walter E. Murray, May 
Edward F. Gilday, July 
James Maleolm,  July 
Patrick J. Driscoll, July 
Thomas J. Rourke, ‘* July 
Patrick J. Gaughan, July 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

NAME RANK DATE OF APPOINTMENT
Andre J. Senay, Patrolman March 
Albert .Mew, June 
John J. O’Donnell, “s June 
Maxwell McDowell, “s August 
James T. Welch, .s January 
John J. Grady, February 
Henry Sussenguth, .* October 

| Michael J. Clifford,  February 
Michael P. Conroy, February 
Medric Beloin, February 
John E. Goss, ** March 
George W. O’Connell, ‘e April 
Michael J. Prendergast, “* October 
John J. Austin, .* May 
Michael J. Fogarty, May 
Timothy J. Mannix, *f February 
George E. Leary, June 
Frederick W. Kunezel, June 
William A. Morgan, “es June 
Timothy J. Murphy, ‘s September 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Matron, April 
William C. Bessett, Reserve Officer, January 
James J. Fitzgerald, .f January 
Patrick J. Falvey,  January 
Michael J. Walsh, January 
Thomas E. Powers, January 
Joseph A. Landry, February 
Michael J. Herlihey, June 

STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
Total number of arrests,  
Males. ,  
Females, ;  

ee
a
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. re
ARRESTS WERE MADE FOR THE FOLLOWINGa
OFFENSES. BF
Assault and battery,  L. pe
Assault with dangerous weapon, wo, ee
Assault on an officer, .- MAL po
Abuse of female child, ee
Adultery, Co, or
Attempt to commit lareeny,  .. re
Breaking and entering, Woe
Breach of the peace,we om ee
Bastardy, . re
Being present at gaming on the Lord’s day, ve S
Cruelty to animals, oo. Sg oe
Carrying dangerous weapon, ol ee
Carrying loaded revolver, ‘ So
Creating disturbance on the street cars,  es
Contempt of court,   ee
Drunkenness, . BO
Dipsomaniacs,   en
Delinquent child, . eet
Evading carfare,.   a
Fornieation,  ... ee,
Gaming on the Lord’s day, so
Gaming, .ae
Giving short measure,   ne
Interfering with an officer, S ee
Indecent exposure,Lt oo
Keeping disorderly house, | To
Keeping gaming house, ee
Keeping slot machine, Loe, a
Larceny, , re .
Lewd and lacivious co-habitation, eg
Manslaughter, , ae oo
Malicious mischief, re  CO
Night walking, ; ae
Non-support, nn i
  ww" ai

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. Neglected child, wo, er YA
Operating picture machine without license,  
Peddling without license, oo. toe te SE
Receiving stolen goods,   te te  
Stubborness, Loe  
Sureties of the peace, od
Selling beans by liquid measure,  
Truancy, wo.  
Unnatural act, .  
Unlawfully taking team, too  
Violation city ordinance,  
Violation of the auto law,  
Violation of the butter law, df
Violation of the milk law,  
Violation of the oleomargerine law,.  
Violation of the game law, It
Violation of the dog law, |
Vagrancy,  
Walking on railroad tracks, , 
| DISPOSITION OF CASES,  .

- Appealed, .  
Bound over to the Superior court,  
Committed to the House of Correction,  
Committed to House of Correction, for non-payment of

fine, .  
Committed to House of Correction, in default sureties to
keep the peace,  
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory,  
Committed to the State Farm, Bridgewater,  
Committed to the Mass. Hospital for dipsomaniaes,  
Committed to the Lyman School, for boys,  
Committed to the Industrial School for bovs, at Shirley,  
Committed to the Hampden County Truant School, —.  

ca ay i
Ni iV n| ta:
aka Il ‘ne
Rye Bed
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  He “hy
Committed to the Women’s Reformatory prison, Sher- oad in he ae
born,ereeOeee   Ste
Committed to the Industrial School for girls,   Soe Se
Committed to the State Board of Charity, ea eae
Discharged, “ge oT.
Dismissed,ae
Fined and paid, ee, ees |
 ): hm ae cc oc croe ae
Probated and discharged, ra gest ew!
Placed on file,  el Pe er ae moe
Released,  Ae
| ice LON Meat
AGES. caer.
Under years, i" fan ve
  and under .. (ian we
  and under  oa S
  and under en
  and under  ,—yx. few
do and under  ), cb Doe
  and under  aes: ae
  ot ee
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED. oO ,
America, to, hee!
Austria,  at V) Ge keg
Belgium, ., oe  
‘Canada, eo Denmark,  
England, ie. if
France, je. [oe we 
‘Germany, ie ,
ds

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

Gre, .  
Hungary, .  
Ireland, .  
Italy, ,  
Norway, ,  
New Brunswick, .  
Nova Scotia,  
Poland, ,  
Prinee Edwards Island,  

Russia, .  
*  Seotland, .  
Sweden, ,  
Switzerland, .  
Turkey, , D
Wales, ,  

NUMBER OF PERSONS ARRESTED EACH MONTH.

December,  ,  
| January,  ,  
February,  .  d
Mareh,  .  
April,  »  ..  
| May,  .  
June, PO,
Judy, PIO, .  
Atuenust, Dodo, J  ST
Set opider Tb oon. Ww
(eet ber Pate  
Ne:
Lal

 
i
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY THE POLICE.
Number of children found-and restored to parents,  
Number of lodgers accommodated, —'. we  
Number of meals furnished prisoners,  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured,  
Number of dead bodies found,|
Number of fire alarms given, Lo  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms,  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported,  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted,  
Number of. stray teams taken ‘up, |
Number of street lamps reported not lighted,  
Number of arrests for other cities,  —.  ]
Number of warrants for liquor served,  
Number of bicycles reported stolen and not recovered,  
Number of bicycles stolen and recovered,  
Number of bicycles found and returned to owners,  
Number of safe doors found open, .
Number of dogs shot,  
Number of defective sidewalks reported, —.  
Number of defective catch-basins reported.,. )
Number of insane persons cared for, .
Number of notices served,  
Value of stolen property, $  :
Value of property recovered, , 
Amount of money reported stolen,  |
Amount of money recovered, 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT.
Number of women in charge,  
Number of women arrested,  

 THE OFFENCES FOR WHICH THEY WERE ARRESTED ARE AS
FOLLOWS.
Assault and battery,  
Breach of the peace,  
Drunkenness,  
Fornication,.  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Larceny, wo  
Lewd and lascivious co-habitation,  
Night walking, to  
Neglected child, .  
Selling beans by liquid measure, 
Stubbornness, oo. a
Vagrancy, .  
Violation oleomargerine law, 
Detained, to  
Insane, .  
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Committed to the House of Correction,  
Committed to House of Correction, non-payment of fines,  
Committed to the Women’s Reformatory Prison at Sherborn, .  
Committed to the Industrial School for girls, Lancester,  
Committed to the State Board of Charity,  
Diseharged, .  
Fined and paid, . dF

. REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
Probated and discharged,  
Placed on file, toe tk ,
Released, ,  

  +
The work of the Matron does not vary much from year ;
to year. Intemperance always claims large number of victims. |
I wish to thank the Marshal, Superior Officers and the }
members of the force for the courteous treatment and ready
assistance in my work. :
Respectfully submitted, |
KATE MOYNIHAN, Matron. :
THE FOLLOWING IS THE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL
SYSTEM. :
Duty calls from patrolmen, :
Telephone calls,  
Wagon ealls, days, Do,  
. Wagon ealls, nights,  
Miles run, .  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
ee
tn Memoriam PATRICK J. REARDON,
- APPOINTED FEBRUARY .
DIED JUNE ,
HENRY J. CAMPBELL, |
APPOINTED JANUARY :
| DIED AUGUST .
es

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
FINANCIAL REPORT.
Total appropriation, . 
Receipts from Police Court,  
Receipts from Hampden County,  
Receipts from all other sources,  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Payroll, Coe 
Miscellaneous expenses,  
Balance unexpended,.  
$ 
In compliance with provision of the Charter, respect- fully recommend an appropriation for the ensuing year of
$ .
ITEMS. \
Appropriation, Cook 
Estimated receipts,  
$ 
Payroll, . 
Miscellaneous expenses,  
$  .
CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.
Patrolman, Frank J. Gallagher, resigned February  ,
 appointed, January .
Patrolman, Patrick J. Reardon, died June appointed, February .
Patrolman, Henry J. Campbell, died August ,
appointed, January .

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
APPOINTED.

Timothy J. Mannix, appointed patrolman, February  ,
 .

George E. Leary, appointed patrolman, June .

Frederick W. Kuenzel, appointed patrolman, June  ,
 .

William A. Morgan, appointed patrolman, June .

Timothy J. Murphy, appointed patrolman, September  ,
 .

) PROMOTIONS,

Patrolman, Patrick F. Ryan, promoted to Sergeant, June
  .

Patrolman, Maurice M. O’Connor, promoted to Inspector, June .

POLICE SIGNAL SYSTEM.

I wish to again respectfully call the attention of your
Honorable body to the conditions of our signal system. The —
registering of the duty calls is not positive, and rarely day
passes that some part of the service is not out of order. The
poor service of our system has occasioned many unfortunate
delays. earnestly recommend that steps be taken to remedy
its faults at an early date by installing in its place the Gainwell Police Signal Svstem or some other system equally as
good.

PATROL WAGON.

I would also eall your attention to the necessity of having
in readiness at all times Patrol Wagon, which would be capable of aswering emergency calls to all parts of the eity in
the least possible time. The present patrol is drawn by one
horse, and while it has given good service, think the time has
eome when this department should be equipped with an Automobile patrol, the expense of which would not be great, and

  to of PL.
Hi. LY
ae  iki :
He ous a.
ae ears  a
é ne lf  
i  iti
: oe
REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. ae! |
the absolute assurance that you might have sufficient number rt |
of patrolmen in moment’s notice to any part of the city it oP it Te
would be gratifying. he A
A Mere fe eergare
Wi} at. nN oa) ar |
athe ike Ebina |:
CONCLUSION. fe ae ae ‘|
  iA um f
. Leki? RY) WEN wey
In conclusion, beg to express my appreciation of the pial Be Lt
many courtesies extended by his Honor, the Mayor, the Judge bei Rea shoe i
Sebie bet rade b
and Clerk of the Police Court, and the members of this de- ian EY lar {ie "
partment during the year, and to thank them for the consid-se epiedt
.  ... ‘Tos el oe aa, ;
erate attention given to matters pertaining to this depart-ita th.
ment, and for the assistance which they have rendered. ‘e  {
 Respectfully submitted, nol eh Ul k
THOMAS J. LYNCH, City Marshal. aheat
  ORS Fs oma ry te ;
Serre Si?
SARs |i ee
a: x! fit ah ey
ge
vt ve yet if j
ae  Sa nat f
rea
. LAT "?  
‘Re Tae
SSB ty oars We
we ot) Ph Se ee
Noet  seat e
 S" eS Peed
pe “uel
ae BS oh |
“Tate. Gl eae
: W
hu  rae (ii
on Ee ae {|
A Pe phe
Fe fey Yodtl B
Tar iit i
“ fa  
i] |
. “a H
a
fi ou Fe +
me pe ha if if
sell  ih if chit
FF ie oe ata}
i Be te
Fi Y
ABE
: hy Fl
oo) a
Digitized Google rem

REPORT OF THE
City oF HOLYOKE, Mass. !
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen: 
GENTLEMEN: herein submit to you the thirty-seventh
annual report of the City Engineering Department ending
November .
RECEIPTS. .
By appropriation , 
EXPENDITURES.
Salaries of the City Engineer and assistants  
Office supplies, including mounted paper for
making new maps of the city.  
Printing and typewriting  
Car fare, horse hire, traveling expenses, ete.  
Telephone and telegraph. ..  
Typewriter .  
Level rod.  
Engineering periodicals, directory, Kent’s Poeket
 Book, ete...  
Balance unexpended —. HD)
$ 
\

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.

Strange as it may seem, it is nevertheless true that no
summary of the construction account of the works of the city
has ever been kept.

For this reason the Engineering Department has mapped
out comprehensive plan which, when developed, will not only
show the construction account of the works of the city, but
will also show the number of miles of our improved and unimproved streets, including country roads; the number of
miles of curbing, sidewalks and sewers; the type and date of
construction of our bridges; the date of construction and cost
of our school houses and all other buildings owned by the
city. )

In pursuance of this plan considerable time was spent
during the year in measuring and checking on the ground the
total lengths of the roadways and sidewalks of the city, of
which the following is summary:

Country roads   miles
Gravel roads.  ‘!
State highway   ‘*
Macadam roads  
Tar macadam roads   SS
Bitulithie roads   ‘
Granite block roads   ‘
Vitrified brick roads ‘S
Asphalt roads   ‘
Asphalt block roads 
Wood block roads. ‘*
Wooden plank roadway on bridges ‘
Total number of miles.  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
SIDEWALKS.
. Tar concrete.   miles
Brick , “
Cement.  
Asphalt block   ‘
Wood block...   “
Granite block   ‘
Wooden plank walk on bridges. 
Cinders.   “
Gravel   “

Total length of sidewalks  

The work of plotting these measurements and making
accurate maps have also been commenced. These maps are

| being made on scale of feet to an inch, on cloth-mounted
paper, and will show, when finished, not only the widths of
roadways and sidewalks, but will also show the sizes and locations, as far as possible, of sewers, water, gas, telephone, or
any other kind of conduits laid in the streets.

Besides the measuring of the streets and sidewalks, the
history and construction account of the bridges of the city
have also been exhumed from old records. This necessitated
not only patient and careful perusal of the municipal
records, but also those of the County Commissioners and of
the Water Power Company. |

To the latter especially, this department is indebted for
the data relative to those bridges built in the earlier days of
Holyoke by the Water Power Company, which are shown, to’ gether with those built by the city in the following table:

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
TABLE SHOWING THE HISTORY AND CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT OF
THE BRIDGES OF THE CITY.

Name of Bridge Location Built By hi Kind Cost
Appleton  t.......-./Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.)  Metal Not Known
Appleton St.........'Over  nd Level Canal; Town of Holyoke .........; 

Replaced by
Appleton St.........]  ** “. City of Holyoke.........-.|  .)
Bridge St.......-----|  *"  “. Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood Not Known
Replaced by
Bridge Bt.-c  City of Holyoke...........| Metal  
Cabot St.........----, Over Ist Level Canal! Holyoke Wuter Power Co.| Not Known
Cabot St..--..-.----- Over  nd Level Canal| Holyoke Water Power Co., Wood .* *
*Replaccd by
Cabot St.......... City of Holyoke...........| Metal
Cabot  t............. Over  rd Level Canal! Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood .
Replaced by Masonry
Cabot St,..-..-.-....|  ‘City of Holyoke...........|  Arch  
Dwight St. ........../Over  st Level Cana] Holyoke Water Power Co.| Metal Not Known
| Replaced by
Dwight St. ......... City of Holyoke...........! “*  
Dwight St. ........-..,;Over nd Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.! Wood Not Known
Replaced by |
Dwight St..... ....) ‘City of Holyoke...........' Metal  
Jackson  t..........) .“ Holyoke Water Power Co. Wood Not Known
i Replaced by
Jackson  t..........'  City of Holyoke...........!  
Lyman St............'Over  st Level Canal; Holyoke Water Power Co.| Not Known
Replaced by
Lyman St............/  ** City of Holyoke...........| Metal  
Lyman St............/Over nd Level Canal) Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood Not Known
Replaced by
Lyman  t.............  .* Town of Holyoke ........-| Metal  
Main St. ............,Over rd Level Canal! Holyoke Water Power Co.’ Wood Not Known
Replaced by
Main St. ......... ..!)  Town of Holyoke.........|  

. Replaced by
Main St. .............  Town of Holyoke.........| Metal  

; Replaced by
Main St..............  City of Holyoke...........]  

Masonry
Sargeant St.......... Over ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.; Arches Not Known
‘Replaced by |
Sargeant St.......... Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood .
Metal and
Replaced by Reinforced
Sargeant St. ........| City of Holyoke...........!| Concrete  
Sargeant St. ......../Over  nd Level Cana) Holyoke Water Power Co.| Metal Not Known
Dwight St. Foot jOver B.&M.R.R. !
Bridge ............  Tracks ............| City of Holyoke....... ...!  
COUNTY BRIDGES
| Joint Board Hampden
Holyoke and South Over Connecticut ‘and Hampshire County
Had. Falls Bridge River................ Commissioners ...........! Wood  
‘Replaced by Joint Board |
Holyoke and South Over Connecticut ‘Hampden and Hampshire
Had. Falls Bridge River.... ........... County Commissioners... Metal  
Holyoke and Willi--Over Connecticut Hampden County |
mansett Bridge...:River................/Commissioners............|  
| “| |
* Replaced by Old Bridge from Dwight St., Cost Included in New Bridge on Dwight St.
NOTE—Total construction account of bridges to date, ,

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

As will be seen by this table, some of the bridges still in
use were built number of years ago and were certainly not
designed for the heavy traffic which they are subjected to at
the present time. For this reason the older bridges should be
gradually replaced by more modern structures, with the Cabot
Street bridge over the second level canal receiving the attention of the city first.

So far as the condition of the bridges is concerned,
especially in relation to repairs and painting, each bridge in
the city was examined during the year and report made
thereon to the Board of Public Works.

During the year tar macadam was laid on Northampton
street from the old Holyoke-Northampton boundary line to
Kenilworth Castle, or to the beginning of the State Highway;
on Dwight street from School street to Pleasant street, and on
Elm street from Dwight street to Sargeant street. Common
macadam was laid on Commercial street from Sargeant street
to Jackson street.

The method followed in the building of tar macadam
streets in this city is known as the ‘‘penetration method ;”’
that is, the broken stone, except the finishing coats, is first
deposited and rolled in place, after which the tar is spread on
the surface and allowed to penetrate as far as it’ will into the
body of the well-rolled stone. |

Besides the construction of these macadam pavements,
Northampton street from the Springfield road to the old Holyoke-Northampton boundary line; Maple street from Cabot
street to Sargeant street; Pine street from Prospect street to
Hampshire street, and South street from Brown avenue to
Northampton street, have been resurfaced with tar macadam.

The following table shows the length, square yards and

cost of the streets macadamed during the year.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
TABLE SHOWING COSTS OF PAVEMENTS LAID IN  .

Streets Paved phind of Foundation ne  Per Sa.
ore eek eon erat sfecadam Earth og  
oR asant ee. Tar Macadam  
Elm St, from Dwight to Sar aan oe  

|
Morea Pte Btake Highway. Gravel  

For the costs of the streets resurfaced and otherwise repaired, as Well as those tarviaized, you are respectfully referred to the Board of Public Works.

Your engineer wishes to call attention to the importance
that should be given to the setting of stone or other monuments
defining the lengths and boundary lines of all new streets before being accepted by the city. This is of so much importance that it would seem advisable to have an ordinance passed
against the acceptance of any street unless the same is properly
defined by monuments set by the petitioners.

During the year Northampton street was surveyed from
the old Holyoke-Northampton boundary line to Kenilworth
Castle, and stone monuments were set to show the location of
this street as laid out by the old Northampton records. Since
these records are not as complete or specific as thev might be,
it would seem advisable to have the street lines re-established
by the City of Holyoke.

Northampton street from Kenilworth Castle to the Holyoke-Easthampton line at Mt. Tom Junetion, is now state
highway; that part of it left unfinished few vears ago in the
Smith Ferry district having been completed by the State
Highway Commission during the year.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER. |
| CURBING AND SIDEWALKS.

Portland cement sidewalks are becoming more popular
year after year, and it looks now as if they will in time
supercede entirely tar, concrete and brick in this city.

The length, kind and average cost, etc., of the curbing

. and sidewalks laid during the year are shown in the following
table.
CURBING.
a
| Cost ner lineal Total cost
Lenethin Kind ft.delivered laid per
feet. in city lin. ft.
| 
|
  ein, first class |
| granite  -in. second class
granite Cement concrete |Granite circles  
a
SIDEWALKS.
Se (
Length in otal cost
feet Kind Square yards per square
| yard
a
|
  Portland cement !
! conerete  Tar conerete  |

For the location and other details of the curbing and
sidewalks laid you are respectfully referred to the report of
the Board of Publie Works.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
STREETS ACCEPTED BY THE CITY.

While only two streets were accepted by the city during
the year, namely, North Pleasant street and Fairfield avenue,
petitions had been filed for the acceptance of large number
of streets. These streets have been staked out and plans and
profiles made of the same for the Board of Public Works.

STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .
Name of St. From to Length Width
No. Pleasant  feet south of!a point feet north ft.
Street the center line ofl center line of
Yale Street Princeton Street
Fairfield Ave. Nonotuck Street) Northampton Street ft.
| and
ot Ft.
THE ESTABLISHED GRADES OF THE ABOVE NAMED
STREETS ARE AS FOLLOWS.
a nn ne
Name of Street Grade
No. Pleasant St.| At point ft. south of central line of
Yale St. wo...           
No. Pleasant St.| At intersection of the central line of Yale St}  
No. Pleasant St.}| At intersection of the central line of DartMOUTH Lo...           
No. Pleasant St.| At intersection of the central line of HarvVard St. Lo.         
No. Pleasant St.} At intersection of the central line of Amherst
Sto  ete         ed  
No. Pleasant St. At intersection of the central line of Stan; ford St. oo.              
No. Pleasant St.| At intersection of the central line of Princeton St. woe  ce        
No. Pleasant St.| At point ft. north of center line of
| Princeton St. oo...     
Fairfield Ave. At center line of Nonotuck St. ............ 
Fairtield Ave. At poimt ft. w. of center line of
 Nonotuck St.  ... ......        
Fairfield Ave. At point ft. w. of center line of Nono tick Sto...  ee 
Fairfield Ave. At the center line of Northampton St......./  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
RE-NUMBERING OF STREETS.  By order of the Board of Aldermen the following streets
have been re-numbered by this department: Canby street,
Columbus avenue, Davis street, Division street, Forestdale
avenue, Gates street, Ingleside street, Longwood avenue, Mor- |
gan street (west end), Northampton ‘street, North Pleasant |
street, Samosett street, Springdale avenue, Suffolk street
(east end), Waldo street and the Westfield road.

Besides the re-numbering of the above streets, numbers
have been assigned to all the new buildings erected during the

year. .
SEWERS.

The total length of the sewerage system of the city with
the sewers ranging in size from inches to feet in diameter,
was to the end of last year miles, while the total cost of
the system was .

The total length of sewers laid this year was miles
at total cost of This makes the total length of
our sewer system to date, miles and the total cost
$ .

While the length and cost of our sewer system was compiled with great deal of industry last year, involving a
tedious and patient investigation of both the municipal and
town records back to  yet some of the sewers mentioned
in these records were neither sufficiently described or mapped
so that they could be properly located in the ground. In
order, therefore, to obtain proper record of the location and
depth of these sewers, it would seem advisable for the Board
of Publie Works to have them uncovered at certain points so
that the data necessary for their alignments and profiles can
be obtained by this department.

Now that Northampton street from point near Morrill
avenue to the Castle, also River Terrace, Wyckoff avenue and
Highland avenue, are all sewered and comprise one system,

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
which is at the present time discharging mto the Heywood
Brook, so-called, at point near the B. M. R. R., this system should be extended and discharged into the Connecticut
river the coming year.

The Franklin street storm sewer should also be extended
as recommended in the City Engineer’s report of last year.
For the location, size, length, cost and other details of
the sewers built during the year, see the following table.
e

:  w- @. ot :
| a:  oy) es mn ae  mn m
g  be af @
@  .
|  CO  OSE SESE So Oo
f ho Sf Be te teete  

#  Ft BE
Sef EM
es o) es 
Za  St
a
 e
Bs gs ss  *s $F $
aj Se
a ae ara
g  og:  @: B: gH Goa:
LS S: Ss -: @:e- ao-a@:  rw a
'  wm eo od rr} Dao  As) So Ox  bug Ee ue
a B§S# cfce ay Eg
— mn ff Oh GH FF SRT HOHS Ms FT BO

ee
i gd)  
S aes   
Se n'a Nn
 oo
z, &£
—  ad ad  $.lh—CtéCSS oe .
g Hf FEE pos
ES 
a  wei eg Es abs iba: gob:  fed:
aSU:  E:s iu  Yes ies:
-“eo: ek et —etee} “ee a:
  Re: zo: KE si e: ES gen agh ine |
fz) Pas  e: ge Bas g& OE er
  eon! ener, azul Gen ie Vg
S B’ ae Ve weg  S" cet eko
fa Qxz Bz, F: BgRFe TRAE Faeeais
Se  Beb G
a) ip ips: Do oips ‘Sai |
ae QS: :Bg :Fa: B@: Os :
SG: Bio isgiseig gio, Pe:
:  Noo SNe:
  Ba Oo:  gh  OE: BES Og
. om  oe Y
e og, gi. Bo geiBee  cats sess
fen  Soe"se  rf boue een 
| Gig “i BRFS Fe we ge See ae
,  Re S re gece Tes G
.Oe SE
 a.  GK -M. §& QM. M.- .
 SESS: Ble: ot ae: ae
g S'Sem:  £: g: €:
  Sese £:  &:
/  eg otpStg FS: Si yim; Sirs Sper Ss:
ey  ER asop  FRt  Sdho Sd  at FF ecge og Xe pete Hgeg  Hg  
| Ba mesraz Ao Fa RAR Asa fa Aa RA
: pos  S:  Ot 
‘Mos ND wow fF: (ot Og
: eo .: RMw--  .
 Sos eal gic: cs} ca wm @y Seat. .
| HB ft BS ££ SF
  Zonet Ff EGEf SEES FS we &
FE: ese Ss @a@  BtS  §&  
S  ge rere  

:  og to! :
: @f  oo
A em r-) azn )
-) fe ae  -o ap OB §€ SO Oas §
E ge Be gi wo weet &
ees @f  Ba B
  XE Va) nx  —)
cae :
Zak :
ao  
Beg gw &&  HF  .
a*  
a  |} :: GBR:
ts a. Se. oo:  :
  “i cs GdCGE g
sn  Bee §
a rx  FF GS Bn 
| eS Sor
- ad
  *
s *
a es fF gf  ge »
 
a oe
[| 
S.   :
@ s
“ a
Zz RI gS :Ss Seg Ss Se SRA SES
 BO em og: SB  a.
& ig if FSB AE RM:
md BES TT we sw ge ide:
  wg  OSS im go ig” (Se BS n:
eOO Ne Sa GhS |
m Ca gate Ee agate  
fea o- saeaae aE ESE se
@ gc EG BR eS ER ke Bee Ae ge
&)  tui See edBezauiadn&  “@: Saco: otf @:; @: #@:: .
  “E:  || 
TD "sg  pe 
| Ag es Me g
E on  mo 
si ace fag 
as ie be P) as  ”. TS
| nf Oo qt eg EF os
j—s|  jf 
| BSekSseg Ai Biel el ai gigi  
a Zend ta! Ig: 
®  ages :g@: &: 
| Bbee EE g:  
: GR a. &. &: ae
bn] Sow Teoa  as et. le
I aceab eck sg egeg Hg Ag ogee xg &
| asSréis eg ae
| gigi €£$: i, ig 
Jog  Se #oi  ai gs
|  @@ Ems:  
A x:  i) So-  Co
 id  Beto  
@ Ee: Bb: RP #ige ee
—|  gS.
 NN ‘
  Fe .

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
ASSESSORS’ MAPS.

The maps that were made for the Assessors number of
years ago included only that part of the city lying between
Northampton street and the Connecticut river.

Since these maps were made, property west of Northampton street and throughout all of the suburban districts has
considerably increased in value, so that it  now both economie and advisable to have Assessors’ maps made of the whole
territory of Holyoke, and especially that portion of North- |
ampton annexed to Holyoke last year.

For this reason, with the co-operation of the Board of
Assessors, this department had early in the year commenced
the work of compiling, surveying and mapping each individual lot and farm, not already mapped within the boundary
lines of the City of Tolyoke.

Although the time given to this work was in the late
winter, number of lots and farms were surveyed, compiled

. and mapped, and amounted to total area of over  
aeres. The work will be resumed again this winter and eontinued through the early spring, when it is expected that a
considerably greater acreage will be surveyed, compiled and
mapped than was done last. winter.
PLAYGROUNDS.

The new Playgrounds adopted by the city have added
considerable to the work of this department.

During the vear book of maps of the school erounds
with the plans of the school buildings shown thereon, and
eousisting of twenty maps im all, drawn to scale of feet to
an inch, have been made for the Playground Commission. Besides this work, exhibition maps, eross-seetions and study
sketches have been made of the playgrounds, also designs
made and stakes set for all grading, tree-planting, terracing.
baseball diamonds, wading pool, skating rink, running track,
and all other developments requiring the skill of the Engineering Department. |

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
LIGHTING DEPARTMENT AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Plans were prepared for the foundations of the boilers
installed in the Electrie Light Boiler House and also for the
erection of tar tank at the gas plant for the use of the
Board of Public Works.

Plans and specifications were prepared for newloekers
at the High School, and an estimate made of new boiler
house, new barn, extension to laundry, extension to dining
room and repairs on the administratiion building at the City
Farm. |

WATER DEPARTMIENT. oo,

This is the third consecutive dry season in this section of
the country. The records of the Fomer water shed show that
the total vield from the first of July to the first of November
is twenty per cent less than the total vield in the same period
last vear, and forty per cent less than the total yield in the
same period in  ,

While the drought last. year and the year before praetically ended in the month of December, it looks now from
present indieations, with the cold weather freezing up the
ground and streamlets, as if the drought mav extend through
the Winter and into the early Spring. Should this oecur, it
will plaee many of the water supphes in this part of the
country In eritical condition and water famines will be the
rule and not the exception.

It wiil also prove the truth of the analysis made by your
engineer in his report to the Water Commissioners, in  ,
relative to the time when new storage reservoir would be
needed, and also show the wisdom of the Water Commissioners In obtaining the necessary permission from the Legislature of to borrow capital to build this reservoir.

The present condition of our reservoirs would not, however, be so low were it not for the unavoidable turminge off
and wasting of the vield of the Fomer water shed between the

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.

 th of August and the  th of December. The loss of this
water amounted to  of gallons and was occasioned
by supposed typhoid fever outbreak in lumber camp |loeated on the Fomer water shed.

During this supposed outbreak of typhoid, besides the.
wasting of the Fomer supply and the cutting off from the
distribution system of the Hith Service Reservoir, into which
the Fomer water was being discharged when the outbreak
occurred, every other possible precaution was taken by the
Board of Water Commissioners to confine the outbreak to the
narrowest limits and stamp it out as soon as possible.

Mr. Kirkpatrick, the Superintendent of the Water Works,
and your engineer were instructed by the Board to give the
matter their personal attention. bn the investigation conducted by them, both chemical and bacteriological tests were

. made of the waters in the neighborhood in which the supposed

| typhoid occurred, in search of those indicators, especially
the germ Bacillis Coli, that point out the possibility of typhoid
germs being in the water.

Although there were over one hundred bacteriological
tests made, it was gratifying to find that all of them, one
after another, gave negative results.

This was an occasion indeed when the. chemical and
bacteriological laboratory established by your engineer proved,
from practical standpoint, invaluable.

The usual microscopical examinations of the water in the
different reservoirs were recularly made, and the Water Department notified when organisms were found that were
likely to beeome troublesome later by producing odor and
taste, thus enabling the Water Department to be prepared beforehand to meet such conditions.

Surveys have been made for the new proposed reservoir
at Fomer, and studies and computations relative to the type
and height of dam to be built. are now under way.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.  
, PARKS.

Plans and specifications of the extension of Prospeet
‘Park conerete terrace wall were prepared by this department
in the Spring, and the contract for doing the work was let by
the Board of Park Commissioners to Kennedy Salter, who
have completed the contract.

The length of wall constructed was lineal feet, including two balustradal lookouts, fifty feet each in length.

The total cost of the wall, not including the excavation
for foundations, was  or  per lineal foot. Of
this the foundations cost  per lineal foot, and the neat
wall or super-structure, including the lookouts,  per
lineal foot.

Besides the engineering work done on this wall, plans and
cross-sections were made of Hampden and Prospect parks.

| DRAWINGS.

All maps, plans, profiles and sketches made during the
year have been indexed and placed on file in this department.
STATISTICS.

The following is table of the statistics of the City of
Holyoke, compiled and brought up to date: .
Population May U. S. census.  
Population City of Holyoke, School census.

| Population, May Water Works

census,  
Number of voters oo,  
Number of polls.  
Publie school enrollment, day  
Publie school enrollment, night —.  
Parochial school enrollment.  
Area of city   sq. miles
Greatest extent east and west miles

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER.
Greatest extent north and south —. miles
Area of school property woo. sq. feet
Area of city parks   aeres
Area of City Hall and city yard lots. acres
Area of Contazeous Hospital land acres
Area of City Farm, Loomis lot, Allen lot, gravel

bank on Springfield Road, ete. acres
Area of Fire Department property sq. feet
Area of Municipal Lighting property —. sq. feet
Country -roads   miles
State Highway miles
City streets accepted —. miles
City streets unapted ).  miles
Sheet asphalt pavement miles
Asphalt block pavement miles
Granite block pavement miles
Vitrified brick pavement —. miles
Bituhithie pavement —. miles
Wood block pavement   miles
Macadam pavement miles
Streets watered   miles
Sidewalks and crossings miles
Water mains  -inch and upwards in diameter miles
Gas mains   niles
Sewers  , miles
River front.   miles
Steam railroad, locations miles
Electric railroads, locations —. miles
Electric Light and Power eireuits (municipal) miles
Electrie are street lights  
Klectme meandeseent Hehts —.  
Railroad stations oo,  
Churches  
School houses.  
Business eollewes  
Dwelling houses —.  


