MUNICIPAL REGISTER
OF THE
FOR  ]
Containing the Mayor's Address
City Government Roster
Annual Reports
Etc.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SEE D
o—
eM aorety
an oo”
M. J. DoYLe PRINTING oo.
HOLYOKE, Mass.
 
a

|

|

|

|

|

| |
|

CONTENTS.

Mayor’s Address,  

City Government,   
Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen,  

City Officers, |
Election Officers,  
Report of Board of Water Commissioners,  
Report of School Department,  
Report of Gas and Electric Department,  

 Report of Playground Commissioners,  
Report of Fire Commissioners,  
Report of Department of Police, 
Report of City Engineer,  
Report of City Solicitor,  
Report of Sinking Fund Commissioners, 
Report of Board of Assessors,  
Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures, 
Report of Overseers of the Poor, 
Report of City Treasurer, 

— Report of the Board of Park Commissioners,  
Report of Board of Public Works,  ...  
Report of Board of Health,.  
Report of City Auditor,  
Yury List for  we  B
City Officers, O 
Ordinances, BAB

 ARBSL
Dp an

Digitized by Google

Inaugural Address
OF
Mayor of Holyoke, Mass.
EIRIA 
ode
eaters
Seine SY
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND TWELVE.

a

P  a
re Fe
eo ‘
  \
JOHN J. WHITE, MAYOR. ss

Digitized by Google

MAYOR’S ADDRESS

To the Honorable, the Board of Aldermen:—
FINANCES. .

The great problem of all cities today  ‘‘How to live
within an income based on fair and just tax rate.’’ Our
city is extremely fortunate in that its finances have been so
ably handled in the past twelve years that we have not only
enjoved just and fair tax rate but have been able at all
times to meet our obligations promptly, and this is reputation that we should do all in our power to maintain.

The past year has been one of great activity in all departments and much needed work has ‘been done in permanent improvements of our streets and public buildings.

Despite all this activity we closed the year with all bills :
paid and good balance left to apply to next year’s appropriation.

The fact that we have balance over this year must
not be taken as an indication that we are overburdened with
money for the coming year, for as ‘a matter of fact, it will
require continuation of the past year of economy to enable to get us through this year and meet our obligations in
‘“‘Holvoke’s way.’’

We shall be obliged to add to our police foree and have
also two new school] houses to maintain, and the added expense of our new Tubereulosis hospital. The new law compelling cities to pay expenses of primaries has added also
to our burdens, and it will require most careful and vigorous methods to retain our present tax rate of ,

The net debt of the city, exclusive of gas and ecleetrie
and water departments, is .

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS

The borrowing capacity of the city is at the present
time Our borrowing capacity has been reduced
materially in the past vear by the loans made for new school
houses, new storage reservoir, and for the large amount of
permanent improvements on our streets, and for bridges.
We still have some of this money on hand for work which
we found it impossible to do this year, but it will be done
as soon as the new season opens.

The valuation of our public buildings today amounts to
$ and if we were to include all the furnishings in
these buildings, together with the fire department equipments, it would bring this valuation up practically quarter of million dollars more.

Place against this valuation ‘the net debt of the city of
$ and Holvoke stands in the front rank as finanerally sound municipality.

The past year has proven that Holyoke can be run with
a tax rate of and there is no reason why we cannot
do the same this year.

Next to sound financial policy, ‘a gationary tax rate
is one of the best assets city can have, and it willbe for
us to preserve ‘both.

SCHOOLS.

Almost one-fifth of our entire appropriation is taken up
to maintain our schools, and we have mght to expect the
very highest results, and believe our schools compare
favorably with those of other cities. |

I am still of the impression that we are subject to that
extremely contagious educational disease commonly termed
‘‘Wads,’’ and would caution those in authority to eliminate
these as far as practical and possible. Harmony in all departments is an essential feature towards their success, and
the only ripple that has been made pronouncedly plain, has
been the rumored attempts to repeal the rule whereby the

MAYOR’S ADDRESS II
Superintendent was given absolute power to appoint or reJect all applicants for positions as teachers. would recommend to the school board that there be nominating
committee of five to consist of the superintendent, the chairman of the board and three principals of schools, to be
elected by the board, these five to pass upon the qualifications of all applicants and majority vote to deeide. In
this way we would have at all times the judgment of at
least four practical educators and it seems to me that the
adoption of this rule would be met by all as most fair way
out of what seems to be serious problem.
POLICE DEPARTMENT.

It is not my desire here to criticise this department as
a whole. But my year as mayor has taught me that there
is need of stringent measures along some lines; more particularly as to what constitutes the duties of police officer.

One of the most if not the most important duty is to
protect life and property, and this cannot be accomplished
by sitting in lunch rooms or other warm places.

We have many good officers on our force. regret to
have to say that we have some who are not so good, and I
give warning here that any officer who is brought before
me for neglect of duty, while am mayor, can expect nothing
less than dismissal from the force if the charges are proven.

Petty grievances and jJealousies must be eliminated, as
in my opinion it seriously handicaps the efficiency of the
department.

A perusal of the annual report of this department will
show that we have been especially free from any serious
crimes and while we have had some burglaries that the
amount of property and money recovered made the actual
net losses very small.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS
GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

This department continues to grow and prosper and the
wisdom of municipal ownership along these lines is very
pronounced.

Early in the year shall reeommend to your honorable
board loan to provide for alterations and new equipment
at the gas plant, which will eventually give us net price
of eighty cents per thousand feet for gas.

The seale of discounts on electricity hope in the near
future to see changed so as to prowide more equitable
scale between the minimum and maximum consumer. It
is question whether it  paying proposition to furnish
electricity for power at one and three-tenths cents per kilowatt, and this is something that it will do no harm to investigate.

A start towards placing wires underground has been
made on Railroad street and an inspection of this street. will
make friends for the underground system of all wires.

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. |

It is impossible to enumerate here all the much needed
improvements that have ‘been made in our streets and publie
buildings, and we will be eontent to give few of the most
important.

Railroad street has been laid out and completed and
stands as monument to both the board and the contraetor.
The opening of this street will do much toward eliminating
the congestion of traffic at the corner of Dwight and High
streets. The new overhead bridge at South Main street will
soon ‘be finished and will add materially to the looks of that

 locality.

The building of the Joseph Metvalf school will remedy
the conditions in this district, and the practically building
over of the East Dwight street school at very reasonable
cost not only removes an eve sore in that district but gives

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
us one of the best school buildings in the city. The Tuberculosis hospital has been completed and will be in use in very short ‘time.

A large loan for permanent street work was made during the year and am still of the conviction that permanent
work  the cheapest in the long run.

Our new superintendent of streets took hold of his
duties in an efficient and practical manner and would
recommend careful perusal of the report of the board
when printed.

WATER DEPARTMENT.

Although this department  ‘partly an outside institution of our municipality am obliged to come in contact
with its business frequently, and it is pleasure for me to
testify to the splendid business methods that prevail in this
department.

The past vear has been busy one, the construction of
the new storage reservoir claiming large share of attention
from the board.

The work on the reservoir has progressed satisfactorily
and if the weather is favorable the contractor should be
able to very nearly complete his contract within the specified time, and will at least be well enough advanced so the
gates can be closed and thus store whatever surplus water
the brook is likely to deliver this winter and the coming
spring. |

A large force of men have been given employment during the past few months, which has had its effeet on the
general ‘business of the city.

The improvements at the Whiting Street reservoir are
very noticeable and are step in the right direction.

Although the commissioners were compelled to place
restrictions on the use of water during the recent dry spell,
the receipts were 'a little more than the previous year.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS

With the completion of the new reservoir Holyoke will
be able to claim the reputation of having the best water
system in the country.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

No city can boast of better or more efficient fire department than we have, and this is testified to by the actual
net fire loss, as contained in the report which was submitted
by the fire commissioners.

We have been very generous in the matter of providing
modern fire fighting equipments, and our last purchase
consisted of two aerial trucks which will add materially to
the efficiency of the department.

I am of the opinion that the rates for insurance in our
city are not what we should enjoy, considering our generosity in equipping our department, and hope to see more
equitable rate here in the near future.

Recommendations have been made that our engine
houses be remodelled so as to provide separate sleeping
rooms for the men, and this is matter that will undoubtedly receive favorable action.

The long time agitation for the removal of the fire
headquarters from High street is still alive and steps ought
to be taken this year to do this.

PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.

While other cities have more park area than we have,
there are few of them but what have been the recipients
of bequests from public spirited citizens either in the way
of money or land given, and Holyoke has been compelled
to pay for all the park properties we own, and while would
like to see more of these beauty spots in our city, we should
rejoice that we are as well equipped as we are.

Playgrounds are in sense parks. The law compels
their being maintained and we must comply. As result,

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
we were obliged to cut the appropriation asked for parks
last year materially and give to playgrounds instead. This
vear the park board asks for an appropriation to enable
them to finish several important projects, and these should
have our best consideration. The playgrounds have now
passed the experimental stage, and we ought to be able to
lovk for still better results, and at much less cost. There
has been some criticism on the employment of so many instructors, and this will take up with the commission previous to their appropriation being granted.

BOARD OF HEALTH.

There has been marked improvement in the manner
in which the work of ‘this department has been done. Complaints have been promptly investigated and attended to,
and this is as it should be, for this is the board to which we
look for the health of the public. There is still room for
more improvements, and the comug year will undoubtedly
see them.

The opening of the new Tuberculosis hospital, which
will be under the charge of this board, will mean decided
improvement in the matter of taking care of this dread
disease.

RELIEF DEPARTMENT.

The poor we will always have with us, and the report
of this department shows that they are on the increase
rather than deereasing. The total expense of this department the past year was an inerease over last
year of .

The demands of this department are many and varied
and it requires pretty good judge of human nature to
properly apportion the fund appropriated for the needy poor
of our city.

; MAYOR’S ADDRESS

The new almoner has performed his duties under the
direction and control of the oversers of the poor in very
commendable manner.

MILK STATION.

During the year we established, as an experiment, a-
modified milk station, and ‘the results were so satisfactory
that have no hesitation in recommending its continuation
as permanent institution. would, however, recommend
that the ladies forming this association become incorporated,
similar to the pubhe hbrary, and conduct the station in
much the same way as the library, and the city grant them
an annual appropriation for its maintenance.

ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.

For new man to assume the duties as head of this de-.
partment and accomplish the vast amount of work that has
been accomplished this year speaks volumes.  perusal of
the detailed statement of the work accomplished will tend
to show that this department has been one of the active
forces of the year.

CITY SOLICITOR. |

There has been no important litigation this vear, and
aside from the cases for land damages at the new reservoir
we ‘have had only the usual claims for small amounts.

TAX COLLECTOR.

Our tax collector has proven himself the right man in
the right place and the business of this department has been
transacted in an able manner. ;

BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
This board continues to prove its efficiency and no critiMAYOR’S ADDRESS  
cisms have been made of the manner in which they conduct
their department.

They have been just to the property owner, and just
to the city. )

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

When this office was first created we were given to understand that its receipts would cover its expenses. This
has not proven true and would recommend that this department be re-established on more sound basis if it can
be done legally. "

AUDITOR AND TREASURER.

Both these departments continue to do their work efficiently and well. All bills show their history and all payments are made in proper form and vouchers preserved for
easy reference.

CONCLUSION.

Gentlemen—The last election demonstrated the fact
that this is non-partisan government. Let us administrate
at all times in non-partisan spirit for it was as such that
we were all elected.

JOIN J. WHITE, Mayor.

OF THE |
MAYOR.
HON. JOHN J. WHITE.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
ISRAEL DUCHARME.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN
(FOR ONE YEAR.)
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH, EMIL F. DREICORN,
SAMUEL BUTCHER, ISRAEL DUCHARME,
ALFRED F. COUSINEAU, DANIEL F. SHEA,
HENRY F. TILORPE.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN
(KOR TWO YEARS.)
HERBERT E. AINLEY, WILLIAM G. CANTIN,
ALBERT ARCHAMBAULT, FREDERICK CHILDS,
JOIIN P. BLEASIUS. JAMES E. CREAN,
JOHN STALKER.

CITY OFFICERS  g
MEMBERS OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN BY WARDS. |
Ward  —LOUIS E. EMERY.
Ward  —ULRIC BLANCHARD.
Ward  —JOSEPH M. TOEPFERT.
Ward JAMES P. ROHAN. }
Ward  —MICHAEL J. GLEASON. 
Ward  —JAMES T. CAHILL.
Ward  —WILLIAM L. FOOTE.
CITY CLERK.
JOHN F. SHEEHAN.
| CITY MESSENGER.
WILLIAM T. WALSH.
CLERK OF COMMITTEES.
| JOHN C. DORAN.
a ts 

Standing Committees
OF THE |
BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
Finance.— Aldermen Dreivorn, Childs, Bosworth.
Ordinances.— Aldermen Childs, Cantin, Dreicorn, Fvote,
Shea.
Claims.— Aldermen Cousineau, Stalker, Toepfert, Foote,
Crean.
Street Franchises—Aldermen Cantin, Childs, Foote,
Rohan, Bosworth.
Rules.— Aldermen ‘Blanchard, Dreicorn, Emery, Crean,
Shea. |
Licenses.— Aldermen Butcher, Foote, Cousineau, Blanehard, Stalker.
State and Military Aid and Soldiers’ Relief.— Aldermen
Toepfert, Cousineau, Shea, Rohan, Bosworth.
Enrollment.— Aldermen Emery, Crean. Childs, Rohan,
Cousineaun.
Municipal Lighting.—Aldermen Stalker, Bleasius, Butcher. Blanchard. Bosworth.
River Navigation, Trades and Industries.—Aldermen
Bleasius, Ainley, Gleason, Archambault. Cahill.
Education.—Aldermen Thorpe, Ainley, Gleason, Archambault. Cahill.

CITY OFFICERS.
OITY TREASURER.
Pierre Bonvouloir, Office, Room,  City Hall
Elected annually at the Municipal Election.
CITY AUDITOR.
Daniel W. Kenney,  Office, City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.
Patrick J. Kennedy, Office, Commercial street
Appointed annually by the Board of Public Works.
CITY ENGINEER.
Timothy J. MaeCarthy,  Office, City Hall
Appointed every three years by the Mayor.
CITY SOLICTTOR.
Thomas J. O’Connor, Office, Dwight street
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
CITY PHYSICIAN.
George J. Hebert, M. D., Office, Ely street
Elected annually ‘by the Board of Aldermen.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
William H. Snow.
Appointed annually by the Mayor.

  CITY OFFICERS
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term Expires  
Adelard M. Potvin, Term Expires  
James A. Allen, Term Expires  
Timothy J. MacCarthy, Clerk. Osear C. Ferry, Ass’t Clerk.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor.
ASSESSORS OF TAXES.
Joseph J. Kelly, Chairman, Term Expires  
William G. Beaudro, Term Expires  
Jeremiah J. Keane, Secretary, Term Expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
| COLLEOTOR OF TAXES.
James M. Kennedy,  Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
DEPUTY OCOLLECTOR OF TAXES. |
Frank A. McCabe.
Appointed by Collector of Taxes.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIO BULLDINGS.
Frank O’Oonnell,  .
Appointed by the Mayor. .
| OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Patrick J. Dowd, Chairman, Term Expires  
Henry Baush, Term Expires rf
William J. Dillon, Secretary, Term Expires J
John J. Byrnes, Almoner,  .
Elected by the Board of Aldermen. ?

CITY OFFICERS  
BOARD OF HEALTH.
Maurice Lynch, John J. Carroll, M. D.,  
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer,  
Appointed by the Mayor.
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Philip M. Judd, Chairman, Term Expires  
James H. O’Connell, Term Expires  
George C. Robert, Term Expires  
Appointed by the Mayor.
John Hildreth, Secretary.
LIOENSING BOARD.
Dwight H. Ives, Term Expires  
vichae J. Bowler, Term Expires  
asper Ranger, Chairman and Sec’y, Term Expires  
Fred Killian, Clerk.
INSPROTOR OF MEATS AND PROVISIONS.
John M. Carlon. .
Appointed by the Board of Health.
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
Anno: William C. Van Tassell.
Pointed annually by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Board of Aldermen.
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. OO.
ved A. Monat John J. O’Neill
atin J. Leary Matthew B. Begley
Thomas A. Bray
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
 

  CITY OFFICERS
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
Joseph D. Goddu.
Civil Service.
INSPECTOR OF MILK.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
Appointed by Board of Health.
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Lorenzo A. Williston, Chairman, Term Expires May 
William I. Morse, Term Expires May 
Patrick J. Collins, Term Expires May 
William A. Matthes, Term Expires May 
Joseph Laliberte, Term Expires May 
Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.

Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Aldermen.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.

James J. Dunn, Term Expires April 
Charles J. Perry Term Expires April 
Alexander J. Therrien, Term Expires April 
Appointed ‘by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen.

John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.

Hon. John J. White, Mayor, ex-officio.

Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-officio.

Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term Expires Mareh 

Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term Expires March 

Mrs. John J. Prew, Term Expires March d
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

 CITY OFFICERS  
WATER COMMISSIONERS.

Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman, Term expjres  

Thomas J. Lynch, Treasurer, Term expires  

Jesse E. Sheldon, Secretary, Term expires  

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
WATER REGISTRAR.

Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room  City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

John J. Kirkpatrick, Office, Commercial street,
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners. :
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH,

Thomas F. Monaghan. .
Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds.)

Harry J. Bardwell, Term Expires  

Stephen A. Mahoney Term Expires  

Thomas J. Gibson, Term Expires  

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
BOARD OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

, Nathan P. Avery, Chairman, Term expires |
Mrs. James A. Allen, Seeretary, Term expires  
William J. Howes, Term expires  
Louis A. Lafrance, Term expires  
Archibald A. Brooks, Term expires  
Mary EB. Hussey, Term expires  

  CITY OFFICERS 
Mrs. William G. Dwight, Term expires  
Frank B. Towne, Term expires  
Martin P. Conway, Term expires  
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
Marshal, Thomas J. Lynch
Appointed annually by the Mayor.

Assistant Marshal, Patrick Herbert
Captain, Timothy Haley
Lieutenant, Patrick E. Sullivan

INSPECTORS OF POLICE. ,
Peter A. Cullen Frank R. Metcalf

Maurice M. O’Connor.

SEPRGHANTS OF POLICE.
Dennis Mack William E. Blackmer
George L. Dickinson John J. Moriarty

Patrick F. Ryan
PATROLMEN.

Michael Shine William Carey
Richard Peters Michael Driscoll
Thomas F. Riley Peter J. Manning
Francis M. Hastings Patrick J. Kennedy
John A. Powers Edward F. Gilday
John A. Geran Patrick J. Driscoll
Cornelius Curran Thomas J. Rourke
James B. Griffin Patrick J. Gaughan
Jeremiah J. Linnehan Andre J. Seney
Walter J. Murray John J. O’Donnell
James E. Malcolm John J. Grady

CITY OFFICERS  
John A. Vachon Medrie H. Beloin
Henry M. Fisher John E. Goss
Albert Mew John J. Austin
Maxwell McDowell Michael J. Fogarty
James T. Welch Timothy J. Mannix
Henry Sussenguth, dr. George E. Leary
Michael J. Clifford Frederick W. Kuenzel
Michael P. Conroy William A. Morgan
George W. O’Connell Timothy J. Murphy
Michael J. Prendergast Michael J. Walsh
Michael J. Lynch Joseph A. Landry
James T. Donoghue Michael J. Herlihy
Rock H. Lalonde James J. Tisdale
Thomas Bresnahan John T. Quinn 
Maurice H. Shine Albert M. Alben
Daniel C. McCarthy Garrett Bowler
Richard E. Lowecock Patrick J. Falvey
PATROLMEN RETIRED ON PENSION.
John A. Davis Cornelius J. Louney
LOOKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.
RESERVE FORCE OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
William C. Bessett, Bowers street.
James J. Fitzgerald, Maple street. |
Thomas F. E. Powers, Whiting avenue.
Arthur E. Standen, Wolcott street.
Joseph P. Kane, Jackson street
George Hickson, Lyman street ,
Patrick J. Sullivan, Plymouth place
Joseph A. Champagne, Nonotuck street
Roger P. Coffey, Lyman street.

  CITY WFFICERS

Michael J. Ginley, North East street.

Edward H. Ashe, High street.

Archibald R. C. Fletcher, High street.

John F. Moriarty, High street.

Charles G. Leonard, Lyman street.

SPECIAL POLICEMEN.

Anderson, Conrad, Whiting Farm.

Allair, Napoleon, Park street.

Arent, Stanley A., So. Canal street.

Avery, Frank L., Hampshire street.

Axmann, Joseph, Meadow street. ;

Baker, Michael J., Bh street. —

‘Bartlett, Frederick G., Cabot street "

Bock, Carl F., Elliot street. ,

Brigham, Elisha N., Morgan street

Bunyan, John, Maple street. |

Beaton, John, Hampden street. :

Bellerose, Albert, Ely court. ,

Bell, John H., Cottage avenue.

Benoit, Toussaint, Mosher street. .

‘Buchanan, John, Hampshire street. :

Berry, George W., Bh street. .

Cadieux, Edward, Brown avenue. .

Capen, Auburn P., Linden street. A

Cavanaugh Jeremiah J., Newton place.  

Coe, Emerson C., Carlton street.  

Connor, Dennis. So. Summer street.

Corriveau, Joseph A., Center street. q

Coulombe, Pierre, Hainilton street. a

Cronin, Daniel S., Samosett street. q

Clifford, Patrick J.. Center street.  

Conway, Patrick J., Elm street. ie

Connor, Charles F.. Walnut street. 

Connell, Joseph J., Dwight street.  

CITY OFFICERS  
Collins, Timothy D., No. Bridge street.
Carrigan, Felix, Mosher street.
Cote, Joseph, ‘Park street.
Dugas, George H., High street.
Daley, John J., Suffolk street.
Dempsey, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Devitt, John, So. Bridge street.
Dickingon, John C., Carew street, So. Hadley Falls.
Doran, John ‘C., Walnut street. |
Doyle, Thomas W., Hampden street.
Duhaime, Joseph, So. Canal street.
Durocher, Alfred D., Jr., Sargeant street.
Duval, Napoleon, Bond street.
Dobbs, Ira, Nonotuck street.
Duclos, Alphonse, Hamilton street.
Dupuis, Edmond, Southampton, Mass.
Donoghue, Michael, ‘Pine street.
Eger, Paul C., Park street.
Emery, Arthur, Center street.
Evans, Charles R., Grover street. :
Emery, Napoleon ‘B., Bowers street.
Ezold, Emil B., Vernon street.
Falvey, Timothy, Pine street.
Finn, Martin. No. East street.
Fontaine, Hermenegilde, Sargeant street.
Fitzgerald, Martin, Lyman street.
Foley, M. J., Laurel street.
Fortin, Louis, Sargeant street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick J., Pleasant street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick, Bh street.
Gallivan, Bartholomew, Elm street.
Geran, Patrick, Bh street.
Geissler, Carl F., Park street.
Gordon, Henry, Maple street.
Goddu, Joseph D., Prospect street.
Goodrich, ‘Charles H., Grover street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Grandehamp, Charles, So. Summer street.
Gehan, Thomas J., Dwight street.
Griffin, Patrick J., High street.
Griffin, Philip, Pine street.
Gallagher, Thomas E., Dwight street.
Griffin, Richard, Chestnut street.
Haley, Cornelius J., Easthampton road.
Haley, Michael J., Easthampton Road, R. F. D.,  -A.
Hanley, John C., Pine street.
Henderson, James, Chestnut street.
Hennessy, James,  Pine street.

Hills, George F., West street.

Hurlburt, Arthur P., Park street.

Houle, Albert, Park street.

Harris, Joseph, No. Bridge street.

Ingram, Parker N., St. James street.

Johnson, Isaac, Franklin street.

Kane, Hugh, Elm street.

Kelly, Thomas J., Rock Valley.
Kennedy, John J., Pine street.

* Kennedy, Maurice, Elm street.
Kiely, John, Essex street.

Kingsley Philip, Dwight street.

. Klopfer, Frank E., Southampton road.
Kerin, Michael, Lyman street. |
Lake, A'aron W., Smith’s Ferry.

Lamb, James, Essex street.

Lamont James, Longwood avenue.
Lachapelle Godfrey, So. East street.
Lafontaine, Adelard, Park street.
Lappin, Peter, No. East street.
Leblane, Joseph, Elm street.
Lempke, Henry, R. F. D.

Linehan, Jeremiah, Newton place.
Linehan, Walter, Newton place.
Lunn, Horace A., Taylor street.

CITY OFFICERS  

Lyons, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Landry, Joseph N., Elm street.

 Lapointe, Omer, So. Canal street.
Laperle, Louis, So. Bridge street.
Meehan, Frank J., Mosher street.
Meehan, Joseph, Sargeant street.
MeCoombs, John, Walnut street.
MeDonald, John W., No. East street.
MeNaught, William, Sargeant street.
Murphy, Jeremiah, So. Summer street.
Murphy, Timothy, Hamilton street.
Miller, Alexander  ., Sycamore street.
Morin, Francois, So. Summer street.
MeCearn, John, School street.
MeCool, John, Crescent street, Northampton.
McCarthy, Felix, Whiting avenue.
Maher, Alexander, Columbus avenue.
Maloney, Timothy, John street, Willimansett.
Mercure, Alfred, Main street.
Mulany, George A., Elm street.
Murphy, Thomas, West street.
McKenna Michael, Dwight street.
Manning, Patrick J., Samosett street.
Martin, John, Commercial street.
Maley, Patrick H., Elm street. —
McGuire, Arthur, Lyman street.
Mengel, Frank O., So. Summer street.
McCarthy, Dennis, Samosett street.
MeManus, John, Pleasant street.
Miller, George M., Jarvis avenue.
MeLaughlin, William J., Newton street
Manning, Michael, West strect.
O’Connor, John J.. City Farm, Ingleside.
O’Keefe, David, Bowers street, B. M. Passenger Sta.
O’Neill, John S., Sargeant street. :
O’Brien, John H., E. Dwight street.

|
|

, CITY OFFICERS
Oliver, Albert, So. Summer street. ,
O’Connor, James, Plymouth place.
Parker, Arthur B., Maple street.
Potvin, Gilbert, Sr., Maple street.
Poutre, Ovila, So. Bridge street.
Peterson, Henry, Mountain road.
Plouf, Thomas, Ferguson place.
Pelott, Leander, Westfield road.

. Raymond, Joseph M., Grover street.

Roche, William F., Sonoma place.
Ryan, James C., Newton street.
Rainault, H., So. East street.
Rogers, Nelson W., Pleasant street.
Rogers, William B., Newton street.
Roberts, Charles S., Sargeant street.
Reilly, John, Mosher street.
Redfern, Frank W., Race street.
Richardson, John F., Northampton street.
Raboin, J. Hormsidas, So. Summer street.
Sabourin, Leopold, Park street.
Schoenfeldt, Charles L., R. F. D.  .
Skilling, Thomas, Newton street.
Smith, Charles H., St. Jerome avenue.
Smith, John F.  No. Canal street.
Snow, Melvin N., Allen street.
Speneer, Henry B., Suffolk street.
Stratton, Edward B., Dwight street.
Sullivan, Frank J., Elm street.
Sullivan, John 'B., Elm street.
Saulnier, Joseph A., Chicopee street, Willimansett.
Stronfers, Axel, No. East street.
Slavin, Thomas J., South street.
Spooner, Edgar A., Highland terrace.
Smith, Robert J., Walnut street.
Samson, Edward, Bond street.
Sanderson, Whipple R., Essex street. |

CITY OFFICERS  
St. Martin, Anthony, West Springfield.
Stacy, Joseph, E. Dwight street.
Sittard, Charles, Avon place.
Schubach, Frederick, No. Bridge street.
Tokarski Felix, Union street.
Turconi, Romeo R., Maple street.
Uhlmann, Bruno, Temple street.
Vogel, Frank, Main street.
Vallee Joseph, Pine street.
Wheeler, Fred A., Merrick avenue.
Whitcomb, Levi S., Elm street.
Williams, Henry C., Walnut street.
Williams, Fred S., Hampden street.
Wing, John, West Holyoke.
Wooley, Arthur E., Pearl street.
Waters, Peter, Linden street.
Young, Daniel W., Linden street.
Zenner, Hugo, R. F. D.  .

OONSTABLES.
Valentine J. O’Donnell, Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Hillside avenue.
Ernest R. Laduke, Coit street.
Leon Bliss, Westfield road.
Salime J. Benoit, Walnut street.
Fred Laduke, Coit street.
John Schmidt, So. ‘Bridge ‘street.
J. Sidney Wright, Taylor street.
Frederick S. Williams, Hampden street.
George A. Mulany, Elm street.
Thomas J. Cummins, Ely street.
WHRIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.
William Hart, Newton street.
Walter R. Brown, View street.  

  CITY OFFICERS
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK AND
STONE.
E. A. Ellsworth, Essex street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Timothy J. McCarthy, Waldo street.
W. J. Howes, Taylor street.
A. F. Sickman, Lincoln street.
J. J. Keane, Linden street.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Howard street.
M. N. Snow, Allyn street.
Wallace E. Sawin, Tavlor street.
| MEASURERS OF GRAIN AND MEAL.
William R. Ross, Parker street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O’Connell, Hampden street.
Newton F. Holmes, Maple street.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Elm street.
Edward R. Crafts. Northampton street.
Michael Shine. Nonotuck street.

| CITY OFFICERS  
Richard Peters, Pear! street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
John A. Davis, Hampden street.
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
F. A. Whiting, Main street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
C. R. Evans, Grover street.
William S. Thorpe, Lineoln street.
George I. Sackett, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street.
E. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
G. H. Lynds, Harrison avenue.
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
Edward A. Best, Gates street.
William S. Bhing, Washington avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
John J. Kenney, Pine street.
Patrick Murphy, Elm street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Appleton street.
Louis Bibeau, Race street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
Michael F. Shea, Congress street.
William Bresnahan, Lyman street.
B. E. Sullivan, Parker street.
George A. Lawrence, Park street.
Thomas Shea, Elm street.
Francis J. Linnehan, Suffolk street.
Joseph Laframboise, Prew Co., Willimansett.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Prew Co., Willimansett.
Hilarion Duhamel, Main street.
John Kennedy, Pine street.
Patrick J. Sullivan, Center street.

  CITY OFFICERS
John Herman Koegel, Chestnut street.
] Arthur Zaumseil, Main street.
Jiames Hennessey, Pine street.
William T. Wilson, Northampton street.
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Miary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
‘Bertha O’Keefe, Nonotuck street.
Wilfred Barsalon, North Bridges treet.
James Wall, Pine street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
Michael J. Connor, Sargeant street.
Dennis Begley, No. East street.
William P. Keating, Charles street.
Arthur Turner, High street.
Edward MeCarthy, Newton street.
Ira J. Humes, Oak street.
Jeremiah J. Grady, Elm street.
Richard Connor, Bh street.
John Courtney, Lyman street.
Walter R. Brown, View street.
Madeline P. Dufresne, Riverdale street, Chicopee.
Joseph Harris. No. Bridge street. .
MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHAROOAL.
E. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street. .
Daniel O’Connell, Jr., Hampden street.
W.S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
M. J. Teahan. Nonotuck street.
C. B. Davis, Elm street.
F,. A. Whiting, Main street.
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue. |
John J. Finn, Dwight street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
M. E. Fitzgerald, South Hadley Falls.
Edward A. Best, Gates street.
John Kenney, Pine street.
John Walsh, St. Jerome avenue.
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street. ,
John Shugrue, Lymen street.
WEIGHERS OF BEEF, PORK, MUTTON AND HIDES.
W. O. Judd, Chestnut street.
SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.

S. M. Knowles, Beacon avenue.
Casper Ranger, Appleton street.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
F. W. Ely, Locust street.
A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Lewis Warner, Pear! street.
Patrick Walsh, Dwight street.

BURIAL AGENT.

Harry Crosby, Cabot street.

WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Patrick Gear.

Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Shaughnessy.

Clerk—Charles H. Goodrich. |

Deputy Clerk—Rodolphe Baillargeon.

Inspectors—Oornelius F. Crowley, James Clark, Dieudonne Blain, Octave Langlois.

Deputy Inspectors—Jeremiah Mannix, Michael H. Fitzgerald, Ernest C. Provost, William M. Perry.

WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—John H. Ryan.

Deputy Warden—P. J. Kenney.

Clerk—Wilbur A. Robinson.

Deputy Clerk—John Irvine.

Inspectors—Thomas J. Maroney, Francis J. Meehan,
Wilham Vines, Henry Frappier. )

Deputy Inspectors—John F. Kennedy, Dennis M. Haggerty, Frank F. Lipps, Perle Marrs.

: WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Odilion Moreau.

Deputy Warden—Louis A. Turgeon.

Clerk—Fred A. Monat.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph Charest.

Inspectors—George A. Tetrault ,Hilaire Jacques, Jdr.,
Henry St. Cyr, Frederick Hamelin.

Deputy Inspectors—George A. Lawrence, Joseph U.
Smith, Hector Mousette, Garrett Bowler.

ELECTION OFFICERS  
WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.
W arden—Edward J. Whalen.
Deputy Warden—Dennis Healey.
Clerk—Joseph B. Fontaine.
Deputy Clerk—Edward Bourbeau.
Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Jr., Edward D. Welch,
John L. Fournier, Max Weisbach.
Deputy Inspectors—John C. Colton, Elezar Robert, Victor Messier, Stanislaus Donaldson.

WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—lIsadore Davis. ,
Deputy Warden—Fred T. Ball.

Clerk—James P. Hannan.

Deputy Clerk—Bartholomew Donoghue, Jr.

Inspectors—Fred Leining, George ‘Barnett, Jr., Jeremiah
J. O’Connor, Jr., Wallace M. France.

Deputy Inspectors—Edgar M. Osgood, Herbert L. Baldwin, August H. Baush, John H. Carroll.

WARD THREE—PRECINCT B.
‘Warden—Paul H. Koehler.

Deputy Warden—Michael J. Shea.

Clerk—John F. Lowceock.

Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin.

Inspectors—John F. Higgins, John Cronin, Ernest Sattler, Frank A. Wells.

Deputy Inspectors—Joseph Kane, Charles E. Gillon,
Frederick H. Foerster, Henry J. Bey.

WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Joseph P. Nolan.

Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Begley.

Clerk—Frank F. Hamel.

  ELECTION OFFICERS

Deputy Clerk—Camille L. Nadeau.

| Inspectors—Frank Lamay, William J. Dillon, Joseph

Masse, Hormisdas Thomas. ,

Deputy Inspectors—Drban Fleming, James Long, Thomas E. Dufresne, Adam Ostrowski.

WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.

'Warden— William J. O’Connor. |

Deputy Warden—Daniel J. McCarthy, Lyman street.

‘Clerk—Timothy F. Lyons.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph K. Menard.

Inspectors—Michael Kerin, Joseph J. McCarthy, Levi
Russell, Edward Fitzgerald.

Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Shea, Chestnut street;
Thomas Ash, Edward Loiseau, Joseph Daudelin.

WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A,

Warden—Owen L. Hand.

Deputy Warden—David F. Mullen.

Clerk—Henry B. Spencer.

Deputy Clerk—Edward C. Purington.

Inspectors—Frank L. Greaney, Daniel F. O’Connell, Ira
J. Humes, G. Herbert Foster.

Deputy Inspectors—John J. O’Connor, Clinton avenue; Patrick J. Clifford, Joseph N. Prew, George A. Green.
WARD FIVE—PREUCINCT B.

Warden—Charles E. Van Valkenburgh.

Deputy Warden—Joseph C. McCarthy.

Clerk—Frank D. O’Connor.

Deputy Clerk—Patrick J. Dempsey.

Inspectors— White P. Bidwell, Frank E. Buckley, Thomas J. Hart.

Deputy Inspectors—William A. Allvn, Charles S. Murlless, Patrick W. Fitzgerald, Thomas J. Kelliher.

ELECTION OFFICERS  !

* WARD SIX—PRECINCT A.

 Warden—Fred N. Ricker. ,
Deputy Warden—Leander C. Hartzell. }
Clerk—Lawrenece F. Dowd. |
Deputy Clerk—Joseph Morley.

Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles E. Watson,

Charles McCauley.

Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Andrew Nye,

George A. Lee, John Vaughan. ]

WARD SIX—PRECINCT B. oo
Warden—Edmund J. Lee.
Deputy Warden—Thomas Skillings.
Clerk—Frederick Shearer. aa ae
Deputy Clerk—Albilon F. Hitchcock.
Inspectors—Vincent D. P. Sheehan, Edward A. Driscoll,

Alexander Pratt, Robert D. Moore.

Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Cavanaugh, Nicholas Cavanaugh, James E. Jagger, James Gray.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.
Warden— Willis D. Ballard.
Deputy Warden—George W. Doane.
Clerk—Martin J. Leary.
Deputy Clerk—Bernard F. Bigelow.
Inspectors—William S. Thorpe, Arthur R. Root, Linus
  rafts, Harry J. Ferry.
B- Deputy Inspectors—Raymond P. Allyn, Herbert C. Kejari- William R. Chase, William H. Delaney.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.
‘Warden—Walter F. Batchelder.
Deputy Warden—John M. James.
Clerk—John W. Sceolley.  

 ELECTION OFFICERS

Deputy Clerk—Richard P. Stapleton.

Inspectors—Earl J. Cain, Edwin B. Evans, Levi E. Fay, |
John H. Delaney.

Deputy Inspectors—Thomas E. Sullivan, James J. Driscoll, Thomas McGuines, Burton C. Read.

a |
‘OFFICERS FOR  |
 Water Commissioners
Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman
Thomas J. Lynch, Treasurer
Jesse E. Sheldon, Secretary.
Water Registrar
. Albert E. Pickup.
Clerk
Miss Alice S. Corner.
Miss Katherine G. Sullivan.
Assistant Clerk
Miss Helen A. Hanley.
Superintendent
John J. Kirkpatrick. ;
Engineer |
Timothy J. MacCarthy.
Assistant Engineer
Patrick J. Lucey.
Inspectors.
James F. Cleary
Thome E. Sullivan Joseph B. Walsh
Engen F. Kane Daniel F. Cray
L

REPORT OF
Board of Water Commissioners
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldetmen:
The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present the following as their report for the fiscal year ending
November :
RECEIPTS.
Balanee December ..................  
Water rents ......... cc     ees 
Interest on meters...........        
Service PIPC ......       eens  
Interest on bank deposits..............  
Materials and labor ................     
|  
W     ence      
Apples ....cc    ence    
Serap iron, ete. .......     |
Tee privilege and supervision................  
Lease of land to Holyoke Street Railway Co...  
Rent of Connery farm............-...  
New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad }
Oo., for destruction of trees.............  
Sale of one hundred and ten  water
bonds, premium and interest............ ;
Sundries  ...   cc e          
$ 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
EXPENDITURES.
Main pipe extension and supplies............  
Service pipe extension and supplies.........  
Main pipe repairs ..........ce     
Service pipe repairs ........... cc       
Hy drants  ... ...    cc  cence ences  
Reservoirs—

Ashley and Wright Ponds, including Rock

Cut, and Whiting Street and High
ServiCe ....   e ce       
Fomer ...    ete   ”  
New Storage, Southampton-Westhampton  
Premium account ........ cc  ee    
| Supervision and inspection: .................  
MeterS  .. occ     eter nea  
Barn            
SS)  
Automobile  ... .. cc cc   ewes  
OfICE       tent   nee  
Engineering ...........     neces  
Heirs of John C. Thorpe (Jand)..............  
Jane Moss, et al (right of way in land).......  
Jane Moss and Frank Moss (damage to crops)  
City of Holyoke, taxes.....................  
Interest on bonds ..............      
Transfer to Sinking Fund (bonds due in 
Transfer to Sinking Fund (bonds due in 
For all other purposes ...............   
$ 

Cash in Holyoke National Bank, 

Cash tin City National Bank,  

Cash in Home National Bank,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  
Cash on hand  
| ———  
$  .
December .

I hereby certify that have examined the cash book
and the daily collection book of the water department for |
the fiscal year ending November found them correctly added and the vouchers for payments properly ap- ,
proved. The cash balance,  has been verified.

: D. W. KENNEY, ,
City Auditor.

The fiseal year has been busy one for this department, the construction of the new storage reservoir ,
claiming large share of the Board’s attention.

The work has progressed satisfactorily, so much of the

basin of the reservoir as was considered necessary this year
having been cleared and made ready for the storage of
water. The dike and roadway on the easterly side have
been raised and the reservoir side of the dike mprapped.
Work on the dam is being pushed, and if the good weather
holds for few weeks longer the contractor should be able
to very nearly complete his contract within the time specified, though it is doubtful if he entirely finishes the work
on the date named, which is December  th. However, the
work on both the dam and basin has reached the stage where
we can feel assured of being able to store what surplus water
the brook is likely to deliver the coming spring.

The site selected for the dam proved to be an exceptionally good one, rock being found in the hills on both sides

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
of the brook as well as in the bed of the stream at that place.
From fifty to sixty men have been employed on the new
reservoir, besides those in the employ of the dam contractor,
since early in June, and they are still at work as our fiscal
year closes. Should the good weather continue, they will
probably have employment for three or four weeks longer.
The amount borrowed for the construction of the new
reservoir was on serial bonds bearing per cent
interest per annum, and so arranged that the sum of principal and interest to be paid each year will not vary greatly
in amount from the year of issue to that in which the last
bonds mature, namely  .- The amount of the bonds maturing increases as the interest charge diminishes. premium of  was received on the bonds issued. .
The balance of the  loan authorized by the
Legislature can be ‘borrowed when needed. The amount
| expended for labor of men and teams was about ,
\ and for tools and supplies while the total amount
spent this year on the reservoir, including the dam tnd the
purchase of land, was approximately .
The Board consummated the purchase of the properties
of Florence P., Mary A. and W. Robinson Lyman, Millard
G. Crandall and Albert L. Snow at the prices agreed upon
last vear, namely,  for the Lyman property, 
for the Crandall, and  for the Snow property. The
Cowls and Cadwell land, formerly the Samuel L. T. Wright
farm, was taken by right of eminent domain, as the Board
eould make no satisfactory terms with them in regard to
the price that should be paid for the property, and the matter is now in the hands of the County Commissioners for
adjustment.
Considerable work also has been done in the city, giving
| steady employment to large number of men. About  
/ feet of new mains have been laid, at cost of over ,
, large portion of this amount being expended for labor.
The new mains were laid in various parts of the city,

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
including the Highland park section, where number of ,
new houses have been erected during the past year. Several !
new hydrants were installed. |
The Rock Cut improvements have been carried forward, |
by the extension of the concrete arch and side walls of the
canal. The amount expended for the work this year was |
about .
A concrete channel was built on the side of Mt. Tom for
the purpose of saving the water which overflows from the
Loomis reservoir ‘and delivering it into the Whiting Street
reservoir, weir measurements having shown that after heavy
rains nearly gallons of water per day could overflow
from this reservoir, almost all of which previously went to
Smith’s Ferry.
The roadway around Whiting Street reservoir has been
widened and graded, the culverts enlarged. and high
barbed wire fence has been built along the Mountain park
property lines.
A supposed leak in the High Service reservoir dam was
investigated and found not to be leak in the dam, but in
the  -inch pipe that delivers the water to this *cservoir,
from the Fomer supply. Two broken pipes were sound in
the embankment on the down stream side of the dam at a
depth of about feet, and were repaired. The leakage
from these pipes was estimated as about gallons of
water day and while this water was not lost to the city,
for the reason that it flowed into Ashley ponds, vet if was
lost to the High Service reservoir, and, therefore, of no
benefit to the higher sections of the city for which it was
intended.
The finances of the department have good showing,
considering the fact that restrictions had to be placed on the
use of water, which resulted in the loss of considerable
revenue,
The receipts for water, were very nearly
$  more than those for the year previous, the gross reREPORT OF WATER BOARD  
ceipts, being little over  in excess of those
for  while the balance in the water rents account at
the close of the year was or about  more

than year ago.

Seven thousand dollars was deposited in the sinking
fund for the payment of Holyoke water bonds, and the
earnings from the sinking fund investments amounted to ,
$ making the total in the fund at the close of the
fiseal year .

The low water in the ponds and reservoirs necessitated
placing restrictions on the use of the city water fur garden
and lawn sprinkling, and by the mills for manufacturing ,
purposes, early in May, and this condition lasted until after
the close of the hose season, October Ist. Garden and lawn
sprinkling was restricted to Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings and hose could be used on these evenings only
one-half hour.

The dry fall and open winter, followed by dry spring,
prevented the ponds and reservoirs from filling as they
should have done in order to insure sufficient supply of
water for all purposes. In addition to the lack in rainfall,
the Fomer supply was shut off and the water allowed to
waste for nearly four months during the late summer and
fall of because of typhoid scare on that watershed.

The breaking of the department’s seals on valves connected with the fire service systems at the mills has been
a matter of grave concern to the Commissioners for some
time.

City water is furnished to the mills for fire protection
purposes, free of charge, and outlets from the fire service
systems are sealed by the inspectors of the department at
the department’s expense, the rules of the Board providing
that such seals shal] not be broken. except in case of emergency, meaning in case of fire, or to prevent loss of or damage to property.

The large number of seals broken as reported by our

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
inspectors from time to time indicate that the seals are
broken without any apparent regard for the rule or the
purpose for which city water is supplied to the fire service
systems. The attention of the mill officials has been called
to this breach of the rules, but it does not lessen the breaking of the seals; on the contrary, the number ‘broken appears to increase. The Commissioners are determined that
. this unwarranted breaking of seals shall be stopped, and
recommend that the mills be charged for the re-sealing of
] the valves and outlets on the fire service, and if this does
not correct the practice complained of, it may then be necessary to take some severe measures to compel respect for the
rules and prevent the city water furnished for fire protection, from being used for any other purpose. |
The report of the Superintendent of the department, |
and the report of the City Engineer on the new reservoir |
dam and other matters connected with the department will
be found on sueding pages of this report, to both of which ,
you are respectfully referred for more detailed account
of the work accomplished during the year. |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
ee

It is with sense of deep sorrow that we record the

death of Miss Alice S. Corner, faithful and highly efficient

employee in the Water Commissioners’ office for period

of nearly twenty-five years, who was fatally injured in a

| runaway accident on April  th, Patriots’ day, and died a

few hours later.

Miss Corner was woman of rare ability, and pleasing
disposition, and held the respect and esteem, not only of her
associates in the department, but of the community at large.

a

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board of

Water Commissioners on the death of Miss Corner:
CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASSACHUSETTS. .
Board of Water Commissioners.

Whereas Divine Providence has removed from our department Miss Alice Corner. We, the Water Commissioners of the City of Holyoke, meet to formally express our
deep sorrow at the untimely death of Miss Alice Corner; to
also declare our appreciation of her faithful public services;

to pay our tribute to her character and loving disposition
and lastly to sorrowfully tender to her bereaved mother and
family, the poor yet truest human solace in the hour of their
bereavement, our deepest personal sorrow. Be it therefore
Resolved; That the Water Commissioners of Holyoke
express their deepest personal sorrow at the untimely death
of Miss Alice Corner, who faithfully and progressively
served this department for twenty-five years. Be it also

Resolved, That they proclaim, what has been the opinion
of all previous Boards, that Miss Alice Corner was ‘a woman
of exceptional ability, capacity and rare faculties, as demonstrated by her long and unquestioned public services. Not
only was she capable, but she was ever enriching her department with new ideas and suggestions. She also possessed
a peronality that rendered her services acceptable to all
classes of citizens. She was always helpful and pleasant
and always appreciated the courtesies that the public servant owes the public. Faithful to her duties and never forgetful of official courtesies, she daily grew in the affection
and love of the people of our city. Be it further

| Resolved, That we tender her mother our deepest sympathy and sorrow, trusting that in this hour of her heartbreaking bereavement. she might find consolation and comREPORT OF WATER BOARD  
fort in the expressions of love, respect and esteem with
which her daughter was held by all in this community. Be
it further

Resolved, That copy of these resolutions be inscribed
on the ‘books of this department; and further that copy
be engraved and forwarded to the bereaved family. —

THOMAS J. CARMODY,
THOMAS J. LYNCH,
JESSE E. SHELDON,
Water Commissioners.
/

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
a .
We also wish to publicly record the memory of the late 
John D. Hardy, former Superintendent of this department.
Mr. Hardy served for period of twenty-six years as Superintedent of the Water Department, which is positive proof
of his faithful and efficient public services. e
 :


REPORT OF WATER BOARD 
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.

Cost reported November ..........  
Increase during the year: y

Main pipe extensions, 

Hydrants,  

Steel footbridge at High

Service reservoir, ,

Rock Cut arch, ete.,  

Land, heirs of John C. Thorpe, se

Right of way in land, Jane |

Moss, et al,  

New storage reservoir, South- ampton- Westhampton,  
Meters,  

———-  

$ 

Depreciation, per cent ..........+e- -  

- 

The cast iron mains were extended feet. For location, size and length of extensions see Table A.

The length of cast iron main is miles, and of temporary wrought iron, miles. For location, size and
length of mains see Tables and C.

Twenty-seven gates were set in new locations. The
total number to date is  For location and size see
Tables and E.

Three hydrants were set in new locations, and one was
replaced. The total number of public fire hydrants is  .
For location, ete, see Tables and G. Following Table G
B aeummary of fire service in the various mills in the city,
Which is additional to the above.

re

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Twenty-two meters were set in new locations, and ,
twenty discontinued, making the total now in use  For :
make, size and location see Table H.
One hundred thirty-three service pipe connections were
added during the year, and eight discontinued, making the
total number in use to date  .
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND NOVEMBER .
(Bonds due in  and  .)
Amount reported November ......... 
Inerease during the year:
Interest on loans on real estate, 
Interest on bonds,  
Interest on bank deposits,  
————  
Transfer from water rents account...........  
$  |
INVESTMENT.
Loans on real estate.............e  - 
City of Holyoke, Gas and Electric Light bonds,  
City of Holyoke, Water Loan bonds..........  
City of Holyoke, School Loan bonds..........  
City of Holyoke, Sewer Loan bonds..........  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank, —, 
Cash in Home National Bank,  
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank, |
Cash in City National Bank, ,
—————- |
$  |
Examined and approved, |
WALTER W. EATON,
Certified Public Accountant. .
December |
;
|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE SEVERAL
BOND ISSUES.
(Bonds due in  .)
Loans on real estate ..........-.++- + +- 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electrie Light bonds  
City of Holyoke School Loan bonds..........  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank..............  
$ 
: (Bonds due in  .)
Loans on real estate .....   wee      
City of Holyoke Gas and Electrie Light bonds  
City of Holyoke Water Loan bonds..........  City of Holyoke School Loan bonds..........  
City of Holyoke Sewer Loan ‘bonds..........  
Cash in Home National Bank, 
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  
——  
$ 
: (Bonds due in  .) .
Loans on real estate ...... ececus 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electrie Light bonds  
City of Holyoke School Loan bonds..........  
Cash in City National Bank.......... .-.  
$ 
All of which is respetefully submitted.
THOMAS J. CARMODY,
THOMAS J. LYNCH, |
JESSE E. SHELDON,
Water Commissioners.
a

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

SALARIES OF EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT.

John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent........... 
Albert E. Pickup, Registrar...................  
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan, Clerk.............  

Miss Helen A. Hanley, Assistant Clerk.......... :
Patrick Gear, General Foreman................ z
Alexander H. O’Brien, Foreman...............  

James F. Cleary, Chief Inspector..............-  
Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector................-  
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector............. |
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector.............. -- ;
Daniel F. Cray, Inspector..............s |
Patrick J. Lucey, Assistant Engineer........... |
Frank J. Millane, Asistant Micro-Analyst......  

Mrs. Catherine Power, Caretaker at Fomer Res.  

Report of the Superintendent
To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners:
GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to present herewith the
report of your superintendent for the year ending Nov.  ,
 .

The year ending Nov. was one of unusual activity in this department. Besides the regular routine and
many small jobs that cannot be described in this report,
several valuable permanent improvements have been undertaken. Some of these have been completed but most of
them are in the process of design or construction.

THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.

Six thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine feet of
mains were laid, at total cost of making the total
mileage of the mains about miles.

In Martin street  -inch main was laid from the Westfield road to connect with the dead end near the house of
Mr. W. J. Dumelow, distance of feet, costing .

In Faille street feet of  -inch pipe was laid from
Dwight street northerly at cost of .

In Franklin street feet of  -inch main was laid from
Pinehurst street easterly to the dead end west of St. Jerome
avenue, at cost of .

In Harvard street feet of  -inch main was laid from
Pleasant street westerly, costing There was also
laid in Harvard street feet of  -inch main between Pleasant and Cleveland streets, at cost of .

In Stanford street feet of  -inch main was laid, from
Pleasant street to Nonotuck street, at cost of .

i In Arthur street feet of  -inch main and feet of
|  -inch main were laid from Peltiah street southerly, at cost
| of .

|

{

  RERORT OF WATER BOARD

In Amherst street feet of  -inch main was laid, from
Nonotuck street easterly to connect with the dead end of
pipe laid in  at cost of .

In Queen street feet of  -inch main was laid northerly from Coit street and feet of  -inch main was laid
southerly from Coit street, at cost of .

In Lexington avenue the  -inch main was extended  
feet easterly at cost of .

In Cherry street  -inch main was laid from Hillside
avenue westerly distance of feet to the pumping station of the Tuberculosis hospital at cost of .

In Nonotuck street feet of  -inch main was laid
from Princeton street to point feet south of Amherst
street, at cost of .

In Cleveland street feet of  -ineh main was laid
southerly from Harvard street and feet was laid northerly from Harvard street, at cost of .

In Princeton street feet of  -invch main was laid westerly from Nonotuck street at cost of .

In Essex street an  -inch main was laid from High street
to Bond street, distance of feet, at cost of .

In St. Jerome avenue feet of  -inch main was laid
southerly from Franklin street at cost of .

In Martin street feet of  -inch main was laid from
Longwood avenue to Lawler street at eost of .

In Dartmouth street  -ineh main was laid from Pleasant street westerly, distance of feet, at cost of
$ .

In Monroe street  -inch temporary main was laid to a
point feet southerly of the south side of Dwight street
at. eost of .

Three new hydrants were set at cost of loeated, one on Tlomestead avenue near the Jenks farm, one
north of Kenilworth Castle on road leading to Whiting
Street reservoir, and one at the eorner of Franklin street
and Chapman avenue.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

One hundred and thirty-three new services, making a
total length of feet, were laid at cost of ,
and old services were replaced with lead lined pipe at
a cost of .

WORK AT THE RESERVOIRS.

The arch and side walls of the canal at the Rock Cut
have been built to where it is planned to construct the cutoff wall which will form the westerly end of the covered
portion of the canal. The arch built this year covers the
widest part of the canal. It has clear span of feet and
is built of concrete reinforced with expanded metal. For
labor and materials the work done this year cost .

Special mention should be made of the work done this
year to bring the oevrftlow water from Loomis reservoir, on
the side of Mt. Tom, to the Whiting Street reservoir. Heretofore nearly all of this water went towards Smith’s Ferry
and was lost to the city. Weir measurements showed that
after heavy rains almost gallons per day could overflow from Loomis reservoir and never reach Whiting Street
reservoir. Now all this water is saved to the city as it
reaches the Whiting Street reservoir through eoncrete
channel which was built this year.

Other improvements at the Whiting Street reservoir
consist of widening and grading the roadway around the
reservoir, rebuilding and enlarging culverts, and erecting

a high fence of barb wire along the Mountain park property
lines. The improvements at Whiting Street reservoir this
year cost .

At Ashley ponds about white pine seedlings were
set out on the MacNaughton tract.

On April  th sparks from the locomotive on the Holyoke and Westfield R. R. set fire to the dry grass near Ashley ponds and the white pine seedling set out in and
  were destroyed.

For the past two or three years there has been a

 
cod

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

| ‘*spring’’ oozing through the surface of the ground at the

| down stream toe of the High Service dam. Early in the
winter the ‘‘spring’’ developed into fair sized stream. At
that time the reservoir was supplying the higher elevations
of the city, and as the other reservoirs contained less than

| the usual amount it was considered advisable to postpone
action. Later, when the reservoir was out of commission,
two gates were shut on the line that carries the water from

| Fomer to the High Service reservoir. In less than an hour
after the gates were shut the stream stopped flowing. This
showed the leak was in the  -inch pipe line and not in the
dam. When the pipe line was exposed two broken pipes
were found with one length of pipe in between remaining

| intact. These pipes rested on concrete piers, about feet

! apart, and followed the original course of the brook. Both

| breaks were almost identically the same, each pipe was
broken across the top and about one-quarter way down the
sides at point about inches from the pier. The break

| then sheered diagonally towards the pier where the pipe

. was abruptly eut off at the bottom. The embankment over
the broken pipe was about feet high. The expense of

: repairing these breaks was .

| NEW STORAGE RESERVOIR.

On June dth,  work was commenced on the new

sturage reservoir which, when completed, will be partly in
Southampton and partly in Westhampton. The work of
preparing the basin, raising the roadways and building the
dike; also the work of providing dining, sleeping and sanitary accommodations for the help has been carried on by
dav labor under the direction of your Board. The dike at
the easterly end of the dam has been brought to elevation
  which is feet above the level of the spillway. The
slope of the dike is to  and the water side is covered
with riprap. Everything is finished about the dike except
the work of covering the top with loam and seeding down

REPORT OF WATER BOARD 
the same. Nearly per cent of the basin has been cleared
of debris, wood and brush; stumps have been pulled out
between elevation and elevation  in all about per
eent of the basin, and the vegetable matter between high
and low water levels has been removed. The highway just
south of the Samuel T. Wright homestead has been brought
up to the level of the spillway. When finished this highway
will be level with the dike and have maximum fill of  
feet.

The expenditures on this work to Dec. Ist,  are
as follows:
For labor of men and teams.................. 
For tools and supplies .............      
Total cost ... cc.   ce      ees  

Thanking you for your kindly co-operation during the
year, this report is respectfully submitted.

JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
Superintendent.

Report of the City Engineer
To the Honorable, the Board of Water Commissioners:
GENTLEMEN:—I herewith submit my report of the engineering work accomplished for your honorable Board during
the year  .
NEW STORAGE RESERVOIR.

The construction of new storage reservoir near the
head waters of the Manhan brook which has been contemplated for some years past, was begun this year.

Surveys and contour maps were made of the proposed
basin to determine the capacity at different elevations.
Daily gaugings have been recorded for number of years
on this stream. From the data so obtained, reservoir to
hold gallons of water was decided upon as best
adapted to the future requirements of the water supply of
the eity.

All timber has been eut and removed from the  basin
and the shores stripped and grubbed from point  feet
above to point feet below the flowage Ine.

The test pits excavated during the months of February
and March at the site of the new dam, revealed ledge rock
within few feet of the surface, notwithstanding statements
made to the effect that no rock would be found within two
miles of the location.

After excavation of the surface, the ledge was found to
extend over the whole site of the dam. This ledge is mainly
of granitie formation weighing about pounds to the eubit foot, with irregular surfaces, and has no definite lines
of cleavage.

On the east side the surface of the ledge roek selected

REPORT OF. WATER BOARD  
for the foundation dips generally to the north towards the
reservoir at an angle of from to degrees from the horizontal. On the west side the surface assumes more vertical position with dip to the northeast.

Between these two formations were found seams of
conglomerate composed principally of trap and mica schist.

On the site of the dam all loose rock was removed. A
cut-off trench about feet deep was excavated in the sound
ledge and all seams thoroughly grouted.

Considerable delay was experienced by the contractor
in the excavation of the conglomerate which could not be
drilled or blasted economically, heavy blast throwing out
but three or four eubic feet. Pick and shovel were used to
reach the hard rock underlying this formation.

The surface of this underlying rock varies in depth
from to feet below the surface rock at the bed of the
brook. Its hard, irregular surface forms an ideal foundation for the dam.

A few springs were encountered on the west bank which
were drilled and piped to the toe of the dam and thoroughly
grouted.

CYCLOPEAN MASONRY.

Cyclopean masonry was used throughout. sufficient
quantity of gravel of very good quality being found, which,
when screened, formed an ideal aggregate for water-tight
eoncrete.

Large blocks of granite quarried in the vicinity are
used as ballast, to per cent of stone being used. The |
concrete weighs about pounds per ecubie foot and the
ballast pounds. The masonry estimated as weighing
between and pounds to the eubie foot.

Reinforcement of  -inch steel rods were laid vertically
one foot, center to center, along the whole upstream face of
the dam as an additional safeguard against any ice pressure
that might possibly oecur.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Personally the writer believes that in this partiuclar
instance ice pressure might have been disregarded, as the
gently sloping banks on the opposite side of the reservoir
from the dam will allow the ice to slide up on the shore.

Another feature which must be taken into account is
the wedge formation of the ice in the vicinity of the dam.
The steep shores converge towards the dam and take the
thrust of this ice wedge, thereby removing practically all
such pressure from the dam.

The dam is feet long at the top, exclusive of the core
wall on the east, and about feet at the bottom, the bedrock sloping more gradually on the east than on the west
sicle.

The height above the surface rock at the brook is  
feet; the width at the base is feet at point feet
from the top, and the back is vertical. The face is battered
  feet to one foot.

The spillway is feet below the top of the dam and is
  feet in length on the westerly end of the dam. It is built
nearly at right angles to the dam on the downstream side,
the approach channel being feet deep and feet in width
at. the back of the dam and gradually diminishing in the area
of its cross section to about square feet.

From the gatehouse wells on the upstream side two
pipes pass through the dam. one inches in diameter and
one inehes in diameter, with sluice gates in the wet wells
and gate valves in the dry wells. Both pipes are placed at
the same elevation.

Grooves are formed in the concrete walls of the wet
wells for emergency stop planks and these may be used or,; dinarily for guard sereens.

The inlet openings in the concrete wall from the reservoir to the wet wells are at different elevations. The opening to the  -inch pipe is plaved at the bottom. It takes the
ordinary flow of the stream during construction and will
drain the reservoir in an emergeney.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

The opening for the  -inch pipe used for ordinary supply is feet above the bottom to provide for sedimentation basin below the supply inlet.

The present bed of the brook below the dam will be
used to convey the water to the lower or intake reservoir
at Fomer, two miles down stream.  -inch pipe earries
the water the miles between Fomer and Ashley ponds.

RESERVOIRS.

A new iron footbridge feet in length, extending from
the top of the High Service reservoir dam to the intake, was
constructed by Walsh’s Holyoke Steam Boiler Works.

Sketches were submitted for new entrance to the
grounds surrounding the Ashley ponds reservoir and for a
shelter for the department watchmen.

Plans for new roadway through the apple orchard at
Ashley ponds are in course of preparation.

The arch over the Rock Cut at Ashley ponds was extended distance of feet. Reinforced concrete was
used in the construction of this arch.

. TUBERCULOSIS HOSPITAL.

The location selected for the Tuberculosis hospital being at greater altitude that the highest of our reservoirs,
it was not possible to furnish water by gravity pressure
from the city water supply. It was found necessary on
that account to install pumping station which insured the
necessary pressure by pumping from the mains at an elevation which would give continuous service whether Ashley
ponds, Whiting Street or High Service should happen to be
the source of supply.

A five-horsepower ‘‘Wagner’’ motor operating a
‘‘Deane’’ pump, furnishes supply of gallons per minute
with pressure varying from to pounds at the hospital.

The system is so arranged that the fire engines being
connected with hydrants outside the pumping station, can

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
pump directly into the  nch supply to the hospital where
two other fire hydrants are placed.

The tests by the fire department made under the most
unfavorable conditions, using ordinary tire hose instead of

. flexible suction hose, gave two  -inch streams with continuous nozzle pressure of about pounds to the square inch
at the hospital as recorded on the nozzle gauges.

At one time the pressure was raised to pounds at
this point. These conditions are considered ample for efficient fire service.

In order to meet the public demand for information on
the city water works, the following data and tables have
been prepared.

The first table gives the weekly condition of our reservoirs. The second gives the flowage area, water-shed area,
available capacity and height of the various reservoirs.

The approximate increase in millions of gallons due to
a one-inch rainfall in any particular month will answer the
question so often asked: ‘‘How will this storm affect our
water supply?”’

HOLYOKE WATER WORKS.
Measurements of Reservoirs for Week Ending........  .
METER READINGS.

Ashley Ponds ...........    cc    cere  s
Previous Reading  ...  ...     ec    t tenes
Consumption for Week .........   ce     een ewes
High Service ............    cc       eaes
Previous Reading  ...  ...        tweet  
Consumption for Week ...........     s
Whiting Street .....  ...     et eens
Previous Reading  ...         eens
Consumption for Week ........         nee

Total Consumption................
Population...  ...      
Daily Consumption per Capita................gallons.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
AVAILABLE QUANTITY OF WATER IN RESERVOIRS.
- Present Week.
Ashley Ponds, Height......capacity......million gals.
High Service, Height......capacity......million gals.
Whiting Street, Height......capacity......million gals.
White Reservoir, Height..... .eapacity......nnllion gals.
Total......million gals.
AVAILABLE QUANTITY OF WATER IN RESERVOIRS.
Previous Week.
Ashley Ponds, Height......capacity......million gals.
High Service, Height......capacity......million gals.
Whiting Street, Height......capacity......million gals.
White Reservoir, Meight......capacity......million gals.
Total......mnllion gals.
At gals. per capita daily consumption. ....days’ supply.
Fomer estimated supply.............. days.
: Total supply adequate for........days without evaporation
or seepage.
Rainfall for week..........--inches.
HOLYOKE WATER SUPPLY DATA.
ret, gg RMT Aaet, iMate Aaletaynety Beate
S“teoir, Sa. miles, Acres.  a. miles. Acres in Gallons, "Overflow
Ashley  
High Service  
Whiting Street 
White  
oo  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Approximate Increase in Ponds from  -Inch Rainfall in
Million Gallons. —
Note—Less than  -inch rainfall will not materially affect the ponds during the months of July and August.
Name. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr May. June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec.
 in.  in.  
Ashley Ponds  in.  lin.I  in.  in. 
lin.  in. 
High Service in. in. in.  in. in. in. 
Whiting Street  in. in. in.  in.  
lin. in. 
WhiteReserv'r  in. in. in.  in.  
Average Rainfall Springfield Armory Records for Sixty-Four
Years, by Months.
Yearly Average Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec.
    
I wish to express my appreciation of the hearty support
given me by your honorable Board during the year, and of
the hearty oc-operation and efficient services of my co-workers in the Engineering Department.
Respectfully,
T. J. MacCARTHY, ,
City Engineer.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR AS REGISTERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.
“Pr'Gallons. Ber Capita
 .
December,  .
January, 
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,    
Largest week, July to  gallons, or  
gallons per day, per capita.
Smallest week, October to November 
gallons, or gallons per day, per capita.
Largest day, July  galolns, or gallons
per capita.
Smallest day, June  gallons, or gallons
per capita.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED IN
MILLS AND SHOPS FOR YEAR  ;
 |
| December .........   ee     ces   
JANUALTY occ     ce      ses  
February  ... ...       s  
March  ...              eens 
APVl]l coe           
May woe  cc       S
SUNG Lecce cc  ce  ee twee t enees  
JUV co   cw e  le  eens  
AUGUSt Loe   cc      ee   :
September .......            
October oo.   ce     ee es 
November .....    ce     ees  
Total oo.    cec sseensses  
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED BY ;
ELEVATORS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES,
FOR YEAR |
December  ...      cence   |
 
JANUarV coc         eens February co...  eens  
ED |
Fa) os)  
Mav coc           tenes )
JUNG Lecce     een teens |
TD  
AUGUSE Coc          :
September co.cc          ees  
Oetober co.cc    ce    ete  .
November  Total co.cc        |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE A.
Statement of Loaction, Size and Length of Extensions Made
in  .
| c!
Location g
+/s |e ]s ja
Amherst street from end of pipe
lait in west to Nonotuck
street,  
Arthur street, from Peltiah street
south, 
Cleveland street from Harvard
street south, .
Cleveland street, from Harvard
street north,  
Dartmouth street, west from Pleasstreet,  
Essex street, from Bond street to
High street, 
Faille street, from Dwight street
north,  
Franklin street, from end of pipe
laid in to Pinehurst street  
Harvard street from end of pipe
laid in west to Pleasant
street, 
Harvard street, from Pleasant
street to Cleveland street,  
Hillside avenue, from end of pipe
to Cherry street,  
Hydrants, 
Lexington avenue, from end of pipe
laid in  east,  
Martin street, from the Westfield
road south, 
Martin street, from Longwood avenue north to Lawler street,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE A.—Continued.
ala/l/qglilef)a 
. Location EE f
*/s |e] sia
|
Munroe street, from Dwight street
south,  
Munroe street, from Dwight street
south (temporary main) feet
  inch galvanized pipe,
Nonotuck street, from Amherst
street south,  
Nonotuck street, from Amherst
street north,  
Princeton street, from Nonotuck
street west, 
Queen street, from Coit st’t south  
Queen street, from Coit st’t north,  
Stanford street, from Pleasant
street to Nonotuck street,  
St. Jerome avenue, from Franklin
street south,  
Total number of feet, ;}  
Temporary main, feet of  -inch.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE D.
Summary of Gates Set in  .
Location. No. Size
Cherry at Hillside avenue, feet inches
east of west line of Hillside avenue,  
feet inches south of north line of
Cherry street (Pratt Cady(....... in.
Cleveland at Harvard street, feet east
of west line of Cleveland street, in
north line of Harvard street (Pratt &
Cady) .....       cc ecenece in.
Cleveland at Harvard street, feet east
of west line of Cleveland street, in ;
south line of Harvard street (Pratt &
Cady) ....    cc   cence in.
Dartmouth at Pleasant street, feet south
of north line of Dartmouth street, in
west line of Pleasant street (Pratt &
Cady) ...      nce cs in.
Essex at Bond street, feet inches
north of south line of Essex street, in
west line of Bond street (Pratt Cady) in.
Essex at Bond street, feet inches north
of south line of Essex street, feet
  inches east of west line of Bond
street (Pratt Cady).............. in.
Faille at Dwight street, feet west of
west line of Nonotuck street, feet
north of south line of Dwight street
(Smith) .... cc.         in.
Franklin at Chapman avenue, feet south
of north line of Franklin street, feet
west of east line of Chapman avenue
(Pratt Cady) ..........c   in.


  REROKT OF WATER BOARD
, Location. No. Size
Harvard at Pleasant street, feet inches .
south of north line of Harvard street, +
  foot east of east line of Pleasant street (Pratt Cady).............. in. "
Hillside avenue at Cherry street, feet .
inches east of west line of Hillside  
avenue, feet inches south of north
line of Cherry street (Ludlow)...... in. .
Longwood at Martin street, feet inch- .
es south of north line of Longwood |
avenue, in east line of Martin street ,
(Ludlow) .......      in. :
* Martin at Lawler street  feet south of :
north line of Lawler street, feet  
inches west of east line of Martin ;
street (Pratt Cady) .............. in.
Martin street at Westfield road, feet :
west of east line of Martin street, feet north of south line of Westfield m
road (Smith) ...........   in. .
Martin at Hitchcock street, foot inches  
north of south line of Hiteheock
street, feet west of east line of Mar- :
tin street (Pratt Cady)...........  m
Munroe at Dwight street, feet north of ..
south line of Dwight street, feet  
west of east line of Munroe street .
(Pratt Cady).............. .-  m
Newton at Essex street, feet inches 
; east of west line of Newton street,  
feet inches north of south line of
of Essex street (Pratt Cady)...... in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location. No. Size
Newton at Essex street, feet south of
north line of Essex street, feet  
inches east of west line of Newton
street (Pratt Cady).............. in.
Nonotuck at Amherst street, feet east
of west line of Nonotuck street, in
south line of Amherst street (Pratt
& Cady) .......       s in.
Nonotuck at Princeton street, feet east
of west line of Nonotuck street, in
south line of Princeton street (Pratt
& Cady) ...... cc       s in.
Nonotuck at Amherst street, feet west
of west kine of Nonotuck street, in
north line of Amherst street (Pratt
& Cady)  ... ..    eens in. ,
Stanford at Nonotuck street, feet south
of north line of Stanford street, in
east line of Nonotuck street (Pratt
& Cady) ......          in.
Stanford at Pleasant street, feet south
of north line of Stanford street, in
west line of Pleasant street (Pratt
& Cady) ....         in.
St. Jerome avenue at Franklin street,  
feet inches south of north line of
Franklin street, feet east of west
line of St. Jerome avenue (Pratt &
Cady) ....          in.
Upper Whiting Street reservoir gatehouse
(Pratt Cady) .........eccew in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
GATES FOR HYDRANTS.
Location. No. Size
Homestead avenue, west side, near the
Jenks homestead, east of hydrant
(Smith) ........      in.
Martin street, north of Lawler street, east
side, feet inches west of hydrant
— (Pratt Cady) ................. in.
Whiting Street reservoir road, north of
Kenilworth castle, feet inches
east of the hydrant (Smith)........ in.
Total,  in.;  -in.;  -in.;  -in.;
 -in. Total,  .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE F.
Summary of Hydrants Set in  .
o|/  
Location (Corner or Side) and Make. ann ee
‘ B] a
B|s/s
ee 
Franklin street and Chapman avenue, northeast
eorner (Holyoke)  
Homestead avenue ,near Jenks homestead, west
side (Holyoke)  
*Whiting Street reservoir road, north of Kenilworth gastle (Holyoke)  
| |
pala
Total, 
a 
Hydrants Replaced.  
Bo} S| A
£\  
ae
Northampton street at John Thorpe homestead
(Holyoke)  
(Replaces  -in. single Holyoke.)
a
Total, 
*Steamer connection.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
 -inch, on€ Out ..... cc   cc   veses  -inch, tw  Outs .......    ssess  -inch, twO OutS ....      ec  ase  
G-inch, two outs ........      seccesee  -inch, three outs ....... s  
G-inch, one OUt .......c      escc   D
 -inch, three outs .........   eese il
Cistern ....    cence cesceses .
Total ......           ees  
. SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CITY |
OUTSIDE CITY HYDRANTS, TO DATE.
  stand pipe outs. ,
  single hydrants.
  double hydrants. |
  triple hydrants. .
  four-arm hydrants. |
  cellar hydrant.
  mills using perforated pipe sprinklers.
  mills using automatic sprinklers.
  fire pumps at mills.
  tank containing gallons.
  tank containing gallons.
  tanks containing gallons each.
  tank containing gallons.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
x
a ,, METERS IN USE.
p ne eSoka te
ii sis|islislslsleale
Make ae Oe oem om  om pp a
ao --.  E
SP ae aie Nilo] HI od eS
ft Crown,  
- Empire,  
Gem, 
Hersey,  |}  
Keystone,  
“of King,  
[\ Lambert, 
wi Thomson,  F
Trident, 
Trident Compound, Se Bee |
Union,  |
Worthington,   
Sr alk em) Ape ONS es Kea) Ss ag :
Total,  sat
Sea he sw OEaeais’ Whee dp ds a

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE I.
METERS ON HAND.
CROWN.
By inch oo...   cc       aees  X
Aan OCC)  
ae  X)  
SA INCH  .      teen enees  
Sy inch  ... ce wc cw cw cc      OC)  
B  inch  ... cc        cence   cesees  
ane VCC) 
By INCH Lo.    cc     
B  inch ....         ees  
bY 
DR  sm  
DD  c.  inch  ...             
Linch Lec cc e     ees  
|  
DUPLEX.
SD  cc  
EMPIRE.
A  ,
om 
Re BCC) |
B  INCH  ... ec cc   ce      es |
  INCH Lo. cc      ees |
B  INCH Loe  ce e ete     wees :
Sq INCH Loe    ee     |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD 
a  
| cc  
Ws inch oo.  ec ec  cc ccec  
NC  
if
us; HERSEY.
: Minch ..... u ecceucceuccuucs  
" MiMCh vee   ceccuc  
ie Minch .....ececcecce eccucaces  
‘ Minch oo.  seves ses  
‘ Winch ...c.. ec cec ceuceas Minch oo...    uees  
Minch oo. .c cc   ecce euac cs  
Minch vo...         
Minch ...       ce ece   
Minch oo.      euss  
Linch oo...     ccc   
Mo inch oo.     ec ucc ucs inch oo.   ccceccs inch oo.      eccuceuceuceucs iMch oo. ce    cuas  
KING.
\ "Binh oo...  ce  ecucecuceaees  
® NCh Lecce   cc ccevanees  IMC oo.  ce ca ce  
Minh oo. see    uccecceuces  
cc  
MCh oo. eevee   ceccuccucc uceuues  
ec  
, MCA     cence     
,  MCh   cecaececuc  
MCA      een  
I

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
LAMBERT.
SQ INCH Loc      nscv es   
B  INCH  cc    sscce ens  
, STANDARD.
  
THOMSON. |
A  |
  inch ....    ect   cec |
TM inch Lo...      cence econ  
TRIDENT. |
  
Linch Loic       cence enees  
UNION. |
TUS inch ...c ce  ect  ence ns  
VWs inch  ...    cen eens  
BUNCH Lecce         
WORTHINGTON.
Sn 
MR  
Be INCH .e     sce scesccescces  am  X) 
Se INCH .ecce   sree ees ce eccenccvecs  
MS  
SR INCH woe ce     ec eesees  
BQ Inch wes     ce    esce  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

AED Souza wR ONS RE RAT Sh Oe ORL eaS LES TRO  

 (P  MCN anos pie edhe ey RENE Tine eek Oe eb TIOR. SS oais utice Sits  Suet lakhs He LUC ceri, cainees win Bsied ae Wow  ANE TORE De TRH: The   see kde eunoen aie Disa  
, ANU ame: ain ty nga Rees ene knale es  

DE HO Sos agian darts Bs  bak hace Koen  

PeplOGH gs tek laa wales Megiga goteg gin Maiatbars  

we MADEN, Soong ea eewarine eae eed BROS OS Ee EES  

Wa MUON os ssc gang Dave die uaneiwike whee Md Se B  

EAMES Sasa Peete in oe ag area ae ate is cateuainte Aoaive  

 inch TITTLE LEE  

  ANN, Sos uqitndna tie nhersatiekee ent ax   

ie MTL  ndapvinmnedwad Wate Deaee hickuieae  
Mes TBRDy gs wave x. horcks BN Iand  US AR IES  

UMN Soe anole Ada garecased  

WENA  eR Gaeheke ese   swe Pb ea Leta os  

oi TOTO $ions Rate Seid She sak tat ore  
Rs Pe ABOU acorn Weassuded emindcie kr men peed eae  
iw TIRE sera eens diac here   see mieths  

PHC nes trcnacd ideo ease nau See   wee  

POMON ic: osc agthwsts sas TAGE Us Rean seen  

aa MUU, cack nade bean Raters wate kera  
say  ineh Sumi bw eae eres MERI DieAM   Kae  
ee  inch pits eos cel Ede Soulmates chalaeinete Ban  
BDL RS oe ARS MEE Ce Ba 
TOMEI Fy ares geacearecaiosn taste lSteasastialeld atecacaask  

PIN tie cede Stages chat SP gt CON: AM  

sri  ineh PRS EAN $EGL SPAY ESG HEAR OR OES  
ox nee eva Meike Gale CSE eM ne CORES. 
apn  ineh Bsa ae sale ia at rahe ha daed den atbok cane  
ath  inch bia leg ene UNS RAR RS aera IS edly Aly ial ps eS  
ah MOTDOMY clots uetaiwin vad Parad ate MG se wANWRS  

st ineh Me siquisiuianndoabise veebpneo tees  

oon inch Lica Spe aN eB Oh Mead wh avis  

spr PR TNE SE  Guies eg Sh tae te cae ae vise agiaa te emma tbat  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
By imch ... cc          s ): By inch .... cc    cc cc    ec  eces /
 XC) .
BA imch wo.  cc      ec ec cc  ,
pC Cc) 
DC Cc) 
pI X) 
bE ”
pM  
Lo inch oo.     t    ee   :
Linch occ    cence cence s *
|  :
DG Cc)  
DG  
DR  
pC  Cn  
pC  SP  
DD 
BR CC)  
bn  
pC Oa  
bn Cn  
pC  c) Sn  
Linch Lo.   cc        Cc) 
bn  oS  
Linch Loc   cc cc   ec cc  ees TR  c) 
pA bo)  
pC  
Linch     ecc s§ 
pn  c)  
bn  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TQ imme lk           ec  
VY EM nce    cc    
WY in ET Cnc           
WY in ET Cn.       
We in EE Cn.     eccesc sees  
I  
a  
a  
as  
Se as  
Se  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE J.
Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Rated.
Art Studio  ...   ce      ec eaee  
Automobiles ....... cc         
Automobile stations ........ cc.     s  
Automatic dampers .........      cr  ce  
Awning manufacturers ...........  cere  
BakerieS ......       cc cc  cere cesses cce  
Barber shopS ......... es eces  
Band roOMm ........            
Banks  ... cc cc cc    cent  cree ces s  
Baths occ          cs eces  
Baths, extra ... cc.   ce   ce   cc ec esec LTB
Beer pumps .........     t  
Beer bottlers  ...    wee     
Blacksmith and carriage shops ........... |
Boarding houses .......     ce       |
Board of trade .......        ec  |
Boiler shop ......       cseccesve  
BotlerS co.cc cc   cweeee cette  ees  
Bonded warehouse .......   ec ec   s ]
Box ShOp co...     ec       ]
Bowling alleys .......        eet      
Brass foundry .........  eeene      
Broom manufactories .......     ce      
Brick yard...       ec        
Business college .......ce    teen eens  
Cattle co.cc     teen scecss  
Cement block works ...........cc   eevee  
Cement pipe Works ........       ]
Cemeteries co...          teen    
Churches .. cc.  cc ce    nee    
Church Organs .......      re eer ®  
Cigar manifactories .......  ... c    

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Club houses  ... ..     cc     ese ees  )
Club roomS  ...          ete  eaes  
Cold storage plamt ..... ec       ceace  
Coal and wood yards ....... ss ncs ecs  
Compressed air PUMPS ........    ccecrecs  
ComnventS cc...             seene q
CreamerieS  ... cc cc ce  cc     eet   
Dentists co...     cc cc wc cc cc cc cc tect   enees  
DressmakerS  ...     cc cc     etc     
Drug stOres ...           seen eens ,
Dve Works ...  c. cc  ec ce cc     ees  
Electric car sprinkler ..........         
Electric car hydrants .........      
Elevators ,pistoOn ......... cc      ences  
Engines... cc        eet teen een  
Express COMPANY ......            
Families oo...      ect  cers ecesc  L, 
Fountain and rotary sprinkler .............. e:  
Furniture ware roOMS ..........cc    ce es  
Gas holder ......     etccree  eens  
Gate house, H. W. P. Co. .......   ec      
Glazed paper Works .........c.eccc ce  
Green houses ....... cc      ceccecs  
Grist mills ... cc ce ce ce cc ec ec    
Gymnasiums ....      ce s  
Hair dressers .......c    ec   eccec cas  
Harness works .....-.  ece es  
Horses oo.      ec sce es .  
Hosece     esessecesces 
Hydraulic press ......ceccecceccuc nes  
Iee dealers  ...   cc   cc    eeuucucuvees  
Iron Works  .cc  ecc eccecuvuaes  
Laundries... ec      vuseeuaceus  
Lithographers         ne ec aes  

go REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Livery stables .......         ween  
LOCOMOTIVES  ...         ss  
Lodging rooms ....... sess  
Log Cabin  ... cc     cenct cere cectes  

. Lumber yards .........    es  
Machine shop .......c. vccs  
Meat markets .........  cc ecss. Ol

) Millinery parlors ..........    ecce es  
MotorS ...            cscs ecces §
Mould coolers ......cc         ceses  
Municipal milk station .........      ece  
OfficeS  ...     cence  ec ec ences ccsse  
Parks...      cc    nec  ssese  
Passenger and freight depots ..........eces  
Photo studios  ...         cw wet   ences  
Planing mills ....... cc     cc cc    csees  
Plating Works .......       tens s  
Playgrounds .......      ec    s  
Plumbers  ...   epee  ce   tcc re  |
Pool TOOMS  ... cc cc     cette   ,
Printing offices .......     cc ce    ees  ]
Public bath rooms .........     cc    ees ,
Public drinking fountains ..........  q
Public reading rooms ..........   cc  cc ees ,
Public sanitarieS ...... cc cc cc ce ecw   ce s ,
Restaurants  ... ...           ce cc  
Road rollers .......         
Round houses ........       cence  cecces  
Rotary washerS ..... ucces  
SalOONS Loc          ccecsc  
Sausage manufactories .......      cs  
School houses ......cce ees  
SS) |
Slaughter house ....... e ece |
Soda bottlers  ... cc   cw ce     cn  
Soda fountains .....    ce  ce nc ce ec ces .

ls EET
|
REPORT OF WATER BOARD g!
| Skating TINK ..... ce    t cence  
Stamd PIPES ......   cc       s dD
Steam and gas fitters .......  ...   wee    
Steam stone polishing .......... cc      
Stone crusher ........              
Stone ards  ...   cree rene tee cence  
StorehouseS .......         cence ew   
Street sprinkling carts .........       
Tailor SHOPS ......cc     sectces |
| Tanks for glaSS@S .....        ce !
| Telephone exchange ......... e ecs |
Theatres .....          ess ecsee |
Tin ShOpS  ...        ec ec    
Tumbler washers .......cc.     esvees |
Undertakers  ... ..    cet   ec cs  
Urinals coc   cc cc   ce      rece eens  
Vacuum water cleaners ......... cec     D
Vegetable sprinklers .......... ecceccec ]
Veterinary hospital .........   ence ceues  
Wading pools ....... ece     s  
Water closetS .... ececves  
Water closets, CXtr@ .. cc.      
Water Power Co. ...        eeveeetec   
Watering troughs ....... ece    s  
Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Metered.
‘wa lmshouse ee           
Malpaca Mills .......         
Mauger Bit Works  ...         ees  
Mautomatic dampers ........           
Mutomobiles  ...     ce   
Automobile stations .....       eens  
Bakery oe. ece    uec nes  
. :

g  RERORT OF WATER BOARD
Barber shops   ecmewer teen aces eens  
Bar Works ......          cenees  
Baths...       ce      sees eescess  
Beer bottling ....... ce  t  cence ence eens  
Beer pumps ........  cc    s 
| Belt Shops  ... cc     ce   ec  cc    nee  
Blacksmith shop ......          eens  
Blanket mill  ... cc            ]
Bleach and dye tanks .........     eens  
Book binding .......        eens  
Boilers  ... cc        nese eev  Ot 
: Boiler shopS ........ cc  ewe cere    ees   
Brass foundry .........c      ne   
Brass window furnishing .............c  ]
; Chemical laboratories .........  c. cc    ences  
Churches  ... .... cc   ce    ecaes  )
Church organs .......               
City Wall oo...          
Club rooms .... cc cc    t    
Cold storage plants ......  ...   ce     
Colored cotton  ...              ]
Compressed air PUMPS ......... cc    d
Condensers ....ee ce    ec       
ConventsS ...  ...        s  
Coton mills .... cc  ec ce       eeaee  )
Coton thread and twine manufactories.............  
Crabbing machines ........      
Crimping machines .........  ...    ce   
Dandy roll manufactory  ...  ...   cs  
Dentists ...         ee  
Domestig science oo...           
Drug stores  ...         enee  
Dye Works  ...  ...       nce ween  as  
Electric car station  ...  ce    cence  
Electric light station  ...         l
Electric power stations ......... ec     

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Blectrotyping .......        ces  
Elevators, by pistin ........ e ecces 
Elevators, by motor ........ eccecce ecs  
Engines .....    cc     cc  ece    
Envelope manufactory .......- ecce ecs  
ExpresS COMPANY ........ ecs  
Families  ... cc   cc       ceccsscesee  
Fire engine houses .......ceccecceccecccses  
Fountains ....... cc        es  
Gas Works ...... cc        cecr erer   
Gas holders          ee  
Glazed paper works .........     
Green house .......cc       ecc cs  
Grindstones .....     ce     cc  
GYMMNASIUMS ......     ec    en s  
Halls o.oo          s  
Horses ......         sscces Cr  
Hospitals ...... cc   ce       
SC  
Home for aged people ......... sc  
Hot water boilers .........  ce    ces  
Hydraulic press .....   eccs  
Hygienic drinking fountains ...........cc    
Tron foundries ........ ecc   accs  
Job printing ......           cence  
Laundries .....       cceccenceus  
Livery stables .......c       ec  
Lodging rooms ........ ees scseses  
Lumber yards .....        cecc   
Machine shops ....... ecec reves  
Mattress works ....... s eevecss  
Meat markets ......     sce    cence s  
Motors  ...   cc       eces trece  
Nursery oo... occ      c s  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Offices Loe      recs cc  eccscs e 
Opera houses  ...  ve sscseces  
Paper machineS ......... sc  
Paper mills ........       ee  es  
Paper pad manufactories ......... ecec  
Passenger depot .......     te nccec ]
Planing mills ....  ...        
Plumbers  ...       cect   eevee ers rs ]
Plush manufactory .........       
Police COUrt  ...         st ]
Post O C@ oo. cc      cc ce ce te       ]
Pork packing houses ........       
Pool rooms .....     ec   ete       
Print machines .........cce    seen    
Primers for pumps .......-.cecceccecec  
Public bath houses ......... ee ec  s  
Public bath rooms ........   ee     a
Publie library ..... cc     cc   ence      
Public sanitary ...... cc   ec     eens  
Reading room ... cc  ecw  ee teen eet   
Restaurant ...                }
Rotary washerS ........     nserreree?  
Sal ons  ...    ec           t  
School houses ...c ecc ct  
Screen plate works ........      erent  
Sealing wax manufactory .......    ? ]
Na)  ):  
Silk mills co... ec ece     D
Singeing machineS ........ ee        
Size tubs cc  eccuceccecectstt f
Soap tank co...           erent  
Soda bottling .......            nett  
Soda fountains .....           erent y
Spraving machineS ........        rtee?  
Spring bed manufactory ..........c  ]
Steam and gas fitters  ... cc       

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Steaming machineS ........cc   ce   ween ees  
Steam pump manufactory ........     ns  
Steam stone cutting .......   ence cence eens  
Stone yard .....        teeter     
Tanks for glasseS .......      eet s  
Tailor SHOPS ......cc    ec ec ec ec e st cec  
Testing flume .........         
Telegraph officeS ...... cc     eeneens .
Tissue paper manufactory ........-.e  
Tumbler washers ...... cceces  
Urinals  ...             sescscces  
Water closets ...          eesees  
Water wheel governors .........-ee       eens  )
Water rolls for Wire .........       
Wire mills oc... cc       een  
Wire Weaving ......     cere   eeneens  
Woolen mills  ...            
Yo ML Co AL    cc cence       
YW. Co      ence    ]

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

TABLE OF RAINFALL IN INCHES AT THE SEVERAL
RESERVOIRS FOR  |
Whiting u
‘Ponds Reservoir Bienes” Reservoir  
January, .
February,  
March, ;
April, :
May,  
June, ;
July, ;
August, \
September,  
October, .
November, .
December,  
Total, ;
No overflow having been recorded at Ashley or Whiting "
Street reservoirs during the year  the overflow table has
been omitted.
The estimated total run-off of the Fomer watershed for
the year is gallons. |
This amount is approximate only, as the weir on the |
Manhan brook was not in working order for some months ;
during the year.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

HEIGHT OF WATER AT WHITING STREET RESERVOIR,  .

December  rd, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet  
inches.

January  th, feet inches;  th, feet inch;  st,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.

February  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

March  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inch.

April Ist, feet;  th, feet inches;  th, feet;  nd,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

May  th, feet inches;  th, feet inch;  th, feet
  inches;  th, feet inches.

June  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.

July  st, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches.

August  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inch;  th, feet inches.

September  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches.

October  th, feet ‘inches;  th, feet inches;  st,  
feet inches;  th, feet. :

November  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

Average height for year, feet inches.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY PONDS,  .
December  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, d
feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet inches.
January  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  st, feet
  inches;  th, feet inches.
February  th, feet inches; llth, feet;  th, feet :
inches;  oth, feet inehes.
March  th, feet inehes;  th, feet inches;  th, feet
  inches;  th, feet inches. |
April Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
May  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, feet
  inches;  th, feet inches.
June  rd, feet;  th, feet inches;  th, feet  
, inches;  th, feet inches.
July Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, feet
  inch;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
August  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inch.
September  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  rd, feet;  th, feet inches.
October  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.
November  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
Average height for vear, feet inehes.
Height of overtlow, feet inches.
—

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE

WATER WORKS, NOVEMBER .

Population by Federal census of .

Date of construction,  .

Works owned by the city.

Source of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage reservoir, three and one-half miles from the eity,
two mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the
southwest branch of the Manhan river—intake reservoir
at Southampton.

Mode of supply—gravity. ,

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
" FINANCIAL.
Receipts.
A. Water rates, fixed ....................  ,
B. Water rates, metered ................ ;
C. Total receipts from water.............  :
D. Service pipe ...........c   cce cence :
E. Sale of bonds ............-ec  )
F. All other sources .........   cec  |
G. Gross receipts ............cc  H. Cash balance, December ........  
$  :
Expenditures.
AA. Management and repairs.............. 
BB. Services and repairs ............:
CC. Running expenses for  .............  !
DD. Interest on bonds .............  :
EE. Total maintenance .............ee  .
FF. City of Holyoke, taxes................ zm
GG. Bonds ........ sce   ecen   
HH. Transfer to sinking funds............. z
II. Materials, labor, ete. ........... cc eens  
JJ. Cash on hand and in banks............  
KK. Balance to construction .......... . 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
CONSTRUCTION. —

Balance .....      
LL. Extension main pipe ....... 
MM. Hydrants ..................  
NN. Reservoirs .................  
OO. Meters ...........     
PP. Land purchases ............  

——————  

QQ. Depreciation, per cent...............  

RR. Net cost of works to date..............  

SS. Bonded debt ............ ..  -.  

W. Value of sinking funds, Nov. ..  

CONSUMPTION.

 Population,  Water Dept. census.... Population on line of pipe, Water Dept.

CENSUS oo...    ce  teens d

 Population supplied, Water Dept. census.  

 Total gallons consumed for year.........  
d. Passed through meters A...............
 Passed through meters B...............

 

f. Average daily consumption, gallons.....  

 Gallons per day to each inhabitant...... |
 Gallons per day to each consumer )....  Gallons per day to service tap...........  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and cast iron
and lead lined.
 From one-half inch to thirty )
inches. :
 Extended, feet large. :
 Discontinued ..........  n none ;
 Mains,  inch and upward................ miles :
 Temporary mains, less than inches....... miles |
 Total length of distribution............... miles :
 Number of leaks in city,  in Fomer line, |
 Cost of repairs per mile............... ..  |
 Hydrants added ........ cc      }
 Hydrants now in use (public) and ,
private hydrants (see Table G). ,
  Hydrants frozen ........   ec e   :
 Hydrants repaired ............cc  es  Hydrants replaced ..............  eens |
 Stop gates added ..........    :
 Stop gates now in use (see foot of Table E) :
 Stop gates less than  -inch...............  Number of blow-off gates................  Range of pressure on main at office, per day ;
and night, to pounds. .
Main street, per day and night, to  
pounds.
 Stand pipes in use .......         Gates repaired .......  cere    Gates replaced .......       none |
 Gates taken OUt .....      s none |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
SERVICE.
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, cast iron,
lead lined, tin lined and galvanized.
 From to  -inch size of service.
 Leaks ........   cc     Cleaned and repaired ................  Frozen services thawed out.............-. ]
 Replaced services ............ececc  Extended ........... ecce sc feet
 Discontinued .......... cc   ce   Total now in use (estimated).............  feet
 Services added ..........     cs  Number now in use...........e    Average length of service................ feet
All sizes Average cost of service in  .... to in.
| incl’sive Meters added .........    ee  Meters discontinued .............. Meters repaired ............e  s  Meters now in use ...........cce     d
 Indicators on elevators and organs........  Service boxes repaired ..............  Water shut off .........       d
 Water turned on ..........ccecc   Leaks—faucets,  water closets,  ...  Leaks repaired—faucets,  water closets,
bs  Valves sealed in mills ................  Seals broken in mills ................  

\
  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
! CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO NO| VEMBER .
Water Commissioners for Construction of the ‘Work—
| Elected by the Town of Holyoke.
William B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February |
, John Delaney, elected March term expired
! February .
! John E. Chase, elected March term expired
 .
! Dennis Higgins, elected March term expired
February .
| Joel Russell, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ,
I  term expired February .
: J. P. Buckland, Clerk of the Board, elected March  ,
:  term expired February .
| L. P. Bosworth, successor to John E. Chase, elected
| March term expired February .
C. W. Ranlet, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.
! Engineers and Superintendents for Construction of Works.
Messrs. Shedd and Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting
engineers.
E. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.
Davis Ellsworth, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis
May,  .
Moses Stevens, pipe inspector.
Water Commissioners Elected by the City Council.
J. P. Buekland, elected February term expired
February .
Dennis Higgins, elected February term expired
January .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
James G. Smith, elected February deceased
July .
J. A. Sullivan, elected February term expired
January .
James F. Allyn, elected February term expired
January  .
C. H. Heywood, elected July term expired
January .
Timothy Merrick, elected January term expired January .
Maurice Lynch, elected January term expired
January .
James E. Delaney, elected January resignation
accepted January .
Moses Newton, elected January term expired
January .
James J. Curran, elected January resignation
accepted February .
Martin P. Conway, elected January term expired January .
Charles D. Colson, elected January term expired February .
John J. Sullivan, elected January term expired
February .
Thomas F. Greaney, elected January term expired February |
Joseph A. Skinner, elected January term expired February .
Maurice Lynch, elected January deceased January |
Arthur M. French, elected February term expired February .
Hugh McLean, elected January term expired
| February .
Michael J. Doyle, elected January term expired
| February .

:
: REPORT OF WATER BOARD .
| |. Thomas J. Carmody, elected January 
Jesse E. Sheldon, elected January .
‘Thomas J. Lynch, elected January .
, Officers of the Holyoke Water Works.
. Moses Stevens, Superintendent, appointed February  ,
|  term expired April resigned.
‘Daniel Heywood, -Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October sucded by E. ‘M. Bolton.
| E. M. Bolton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned. |
, E. P. Clark, Registrar, appointed July resigned
! January :
J. C. Sullivan, Registrar, appointed January ;
resigned January |
! A, E. Pickup, Registrar, appointed February .
John D. Hardy, Superintendent, appointed May ;
term expired April :
John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent, appointed May  ,
:  Sot vo :
E. M. Bolton, Inspector, appointed July service
terminated March .
James F. Cleary, Inspector, appointed March .
. Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector appointed March .
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, appointed October .
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector, appointed October .
Daniel F. Cray, Inspector, appointed October .
| |
|
|
|
| |
|

Holyoke School Committee |

 ORGANIZATION FOR  .

, Office, Chestnut Street.

Hon. JOHN J. WHITE; Mayor.
TERENCE O’DONNELL, .
‘Chairman.
JOHN L. RILEY,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.

oS SO ae Term-Expires January
At OOM AS O’DONNEL[E,. .-.:..  
argé UTHOMAS S.CHILDS,. 
Ward I—JOHN F. KENNEDY, .., |.  
Ward  —GEORGE W. MESSIER,. ..—....  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH,,. .. ...  
Ward  —-MAURICE G. DONAHUE, nr  
Ward  —JOHN J. O’CONNOR,. .. a,  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH, oe  
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS,  

: Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  :
Office, Chestnut Street. :
Regular Meeting, First Monday in the Month. 
(January, First Tuesday.) 
Hon. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor. ,
TERENCE  ’DONNELL, SE
Chairman. |
: JOHN L. RILEY, ,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.  
} Term Expires January
  TERENCE O’DONNELL,.  
At Large THOMAS S.CHILDS,. WR
Ward JOHN F. KENNEDY, ......—s— B®
Ward  —-WILFRED G. DEROIN,. WR 
Ward  —AUGUST H.BAUSH,  
Ward  -MAURICE G.DONAHUE, .. Ward  —JOHN J. O'CONNOR, Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH, tod ;
Ward  —EDWIN D.WELLS,. J

Standing Committees for  

High School— Messrs. Childs, Baush, O’Donnell.

First District—Messrs. Donahue, Childs, O’Connor.

Second District—Messrs. Baush, Lynch, Wells.

Third District—Messrs. Kennedy, Deroin, O’Donnell.

Rules— Messrs. O’Connor, Deroin, Baush.

Finance and Accounts—Messrs. Donahue, Wells, O’Donnell.

Salaries— Messrs. Childs, O’Connor, Lynch.

Text Books and Courses of Study—Messrs. Lynch,
Baush, O’Connor.

Printing and Supplies— Messrs. Baush, Donahue, O’Donnell.

Music—Messrs. Lynch, Childs, Wells.

Drawing and Writing—Messrs. Wells, Donahue, Kennedy.

Health and Physical Culture—Messrs. Kennedy, Childs,
Deroin.

Evening Schools—Messrs. Wells, Donahue, O’Donnell.

Attendance, Census and Truancy—Messrs. Deroin, Donahue, O’Connor.

Building— Messrs. Baush, Kennedy, O’Donnell.

Social Center—Messrs. Donahue, Wells, O’Donnell.

Calendar
} SCHOOL YEAR,  TERMS. 

Winter Term begins January .

Winter Term ends February .

Spring Term begins March .

Spring Term ends April .

Summer Term begins May .

Summer Term ends June .

Fall Term begins September .

Fall Term ends December .

Winter Term begins December .

VACATIONS.

February to March inclusive.

April to May inclusive.

June to September inclusive.

December to December inclusive.

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, New Year’s Day, Washington’s Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of
July, Labér’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day
with the day following, Christmas Day. :

Regular Meetings of the School Committee—The first
Monday evening in each month at eight o’clock, except in
January, when the monthly meeting will be the first Tuesday.

Standing Committee Meetings—Upon notification. —

REPORT OF
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

The past year has been one full of events—events of
great importance to the welfare of our schools.

The new twelve-room building on North Chestnut street
was occupied April  rd. This building is named after a
distinguished, greatly beloved, and public spirited citizen,
the late William Whiting. The shower baths and fresh air
rooms  this building are new features for our grammar
schools. The attendance at these baths is away beyond our
expectations. The fresh air school rooms are greatly appreciated by the teachers and pupils, and the fact that other
cities are taking this matter up would indicate that such
rooms are to play an important part in the school life of the
children. very pleasing feature was the opening of this
building to the publie the Sunday before it was occupied by
the pupils. An interesting and also instructive feature was
a session of all the classes in this building on an evening, so
that parents and friends who are busy during the day might
be able to observe modern school in actual operation in a
modern building. These features increased the interest on
the part of the public in our schools. All the rooms in this
building are oceupied.

The new Ingleside building was opened to the publie
with most, appropriate exercises on December  th,  ,
and was oeeupied by the pupils the same month. This
building is fireproof and model of its kind. It has four
rooms, two rooms being used at present. It is expected
that this building will meet the needs of the vicinity for
some time to come.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
A twelve-room building is being erected in Elmwood
which will greatly relieve the congested condition there.
This school is named after Joseph F. Metcalf, one of our
highly esteemed and public spirited citizens. There will be
features in this building which did not enter into the con- :
struction of the other grammar schools of the city: The |
school rooms will occupy two stories on either side of the |
building, the auditorium being on the first floor through the |
center. By this arrangement the auditorium will receive
the full ‘benefit of light through ‘a glass roof. new depar- ;
ture in the construction of this building will be well-  
lighted manual training room in the basement. This build- .
ing will also be equipped with shower baths. The interior of the old East Dwight Street School, which :
was unoccupied for several years, has been thoroughly re-  
constructed and today it is quite up-to-date in its equipment; it relieves the congestion in the West Street building. This /
school was opened November  th, and seven of the eight rooms are already occupied.  
The luneh counter at the High School has been reor- ganized and is now under the direct supervision of the do-  
mestiec science department. We are pleased to note that
Mrs. Peter O’Connell, the chef, is an important factor in the great success of the lunch ‘as now furnished. It is the aim .
of the Committee to furnish light lunch of nourishing food at cost.
A printed course of study for the High School was given
out last June. This course of study as outlined by the Superintendent and High School Principal meets long-felt .
want. Now the parents, in conjunction with their children, .
can select the course most suitable to the needs of the child,  
and that too before the child enters the High Sehool. |
The Committee, co-operating with the Playground Com- ,
mission, allowed the shower baths in the William Whiting "
building to be used by the children in that vicinity during
the summer vacation. This of course was done under proper oly
a

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITIEE  
Elmw ws; supervision. The results obtained are more than sufficient
on tae evidence that ‘the move was popular one.
reat The hall in the Hamilton Street building was condemned
UWL by state inspector of buildings as being unsafe in case of
the et ire. Here the proper changes have been made to comply
» Te with the state law.
ett The interiors of the South Chestnut Street and Nonoring tuck Street buildings were painted during the summer vacaNh rece’ ton New curtains were placed in these buildings as well
an ders inthe Highland building. metal ceiling was put in the
» We basement of the Highland building.
ys Mu The grounds about the Ingleside building have been
greled and substantial retaining wall built. We wish to
jhe: thank the Board of Publie Works for these improvements
gy Well as others of minor importance. ,
poe After several montths of consideration and careful in  To ‘stigation the maximum salaries of teachers in the grammar
ene and Primary grades were raised and the time in
Which the maximum salary can be attained was extended
mas tom five to seven years, the new schedule to take effect
fr December Ist,  The maximum salary of the women
etal Principals was raised to the present maximum
jp Ue heing An increase of  per year is to be alac lowed until the the maximum salary of  is attained.
ne The new schedule goes into effect January Ist,  The
‘alaries of some of the teachers in the High School were ad  “anced during the year to conform more nearly with the
. salaries in other cities. To retain good teacher any length
of lime it is necessary and wise to make the salary as attraclve as in other cities the size of Holyoke. It would seem
vat the advance in salaries to our teachers is an equitable
e,
Another matter taken up by the School Committee was
the Pensioning of teachers who might be broken down in
. health after twenty-five vear of service in our schools or
- who. because of old age, would be unable to go on with their

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

work. The Pension Act is permissible in cities in this state
where the voters accept the provisions of the act. This act
was rejected at the last city election.

It has been voted by the Committee to open rooms for
industrial training in the Highland, Morgan, West Street
and Elmwood buildings. These rooms will probably be
ready for oceupaney about February Ist next. This opportunity will be offered to the pupils in the seventh and eighth
grades, the ninth grade pupils already receiving this training at the High School. This departure is in pursuance of

; policy outlined by the Superintendent and Committee to
the effect that our boys and girls may be developed along
those industrial lines to which their minds are bent,—then
when they leave school they will already have good start
in life. |

Another far-reaching step is the vocational work in the
Evening High School. This work affords our young men
and young women fine opportunity to increase their efficiency. Where the pupil is over seventeen years of age,
and when the pupil is engaged in similar work during the
day, one-half of the expense of carrying on the work is borne
by the state. The vocational classes in which the expense
is shared by the state are as follows: Cooking, carpentry,
steam engineering and mechanical drawing. We fully appreciate the great work which P. J. Garvey, principal of the
Evening High and Industrial School, and his eorps of teachers are accomplishing for those who are striving to make
the most of their opportunities to the end that they may be
equipped as far as possible for the stern realities of life. It
certainly is hopeful and inspiring ‘to see so many young men
and voung women improving their ‘time to the utmost.

The Committee, co-operating with the Playground Commission, are looking up the matter of opening the halls of
some of the school buildings this coming winter as neighbor.
hood centers for social life and welfare. It is hoped to open
these halls once week or so.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE IIs
It will be necessary to erect central grammar school
building at no distant day in place of the Appleton Street
building. This matter is gone into fully in the Superintendent’s report.
The great interest and devotion displayed by-the teachers generally for their work is worthy of mention. It is |
pleasing to note the hearty co-operation of the principals,
teachers and the Committee with the Superintendent, in his
earnest, able and successful efforts to increase the efficiency
of our schools.
For details of the school work we refer you to the reports of the Superintendent and heads of departments. |
MAURICE G. DONAHUE,
DENNIS F. LYNCH,
EDWIN D. WELLS,
Committee on Annual Report.

REPORT OF THE
Superintendent and Secretary.
| To the School Committee of Holyoke:

I herewith present my third annual report as Superintendent of Schools, it being the forty-eighth of the series.

I. FINANCES.

The appropriation and receipts for the year amounted
to the department spent closing
the year with an overdraft of The expenditures
exded those of the preceding year by .

Among the larger factors in this increase may be mentioned the growth in both the day and evening school systems which will be referred to later in this report,—a growth
necessitating larger outlays for salaries and supplies than
could have been anticipated year ago; also the additional
expenses incident to the opening of three new school buildings. Important and expensive repairs and improvements
have been made in many of the buildings, amounting to
$ while the schools have been supplied with recently
adopted text books, the cost of which amounted to .

II. ACCOMMODATIONS.

In the short space of one year Holyoke has eliminated
congestion in three districts. The Ingleside School was
opened December  th,  the William Whiting School
April  rd,  and the East Dwight Street School November  th,  What this has meant in health and educational opportunity to the children of these sections is beyond
ealeulation. doubt if many other cities the size of Holyoke
ean equal this record. The completion, in June next, of a

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
new grammar school now in course of erection will make
four buildings opened in eighteen months. These facts testify eloquently to the city’s generosity and noble purpose.

With the opening of the new building in Elmwood next
June, Holyoke will have provided adequately for most sections of the city for number of years to come as indicated
by the following brief statement of present conditions :—

(a) The West Street School section, including the
West Street and East Dwight Street Schools, has ‘a total of
twenty-four class rooms of which twenty-three are occupied.
The classes are sufficiently small to enable us to care for the
gradual increase which may be reasonably expected in the
next few years.

(b) The Morgan School district, comprising the Morgan, Sargeant Street, Hamilton Street and Park Street
Schools, has forty-four class rooms of which forty-three are
occupied, and the School: Committee has recently directed
that the remaining room be used for class of backward
children. The fact that membership in the schools of this
district has not increased in recent years would justify the
view that no additional accommodations will be needed for
anumber of years.

(ce) Springdale is well provided for in its eight-room
building. All the rooms are occupied but the classes are
sufficiently small to permit of fifty or more pupils being
admitted to the school without over-crowding.

(d) Ingleside has two of the four class rooms in its
new building occupied. As each of the classes comprises
three or more grades and the present number of pupils
(eighty) seem too large for two teachers to handle efficiently,
the district committee has recently voted to recommend the
Opening of third room as soon as the necessary arrangements can be made. Judging from recent growth, it is probable that within few years the four rooms at Ingleside will
be occupied as class rooms.

(e) The Highland section, comprising the Highland

|
. REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
and Nonotuck Street Schools, has three vacant class rooms,
two in the Highland and one in the Nonotuck. There are
two other vacant rooms in the Nonotuck. Street School on
the third floor but they ought not to be used unless the need
is urgent. Recent growth in the Nonotuck Street School will
make it necessary to open at least one additional room in
this district. eG ”
— (f) The eight-room building in Oakdale is fully oecupied Dut the classes are small, allowing plenty of room for
future growth.  Do,
. (ge). Elmwood will probably have twenty-three classes
to provide for in September, which will leave only five of
the large class rooms in the two large buildings in that dis: trict vacant. At the present rate of growth it will not be
long before all these rooms are occupied.
. (h) The central district of the. city, comprising the
Appleton Street, Elm Street, William Whiting, Ewingville
-and South Chestnut Street Schools, is the only section for
which the city has.not fully provided... These. buildings contain forty-five class. rooms suitable for school use, all of
which are occupied. This does not inelude the rooms on the
third floor of the South Chestnut Street School, two of which
are occupied. These rooms on the third floor of the South
, Chestnut Street School are unfit for use from the standpoint
of light, health and safety and are. being used only because
of necessity. Two years ago, in September  we were
occupying forty-two class rooms in this central district in
the five buildings named above, including one outside room.
In two of these rooms the classes were so large as to make
it necessary to employ two teachers in each. Today we are
occupying forty-seven class rooms in this same section, an
increase of five. With all the suitable rooms in the buildings in use, any further increase in membership must be
accommodated in rooms already oceupied by making the
classes larger or by transferring the children to the Highland and Elmwood districts. While the distance from the

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
lene section of the city to the schools in these residential
coun. would not be considered too far to walk in the
dren ty, Many Holyoke parents object to sending their chil: far to school and the School Department is quickly
  ade aware of this sentiment when such policy is atoe tempted. Such has been the experience in transferring the
overflow from this central section to the Morgan and Kirt. land Schools. a
a It is well for growing city to provide school accommo- |
  dations ahead of the actual need, and the fact that there will
” bea few vacant rooms in the Highland and Elmwood sec: tits next September should not deter us. from making ade  quate and satisfactory provision for this central section.
- Aclose study of the situation leads me to believe that
lhlroke ought not delay in perfecting plans. for better :
a school accommodations in the central section of the city.
ML The plan so often referred to publicly of replacing the Ap- |
i pleton Street, building with larger and more modern struc- ture is one which should be seriously considered at no distant
date. The present Appleton Street building has eleven
, rooms, all occupied, three: of them: on the third floor. It is
| too small for present needs, this fact compelling us to have |
? the classes larger than in any other building in the city. On |
December  st,  the school membership was in eleven
. tooms, an average of over forty-one pupils to aroom. The
. averages of the four other grammar buildings on the same :
. date were, Elmwood  Highland  Morgan  West
os Street  These figures do not include kindergartens or
oe Special classes for backward cehildren,—only the regular
* grades. It will be possible to make the Elmwood classes
L slightly smaller when the new Joseph Metcalf School is
ct available. The small classes at West Street date only from |
. the opening of the East Dwight Street building. With the :
” new Elmwood School completed four of the five grammar
fe districts in Holyoke will have modern buildings for these
“ highest grammar grades, this central section being the ex- ,
.
;

'
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

| ception. Since it is practically certain that within short
| time new grammar school will ‘be needed, would it not be
wise to decide upon the location without delay and then
take as much time in drawing the plans as work of such
importance requires? This central grammar school ought
| to be large enough to take the overflow from the surrounding schools. The new building should be planned with
careful regard to the special needs of this central section,
having its own sewing, cooking and manual traiming rooms,
shower baths and an auditorium. It should be planned for
| evening school and community purposes as well as for day
school use. Economy in school house construction means
best and most complete utilization of space, conservation of
child health, and wide adaptation to the needs of the
community. The more study, thought and planning we put
! into our school buildings, the more we shall get out of them.
| Even though work on such building might not commence
for year or more, would urge the wisdom of early planning especially in view of the character and importance of

| this school.

Ill. DAY SCHOOLS.

| All of the first grade teachers are now using the Aldine
method of teaching reading. This unifies the work of this
grade and enables children who move from one district to
 another during the school year to change schools without
appreciable loss in this study. The importance of having
a definite and uniform method of teaching reading in the
| primary grades is better appreciated when we consider that
there are nearly children ‘in the first grade alone, about
two and one-half times the number in the ninth grade. There
are about children in the three primary grades, this
being nearly twice the membership of the three highest
grammar grades. This plan of making the aims and methods
more definite ‘and more nearly umform can be applied to
other studies and extended to the work of other grades with

REPURT OF SCHOOL’ COMMITTEE  
profit to the schools. The need is most apparent in the work
of the four or five lower grades where the power to speak
and read English and to work accurately in number should
be developed as quickly as possible.

A new course  geography has been outlined and fully |
discussed with the prineipals. In spite of the fact that
printed copies of the course in detail are not yet available,
many prineipals, using the general outline distributed
several mouths ago, are working it out very successfully.
In addition to the usual topies studied under this subject,
this course places stronger emphasis upon home geography .
than the old course. Certain features relating to Holyoke
are definitely assigned for study to each grade from the
fourth to the eighth inclusive, to be accompanied by map
drawing. In grade four the children make simple maps of
the school neighborhood and the city, indicating the impor- |.
tant streets and the places of greatest interest to them, such 
as, the child’s home, the school, the church, the playground,
the river, the dam, the canals, City Hall, High School, Publie Library, railroad station, the fire station, electric car
lines, ete. In the fifth grade special study is made of the
canal system and the paper industry, maps ‘being made on
Which the paper mills are located. To the sixth grade is
assigned the study of the textile industry, maps being made
as in the preceding grades. In this grade also the children
learn the value of clay beds, sandstone and trap rock. The
seventh grade pupils study especially the iron and woodworking industries of Holyoke and draw maps of Holyoke
and the surrounding country, while the eighth grade makes
amore thorough and detailed study of the city as an industrial and commercial center. Very helpful maps and blue
prints of Holyoke have been furnished to the schools in
generous supply by the City Engineer.

Geography and histury alike become more real when
they relate to or are closely connected with the child’s
known world. In both of these studies we must deal for

|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE |
the most part with matters quite remote in distance or time |
and thorough study of the child’s narrow world will make
it easier for him to acquire clear and lasting conception
of the world beyond his present horizon. The Holyoke |
child interprets the Mississippi River through his knowledge ,
of the Connecticut. The muddy waters of the Mississippi,
its annual flood, the frequent shifting of its channel, the
nature of the land along its sides, are all duplicated at our |
door. One who has first hand knowledge of one of our
large Connecticut Valley farms ean better understand }
Mississippi Valley farm. To the child, the Alps, the Andes
and the Rockies are but our Mount Holyoke range enlarged,
and Mount Tom typifies the world’s highest peaks. A
thorough and systematie study of Holyoke would be valuable even if it served only as an aid to better understanding of more distant places and peoples, but it serves more
important and higher purpose. Every Holyoke child should
know and feel, through personal observation and study intelligently directed, that nature has lavished her richest
gifts in healthful climate, water power and scenery upon
this city. The more of this the children know and feel, the |
more keen and intelligent will be their interest and the more
intense their loyalty to their home city, and true community
loyalty is strongly symptomatic of good citizenship and is
removed but step from loyalty to the nation.

In the High School, among the important changes which ,
were made during the year should be mentioned four: The
establishment of High School lunch under the direct management of the School Department, getting out printed
eourse of study, revising the course of study in science, and |
appointing an extra teacher to assist pupils who find their |
freshman work too difficult.

The establishing of this lunch department has involved
considerable work and an outlay of several hundred dollars
for equipment, but aside from this initial expense the de :
partment has been entirely self-paying. As now conducted, ;

REPORT OF SCHOUL COMMITTEE  
it will mean much in the improved health of the students.

The printed course of study, prepared by the principal,
will make for definiteness and permanency in high school
aims and its distribution each year among the pupils of the
ninth grades and their parents will permit of more careful
and intelligent choice of courses before the pupils enter the
school.

The revision of the science course was based largely
upon the desire to make this work appeal to larger number of students during their earlier years in the High School
and to teach the elements of several sciences, in their most
practical applications, to those who might have to leave at
the end of the first or second year. Elementary science is
required during the first year, biology or physiography the
second, and chemistry and advanced physics during the
third and fourth years respectively. Physiography, which
has been such strong course in our High School for many
years, has accomplished much in spreading among the High
School students that knowledge of their home section which
is SO important an aim of the new geography course for the
graces.

The assignment of an extra teacher to the High School.
whose duty consists in interesting herself in backward students in the freshman class and in giving svmpathetie and
skilful assistance, ought to prove very beneficial and replace .
failure and worry with success and happiness.

IV. EVENING SCIIOOLS.

Holyoke’s evening school work is carried on in five
buildings, four elementary and one high. The teaching
force consists of eighty-five teachers, twenty-two of whom
are engaged in the Evening High School. These schools
had total average nightly attendance of for the
month of November, an increase of fifty-two per cent over
that of the preceding November. More than three-fourths
(seventy-six per cent) of all those who patronize these

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
schools attend voluntarily. The illiterate minors constitute less than two-fifths of the membership of the elementary
schools and less than one-fourth of all those who attend the
evening school system. The average nightly attendance for
November in these elementary schools has exded that of
a year ago by sixty-two per cent, while the increase in the
High School for the same period shows fifty-two per cent
increase.
Evening Schools—Average Attendance.
Nov. Nov.  
High,  .
Appleton Street, .
William Whiting,  
West Street  ,
Morgan, .
Total,  
The four elementary evening schools are all in charge
of men trained for and engaged in school work as voeation ,
While the instruction is carried on by fifty-nine teachers, |
fifty-two of whom have been fully trained for teaching as a
profession. Of the remaining seven, two are college gra:lu, ates, three have had one year’s training at normal or kindergarten training school, one has had little professional training but has been teaching days for more than three years,
and one has large practical ability in teaching class of
foreign speaking people. Excluding the principals, only ,
sixteen of the teachers who have been regularly appointed
to our day schools are employed in these elementary evening
schools. Care in the selection of these teachers and supervision of their work by competent and skilful principals
have combined to raise these schools to plane where the
teaching compares favorably with that of the day schools.
The schools are well organized, well supervised, well taught,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
and well attended, and are offering much needed assistance
nightly to nearly one thousand earnest and ambitious
workers.

V. EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
The Evening High School has practically doubled in
three vears. ,
Evening High School.

Year Total Average
ending number attendApril enrolled ance

WDOD Lo         

WD  Lice    es  

DOT Loe          

  

WDD Lee       OI  

SS  To)  

 S) rr 

For Nov.  .........  

For the month of November there was an average membership of students and an average attendance of  .
Some of these attended only one or two nights week, as in
colking where there are three classes each attending one
night week, and in mechanical drawing where only two
lessons week are given to any one student.

This school combines the academic, commercial and industrial types of evening school and careful analysis of the
attendance in its different classes seems to point to the conclisisn that few if any pupils ever attend Evening High
School voluntarily for cultural purposes. For the month of
November, sixty-three per cent of the attendance was in the
industrial classes, twenty-five per cent in the commercial,
and twelve per cent in the remaining classes in French, German. English, mathematics and civil service. The school is
therefore nearly tio-thirds industrial, one-fourth commercial. and onIv in small part academice.

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The industrial courses in steam engineering, electricity,
wood-working, mechanical drawing, cooking and sewing
offer assistance in solving practical problems. These with
the commercial courses in bookkeeping and stenography
appeal to the students as leading to more desirable occupation or larger earnings. The desire to better their condition in life,—the vocational motive to large extent,—impels
attendance at these classes. If the facts were known it is
probable that most of those who study French, German or
| English have practical rather than cultural purpose in
; attending. Of the girls, take cooking and sewing,  
take commercial work, forty-four take French, German and
English. Of the men, take industrial courses, seventyeight take commercial work, forty-two study civil service
and mathematies and twenty-three pursue the courses in
French or English.
Evening High School for November  .
Actual Number Average
Total Belonging Attendance
—— Enrolment —. -— Nov, —— for November —
Boys’ Girls Total Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total
I. INDUSTRIAL.
Electricity................ vee  wee  
Engineering.............. wee vee pa vee Pa
Manual Training ........ Lee Les 
Mechanical Drawing....  BY vee BY #€
Cooking ............. oe  ld te of  +e v
Rowing .................... ill ..   
II. COMMFROIAL.
Bookkeeping ............. Sl 
Stenography t
Typewriting’............ x] ST ot
  Bw Mm BR
III. ACADEMIC.
French............ -... .. 
Germad ............    oo,  
English ...................   
Mathematics..............  
Civil Service.............. Wb  &@
Total... SB OTST AT SBTC aM
If we except the commercial courses, training in vyoeations or industries is recent development in our Evening

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
High School. The first course of this kind to be offered was
that in steam engineering and was started in October  .
Electricity aud manual training were offered in October
 and cooking and sewing classes were organized in October  The opening of these industrial courses has revealed strong desire for this kind of education, desire
which should be met by perfecting the present courses in
equipment and aim and adding others of practical nature

The organization and courses of the school are being
rapidly systematized. All the commercial classes have been
put under one head and these students with those of the
typewriting department are being given instruction in
English by special teacher. For the better shaping of the
Industrial courses one man has been appointed head of this
department. We hope to have printed course of study for
the Evening High Sehool before the opening of another
school year.

The action of your Committee at recent meeting directing that vocational classes be organized in the Evening
High School and that the State Board of Education be requested to co-operate with your Board in supervising and
approving the work was in pursuance of policy strongly
advoeated by the Commissioner of Education and outlined in
the Acts of  Chapter  In accordance with vour instructions classes have been organized in steam engineering,
carpentry, mechanical drawing and cooking. These classes
differ from the regular industrial classes of the High School
principally in the age at which students may be admitted
and in the relation of the instruction to their day employment. Attendance at these evening vocational classes is
restricted to those over seventeen Vears of age and the controlling purpose of the instruction must be to fit for profitable employment. Aceording to the Act referred to above
these courses must give ‘‘such training as can be taken by :
Persons already emploved during the working day, and
Which, in order to be called vocational, must in its instrue  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

tion deal with the subject matter of the day employment
and be so carried on as to relate to the day employment’’.
The effort is made to attract to the courses persons having
definite needs and seeking the next step forward in their
callings; the aim being to give special rather than general
training, supplementing the day experience in the shop or
home with instruction bearing directly on the day work and
designed to make more capable workmen.

The Act further provides that so long as such courses :
are approved ‘‘by the Board of Education as to organiza- |
tion, control, location, equipment, courses of study, quali- |
fications of teachers, methods of instruction, conditions of
admission, employment of pupils and expenditures of
money’’, the eity shall receive reimbursement to the extent
of ‘‘one-half the sum to be known as the net maintenance
sum’’, such net maintenance sum ‘‘to consist of the total
sum raised by local taxation and expended for the maintenance of such school, less the amount, for the same period, ,
of the tuition claims, paid or unpaid, and receipts from the

| work of pupils or the sale of products’’.

At the special meeting of December  th,  your |
Committee formally designated ‘this group of evening voeational courses as the ‘‘Evening Industrial Sehool’’ and ap- |
pointed principal. You further appointed an advisory
committee, ‘composed of members representing loeal trades,
industries and oecupations’’, The Act states that ‘‘it shall
be the duty of the advisory committee to counsel with and
advise the school officials having the management
and supervision of such schools’.

The ‘fEvening Industrial School’? is) therefore now
completely organized, all of the elasses coming Wednesday
and Friday nights except one class in steam engineering
which attends Monday and Wednesday nights. The attendance at the classes during October and November is indicated
by the following table:

|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Evening Industrial School.
Attendance at Vocational Classes for October and
November,  .
OCTOBER NOVEMBER
v  ' 
a De Wee dD DD
Carpentry ..........    ee]  i}..|  ... .. sf al.  a
Engineering— |
Firet Olase........... .. -[ ).. )... HI ATLL RS
Second Clase ...............  )..  --/ :..' ..u ..|  a,  ...
Mechanical Drawing.............. BB aie  cy a. IN
ee I
TOtale ....esec  cc ces  cere ess St  
, ( \

Deputy Commissioner Prosser has kept in close touch
with the school and has written the following letter, dated
December  st, giving assurance of approval and state-aid:
“Mr. John L. Riley.

Superintendent of Schools,

Holvoke, Mass.
My dear Mr. Riley:

This letter is sent for the purpose of informing you that
the courses of training in the industrial evening school at
Holvoke, as described in various blanks and memoranda now
on file in this office, have been recommended for approval by
Mr. Charles R. Allen and Mr. M. W. Murray. agents of the
Board of Education, and at the next meeting of the Board
they will be recommended for approval by me to the Commissioner of Education and the Board. think you: may
rely upon the assurance that these courses will be approved
by the Board of Education and that you will receive reimbursement by the legislature of for one-half the exPenses incurred in carrying on the work if the work is earned out satisfactorily.

Very truly vours,
C. A. PROSSER,
Deputy Commissioner, ”’

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

A careful estimate of the expenses for these classes to
December Ist,  places the probable amount to be expected as reimbursement from the state at four or five hundred dollars.

. The future of all these industrial courses in the Evening
High School depends upon Holyoke’s belief in the value of
industrial education and her willingness to pay the cost of
necessary equipment and maintenance. That there is need
of this kind of education there can be no doubt; and the
large attendance is sufficient evidence that many people

desire it. We have good equipment in the High School
building for all these eourses except steam engineering,
which has always been dependent upon the generosity of
Holyoke business men for such equipment as they would
loan. The course in steam engineering is strictly vocational
and it appeals to large number of firemen and engineers
who are seeking to take the next higher step in their vocation. The class has always been large and regular in attendance, denoting serious interest and earnest desire to take
advantage of the instruction offered. recommend that
suitable equipment be provided without delay. The cost
would probably not exd that of the evening electrical
course last vear,—about five hundred dollars.

The Evening School Committee has formally voted to
recommend the establishment of courses in textiles and
paper-making if instruction of value can be offered, and an
effort will be made in the near future to ascertain just what
the evening schools can do to assist people who are working
in these lines. The Deputy Commissioner of Edueation has
expressed his readiness to co-operate with us in study of
these two leading Holyoke industries.

As the same equipment is used in the day and evening
schools, the extent to which these industrial courses can be
developed with the present equipment is quite limited. In
our day High School the course in manual training ineludes
only wood-working, for which we have good equipment.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
We should establish course in metal-working as soon as
possible, which would inelude elementary work in moulding,
forging and machine shop practice. The equipment for this
work would be expensive but it might easily be spread over
two or three years if necessary, portion of the equipment
being bought each year.

The following table shows at glance the scope of the
manual and industrial training which is being carried on in
our day and evening schools at the present time. As plans
are nearing completion for teaching sewing and manual
training in grades seven and eight have included these in
the table. Forty benches for this work have already been
set up in the West Street and Morgan Sehools, and forty
more have been ordered for the Ilighland and Elmwood
Schools. The plan contemplates equipping manual trainIng room in each of the five grammar school buildings. The
Board of Public Works is now making the necessary alterations in these rooms. This work ought to start before the

 first of March.
Manual and Industrial Courses in Holyoke Schools.
Courses
For boys For girls
Day Schools.

Grade Manual training Sewing

Grade s

Grade ‘* ‘* Cooking

High School.

Ist vear Elementary pattern mak- Sewing
ing, wood turning, me- and
chanical drawing Cooking

 nd vear Advanced pattern) mak- Sewing
ing. elementary cabinet and
making. mechanical draw- Cooking
ing

 rd vear Advanced cabinet making, mechanical drawing

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
 th year Mechanical drawing
Evening Schools.
Industrial Wood turning, cabinet mak- Cooking
courses supported ing, elementary eleetricity Sewing
entirely by city
State-aided Carpentry, mechanical draw- Cooking
courses ing. steam engineering
VI. WIDER USE OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
The development of industrial, agricultural and household arts education in the public schools of the United
States is part of wide movement to make the schools contribute more of practical nature to the industrial and
social needs of the people. Another phase of the same move, ment is the growing demand that school buildings be used
for other purposes than those of the day school. In some of
| ‘our larger cities this demand has resulted in the buildings
being used evenings for lectures and entertainments, read; ing and library purposes, athletics, games, neighborhood
club meetings and similar purposes, admission being free or
only nominal amount being charged.

This ‘‘social center’? work, to be successful and really
beneficial, must be carefully planned and earried out with
some regard to the special needs of community and the
care of school property. The recent action of your Committee in accepting the provisions of Chapter  Acts of
 relative to the use of school halls for other than school
purposes is progressive step, and, with the concurrence of
the Mayor and City Couneil, places these halls at the disposal of the people ‘“‘for such public or educational purposes, for which no admission fee is charged’’, as you ‘‘may
deem wise’’. Several of our school buildings ean be used
for some of these purposes and it is to be hoped that the
more helpful features of this ‘‘soeial center’? work may
gradually develop in this city. The movement itself serves

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
to emphasize the necessity of planning our new school building with this wider use in mind.

VII. HEALTH.

Aside from the change of the winter and spring terms
from two twelve week terms to three terms of eight weeks
each and the opening of the three buildings in sections where
over-crowding prevailed, the chief improvements in health
condition have been the change in the High School luneh
and the opening of the shower baths at the William Whiting
School. These baths, the first school baths to be started in
Holyoke, were opened May  th,  They are used by
over ninety per cent of the children of that school and have
had remarkably beneficial effect; the matron, who has had
experience as nurse, being especially fitted to care for these
children in an intelligent and skilful manner. These baths
have already proved their value, and strongly recommend
that similar baths be installed in the West Street and Morgan Schools during the coming year.

Vill. THE FUTURE.
This report touches sufficiently upon the year’s work to
justify the assertion that it has been busy and progressive
year. Both day and evening schools are giving evidence
not only of numerieal growth but of broadening out to aid
in the solution of Holyoke’s social and industrial problems.
Careful and thorough study of the modern trend in edueation and of Holyoke’s special needs are essential to an in- telligent and wise guidance of the work. The problems
which confront us eall for devotion to duty and sacrifice
of time and energy, which are compensated by the knowledge
that we are contributing our service to the training of the
future Holyoke.
Respectfully submitted,
JOUN L. RILEY.

REPORT OF THE
Principal of the High School.
Mr. John L. Riley, Superintendent of Schools. .

DEAR SiR:—In my report for  somewhat detailed outlhne was given of the work in each department.

As the courses have undergone few changes this year, this
report will deal only with the departments where changes
have been made.

, In the wood-working classes more emphasis has been
placed upon the pattern-making, both in the bench and lathe
work. It is intended later to make castings in soft metal
from some of 'the patterns. new American wood-working
saw has also been installed.

In the science department several changes have been
made. New equipment has been installed in the shape of
laboratory tables, apparatus, wiring and plumbing. One
room has been provided with seven biological laboratory
tables and large case for holding material and apparatus.
This room also contains models, maps and material for physical geography. Another room has been equipped with

tables and wiring adapted to the work in elementary science
and college preparatory physics. In addition to the chemical laboratory, third room has been equipped for the exclusive use of elementary science classes. The only addition
made in this room was large table to give added capacity
for laboratory work. This room has also been piped for the
study of gas meters.

The work in science now includes: First year, elementary science; second year, biology and physical and commercial geography; third year, chemistry; fourth year, physics.
The enrolment in these classes has been large; in the elemenREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
lary sclence there are seven sections; in biology, three secHons in physical and commercial geography, three sections;
i chemistry, four sections, and in physics, two sections. The
sections will average about twenty-five pupils.
The dining room of the domestic science department
has been re-papered and painted and newly furnished with
lable, chairs and sideboard. The sewing room has been ,
equipped with shelves, and boxes have been provided for the
pupils, making suitable and satisfactory place to hold the !
materials used in this class. |
The room formerly used as an alcove to the library has !
been furnished as men teachers’ room. |
The class of numbered  forty-seven boys and |
fifty-eight girls. The honor students with their subjects !
Were as follows: Frances Genevieve O’Connell, ‘‘Ilistory
of the Art of Music’’; Amelia Elizabeth Wagner, ‘‘Folk
Songs’; Elizabeth Olga Foerster, ‘(Indian Music’’; Frances
Louise Callahan, Piano Selections, ‘‘Folk Songs’’, ‘‘Indian
Music’, ‘Witches’ Dance’’; Otto William Hilbert, ‘‘The :
Science of Music’’; Cleora Katherine Church, ‘‘Chimes and ,
Bells”; Stuart Franklin Heinritz, ‘‘ Acoustical Holyoke’;
Stuart Merriam Hill, ‘‘War Songs’’; Fannie Hildreth, ‘‘The
Educational Influence of Music’’. little variety to the |
ondinary commencement program was gained by having a
“central idea’’. glance at the subjects of the speakers 
will show how this scheme was carried out. :
The Alumni Scholarship Prize, given this year in the :
science department, was awarded to Otto Hilbert. Earlier :
in the year Prize Speaking Contest was held to select |
boy to represent the school at the Annual Interscholastic |
Oratorical Contest held at Syracuse University. As result |
of this contest William Whiting of the class of was |
chosen. :
Memorial Day was observed in somewhat similar manner to that of  portrayal of the character and life Oe
of Lincoln was given by Mr. Benjamin Chapin, who imper- ,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

sonated Lincoln and gave the scholars vivid idea of some of
the characteristics of this great man. The Grand Army Post
attended in body and other patriotic orders were represented.

Through the efforts of some of the boys of the senior
class, triangular debating league was formed with Williston Seminary and the Springfield High School. Our teams
debated in Holyoke and in Springfield. The subject,Resolved:
‘*That United States Senators Should be Elected by Popular
Vote’’, was negatively supported by our visiting team, and

; affirmatively at home against Williston Seminary. The home
team won both in Springfield and Holyoke. The debating
league is to ‘be continued this year, the Melrose High School
taking the place of Williston Seminary. From the interest
taken in both the Prize Speaking Contest and the debates, it
appears that enthusiasm can be aroused in contests other
than those purely athletic. ,

The Athletic Association at its June meeting decided to
amend its constitution so as to put the finances of the association in 'the hands of committee consrsting of representatives from the student body, the faculty and the alumni.
The student body  represented by the president of the Athletic Association; the faculty by the principal, the treasurer
and athletic coach; and the alumni by Mr. Frank Sears. No
money can be spent or debts incurred without the sanction
of this committee. The success and clean playing of our
baseball team deserve word of favorable comment. They
sucded in winning the cup given by the alumni of the University of Pennsylvania to the high school team having the
highest average in the Connecticut Valley league. This cup
remains in the possession of this High School until it is taken
from us by better team. We do not expect this contingency to occur in the near future.

The scheme of replacing the skylights of the auditorium
by windows given by the different classes is now being earried on in systematic way. Five classes have already put

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
windows in plave and one or two members from each of the
alumni classes have been appointed to secure the funds from
their respective classes. We hope to have the seheme completed before the close of the next school year. There are
to be forty windows in all.

Correspondence with the various colleges and institutions
of higher learning where Holyoke High School students are
represented has been very satisfactory in showing that the
students from this school compare very favorably in their
preparation with the students coming from other secondary
schools. At Amherst College, George Whitmore, who
entered from the Holvoke High Sehol last fall, was awarded
the Porter Entrance Prize for the highest average among
the students entering by examination. In the list of awards
made by the different colleges where our graduates are enrolled. we have our proportion of honors.

The changes in the faculty have been as follows: Mr.
Frank Halstead, head of the manual training department,
resigned to take similar position in the East Orange Igh
School. He was sucded by Mr. Edwin M. Roberts, a
teacher of considerable experience from the Lowell Iigh
School and graduate of the Worcester Polytechnie Institute. Mr. George Dalrymple, head of the commercial department, resigned ‘to accept commereial position in one of
the Newark, N. J., high schools and was sucded by Mr.
Charles H. Mumma, who came to us from the Newton, Mass.,
High School. Mr. Charles W. Annable of the eommercial
department, resigned to accept commercial position in one
of the high schools of Pittsburg, Pa., and was sueded by
Mr. George W. MaeDow. graduate of the Salem Normal
School and an experienced teacher. Mr. J. Tarry Kennedy,
Who was appointed to the principalship of the Appleton
Street School, was sucded by Mr. George D. Ilearn, a
graduate of Clark University.  Miss Lena W. Barrus, a
teacher of domestic seienee, went from this sehool to Pas  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
saic, N. J., and was sucded by Mrs. Elizabeth Perkins
who had charge of this work in the Northampton schools.

The large enrolment in the science department necessitated the employing of an additional teacher, ‘and this position was filled by Mr. A. Omer Hebert, graduate of Holy
Cross College, and teacher of several years’ experience.

A new departure has been made by the employing of a
teacher to do individual work with first year students. Many
students fail to adjust themselves to the High School conditions, and thus fall behind in their classes. Owing to the

large number of pupils enrolled it is difficult for the class
teacher to give the time from her work to the pupils who
need considerable special attention. In September Miss
Lena W. Slotnick, graduate of Mt. Holyoke College, was
employed for this work. think results already shown warrant the permanent appointment of special teacher.

One of the most important changes inaugurated in the
fall was the establishing of the lunch counter under school
administration. The lunches heretofore served in the school
had not been satisfactory but, under the circumstances, they
were as good as could be expected. By the employing of a
woman who understands the values and preparation of foods
and by the purchasing of suitable equipment to prepare and
serve the food, very satisfactory and reasonable lunch has
been provided. The patronage of the lunch shows that it
is not only popular but nourishing. The long session of
school demands period of relaxation and lunch eonsisting of nutritious food. The menu is not elaborate but is
varied from day to day. typical menu with prices would
be as follows: Soup, cents; sandwiches (ham, egg, and
cheese), cents; peanut butter sandwiches, cent; cookies,
eake, and cents; bananas, cents; oranges, cents;
combination lunch, consisting of hot meat, potatoes and buttered roll, cents; ice cream, cents; milk (bottle), cents.

So far the sale of food has been large enough to pay all

REPORT OF SCHOUL COMMITTEE  
of the expenses, including the salaries of the woman in
charge and her assistant.

Better attendance, fewer cases for the emergency room,
and signs of less fatigue during the later periods of the
school day, may be in part attributed to our improved system of practical dietetics.

An effort ts being made in the Enghsh department
along the lines of vocational direction. Many pupils drop
out of school beeause they lack definite incentives. To
arouse interest in study and develop true spirit of application there must be in view an obtainable goal. Graded subjects for composition suited to the pupil’s age are given beginning in the first year. These subjects deal with the
pupil’s daily life. his habits and his ambitions, biographical
sketches of great men, emphasizing the personal characteristies necessary for success, themes relating to the different
trades, more especially the local trades. In the third and
fourth years. such subjects as character, elements of success, duty, obligation, and relation of the individual to society are introduced.

The High Schoo] is striving through its various departments to give to each pupil the education best suited to his

needs. To do this there must be faithful work on the part
of the pupil. intelligent guidance on the part of the teacher,
and with it all, the earnest co-operation of the home.
Respectfully submitted,
HOWARD CONANT,
: Principal.

REPORT OF THE
  .
Principal of the Evening

, High School.
Mr. John L. Riley, Superintendent of Schools.

DeEaR Sir:—The work of the Evening High Sehool during the past vear has been conducted along much the same
lines as the year previous, except that the seope of the work
has been broadened by opening additional courses. The enrolment and attendance were greater than in any previous
vear, due perhaps as much to more general understanding
of the work of 'the school by the people of the city as to the
opening of the new courses. Improvement in the condition
of the building has helped us greatly this year. New high
power tungsten lights have been installed over the stairways
and in the lass rooms, making the work of students and
teachers much easier.

A good beginning has been made toward supplying the

: school with line of text books and supphes, and if the same
policy is carried out, of adding little each vear, it will not
he long before the school will be supphed with an independent equipment sufficient to meet all its needs.

The interest of pupils in the commercial courses inereases each vear and at present seven class rooms are required to accommodate the pupils of this department. A
course in business English, whieh ineludes spelling and eorrespondence, has been added this vear as this instruction  s
sorely needed by the average pupil and is absolutely essential to good business training. This course will also inelude instruetion and drill in offiee routine, such as filing,
card indexing, ete, We hope that in another vear the work

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  !
may be extended so as to include course in accounting.
As in previous years, several pupils of this department have
been successful in securing and holding positions, and during the past year many requests for office help have been
received at the school from manufacturers and others who
are glad to give preference to pupil of the evening
schools.

The work of the civil service class has shown marked
improvement this year, due in great measure to the fact
that complete set of text books specially adapted for civil
service study has been provided for the use of the students.

Like the civil service class, much good work has been
done in the English course, where we have added Hitchecock’s Enlarged Practice Book in English Composition as a
text book for the course.

From the limited number of pupils who attend the
courses in French, German and mathematics it is evident
that the academie branches do not appeal strongly to the
average evening pupil. It was unecessary early in the term
to close the class in German for lack of sufficient attendance,
and the class in mathematics is in session only one evening
per week. Likewise in the French classes the attendance
shows only limited demand for the subject, although the
interest of the pupils who do attend these classes is well
sustained. This condition ean very likely be remedied by
more thorough advertising of the courses and making it
generally known that these classes teach regular college
preparatory work in French, German and mathematics.

INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAT,.

The school has made excellent progress this year in |
industrial and vocational work. In addition to the classes
already opened there have been added courses in cooking
and sewing. The work in ‘this department as in the comMereial department has been placed under the supervision

)

t
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

| of one man, and believe this is advantageous in that it helps

| to correlate and systematize the work of all the classes in
the department.

With the establishment of state-aided industrial
school several other courses may be opened. For example:
carpentry, the use of the framing square, estimating, blue
print reading and pattern making. The department has a
fine equipment of benches, tools, lathes, power saws, etc.,
which with planer and mortising machine to be installed
will give pupil excellent opportunity to learn the use of all

) kinds of wood working tools and machinery and likewise
| enable him to make some useful article of furniture.

. The course in mechanical drawing is designed to be as

| practical as possible, making the instruction fit the needs

| of the pupil.

The cooking course offers instruction also adapted to the
individual needs of the pupil, emphasis being laid on practical cooking. There are three classes, each class having
a period of two hours per week.

| The course in sewing aims to give instruction in plain

! sewing and use of the sewing machine; also the use of patterns and the best and easiest methods of garment making.
There are four classes and each class is assigned period of
two hours per week.

The classes in steam engineering and electricity continue to hold the interest of large number  pupils, and
although the engineering class suffers from Jack of proper
equipment, yet the work of the class during the present
year is being properly arranged and the course shaped so as
to make it better than in any previous year.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

While some improvement has been made toward the
fitting up of room to meet the special needs of the administrative work of the school by allowing the principal the
use of the day High Schoo] men teachers’ room and devoting

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
a janitor’s room to the use of the elerk and for storing supplies, there is still erying need for room to be used exclusively as an Evening High School office. This office need
not be elaborately furnished but it should have telephone
connection and enough other furniture to at least give it
the semblanee of an office commensurate with the dignity
of such school as this has grown to be. The supply room
should be altered so as to admit better lighting arrangement. This eoulkd easily be done by removing single
partition.

Additional text books should be provided for the benefit
of pupils taking course in business English, correspondence and dictation.

The class in steam engineering is greatly handicapped
by lack of some machinery showing the practical application of steam power, and this condition should be remedied
as soon as possible. The membership of this class is made
up for the most part of mature men who are not slow to express their disapproval of the present equipment.

The bookkeeping room should be supphed with eabinet of some kind in which the supplies of each pupil could
be safely kept, thus avoiding the confusion incident to piling them np in corner of the room as at present.

The pupils in the sewing classes should also have some
cabinet. or room where the materials used by them, as well
as their work, ean be safely kept. At present the pupils are
obliged to bring their material and supplies with them each
night and take them home at the close of school. believe
that in the near future this course in sewing might be extended so as to cover work in dressmaking.

In view of the popularity of the two courses open to
women this year am led to believe that courses in millinery,
art needle work, home eeonomics, household) management,
table setting and service will be equally popular. It may

 hot be amiss to suggest also that course of Jectures in

i
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
practical nursing would be material benefit and might
! very properly be added to the school curriculum.
The school as whole suffers greatly from irregular at! tendance of pupils and some method should be introduced
, which would, in measure, compel more regular and con: tinued attendance. would suggest that plan adopted
in many other evening schools be tried here, perhaps not in
! all of the courses, but beginning might be made in such
classes as manual training, electricity, bookkeeping, cvok, ing and sewing. small deposit of one dollar would be
|  Yequired of each pupil entering these classes as pledge of
! faithful attendance and application, which amount would
| be returned to the pupil at the end of the term provided he
was present certain percentage of evenings during the
! year. In this way think the school as whole. as well as
| the pupils, would be materially benefited,
Respectfully submitted.
P. J. GARVEY.
} .

|
General Statistics
Population of Holyoke, May,  ............  
Total valuation of property..............+++ 
Total number of children of school age  to 
na number from to years of age.......  
al number of pupils in all schools, year endin June,  ...  ...     |
: Number under years of age........... |
Number over years of age.........--  
Number between and years of age....... |
Average membership in all schools........... |
Average attendance ...........      d,  !
Percent of attendance........... eens  
Total inoeme of School Department..........  |
Total expenditure .....-....    ence ees  |
Overdraft (met by additional appropriation)..  
Special furnishing accounts, amount expended  
Expended by Board of Public Works: |
Sites and new building................. !
Alterations, improvements and repairs.... |
Janitors, janitors’ supplies, fuel, power, |
Hight and water .......... --  |
Total expenditure for ‘support of schools...... |
Cost per pupil based on average membership. !
Cost per pupil based on average membership,
 
Average for the State:
Including State aid and voluntary contributionS ...  ...     tees  
Local taxation only .........       
Tax on one dollar of valuation..............  

Financial Statistics
I. FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Receipts.
Dog taxes ................ .- 
Tuition ......           
. ——— 
Appropriation .......  ...          
Balanee from  .........  ...     
Total income ........  ... cc     ee ees 
Total expenditure .........ee   
Overdraft (met by additional appropriation) .. 
Expenditures and Estimates.
Expended Estimates
 
Salaries—
Day school teachers......  
Evening school teachers. ..  
, Supervisors ......... 
Superintendent ..........  
Clerks ..  ...    
Truant offieers ..........  
Janitor oo...   }
Matron ..............  
Census        
Manual Training helper...  
Total ..........  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Supplies— ,
Telephones ..............  
Building supplies ........  
Educational supplies .....  
Text books .............  
Furniture ............  
Manual training helper...  
Freight, express, cartage..  
Laundry .............  
Livery ...........     
Office expenses ..........  
Printing and advertising..  
Rental .............  
Transportation .......... 
Graduation .............  
Baths ...........      
High School lunch .......  ). 
Census .........      
Insurance ...............  
Unelassified .............  
Total ...............  
Total salaries and supplies....  
Estimated receipts ...........  
Appropriation asked for less estimated receipts  
II. CLASSIFIED EXPENDITURES,

Salaries of Superintendent, Clerks, Truant Officers, Census
Enumerators, Janitor and Matrons.
Superintendent—John L. Riley................ 
Clerks—Mary J. Callahan.....................  
Agnes M. Cadieux..............  
Ida A. St. Martin. ................ 

- REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Truant Officers—Thomas W. Doyle.............  
Thomas E. Gallagher..........  
Thomas H. Finn..............  
Michael Kerin (assistant).....  
Census—Michael Kerin ...............    
Ernest Provost ..........cce  ena  
Patrick Lyons ........... cc      
John R. Mikula......................  
Patrick J. Long......  ...    
Maurice Casey ...... cc      
A. Rainault .....  ...       
F. A. St. Marie... ..   
Janitor—William B. Rogers................  
. Matron—Mrs. B. T. Clifford...............  
: Ellen F. Donahue (assistant)..........  
Wilfred Guiheen (assistant)..........  
Total co.cc  ce   ce     
Building Supplies.
Batteries fur ecluecks, gongs and telephones...... 
Flags oc   ene            
Tlardware ..  ...   ce       
SOUP          een eens  
Sponges oe        eet eens  
Miseellanmeous .. ec.      eens  
otal   cc   ce ccuccucuuseceuseucens 
Educational Supplies.
Bookkeeping  ...          
Busy Work  ...  cc      een 
COMPASSCS    ee teeneens  
Cravon coc   ce    tetas  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Domestic science ....... e eccecucs  
Drawing  ... cc   ceuuuees  
Electricity  ...  ececnecuec ues  
English oo...     ece ecrec   
. Erasers, rubber .....csccecc cucceces  
mses, blackboard ...........cc uee:  
a  
Hob Ss cc  ec cec   ,  
HOY ceo ceccesecectusesbet ,  
Neve     be bebe te seers.  
ee 
Kindergarten...     s  
Manual training .........  ...     ees  
Maps    ee     eens  
Mathematics  ...  cc ccwee        
Music. ce     ce     ence   ees  
Paints and brushes........... cc     tees  
Paper voce ec        t     
SS Cc  
Pencils. oc e   eet teens  
Pencil sharpeners .........     eens  
Pens and penholders........... .-         
PlanOSee    ee     
Rulers oo...   nas  
ScleNC® co.cc           
NCLSSOPS coc   e        eens  
Stencil papers, et@........        
Stenography .......   teen ees  
Thermometers .........    cree  eens |
Waste baskets .......        ene  
Writing .oo eccec veetsecsee.  
Miscellaneous ....... ce eeee   ences  
Total      ce cc sees areseal.

|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Text Books.
. Civil service oo...      ence 
Domestic science .......       ees  
Drawing  ...        eenee  
| Electricity ...            
Elocution ...  ...   ce      eens  )
English  ...  ...       § 
! French and German .............    
Geography ......  ...       eccecs  
History  ... ce eeeen enes  
Hygiene  ...  ... cc         
Kindergarten .........  ...        ewes  
Tatin and Greek ......  ... cc    eens  
Library  ...   cc          
Mathematics  ...  ...          eens  
MUSIC Lecce          eenees  
SCIENCE coc  cc   ce ence   teen   ees  
Stenography ....  ...         
Miseellameous  ...        ees  
$ 
Special Furnishing Account.
(Provided for by special appropriation.)
East Dwight Street School............---. 
Ingleside School .........-. ce         
William Whiting School ......... ..  QT LUY
Total occ.    ceccec neces RAS 
Ill SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
December ........ ec     ) 
JUNUALY oc    ce     
February ........ -.      
March vo...          ees) 

Wt
Wan
Wa
 
i
Ww
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE |
April ....c..ccec |
May   ee   ee) |
JUNE occ   c ces |
UY          i
August .......        Hit |
September .............. Wi} |
October oo...  ce    |
November. ........ ... . WII |
ee Hil
Hilt
Total for year............- -   Hii
Total receipts ...............- .- HI} Wa
— Hh |
Tih |
Overdraft (met by additional appropri’n)  |
WT |
Hii)  
Wilh
iH \\|
tH il
V  it Ton .
anae in|
Hy Wt a
IH Wi  il
HH Wy
) Me Kl
{ wt |
 : i
  aay .
; Re ii |
Nt ie al Hi
| edie HH iti
iy il Nal |
, qe Te eet HH
i bh tit ay i
ML iH
APN ETE TN 
i Hip Hh it “ih rf |
Vane ye) Ate ,
Wit ‘iT nit Hel
HM POMEL ill le
A i} bel TTR ane :
ede A
Se a
" Th i] it .
OO }! bi ii) |
Digitized i} |
gitized by be ‘a ,

if .
: ’
{
  he kya abe bs “pon
. SRETSELSSGAREPRTARE FZANAEH TERS) ]
- Laeger ass YF an te
f  RUERGSESESZURUE  Ehaae* EE RB |S
—Nsodsixgcoren Te S
Pa an sRNeeircdernracgdn eB Dk :
SO ST TTB rg PEP po gE |
coe oe es  soit bo bo  po ‘oe  Rr. BAT le Gina: DIood |
-— sore eos ae —| Ne ot sl
| $a Didi: Poobbi tins Db &
- Pbpb it Poor bb bis |
|  tao we BB tw: Dbbig: rr ea
| SP ligiigie#g si  a: Pir ooit poi)  
i  Se ne ara Piri  : .
; ae sot yofororott Dob }
| jo Eo at Pooiidiiootiop: g
  and seSe 
ia wit ii bbtig Gibbs ii: ont sS z
i Sth PiGipisEi  Hoo.  *
| g@gOeg  yorororos woof tl! x
( efs) For riri YY piir : :: ewe
i ey +o: Fe.
a  Dif of    pttpitrrpr$pis  oklUCUdDUU Ss’ €
| Pit tid obitii ii: Dnt Dot Tt  
.  oe ele  
| oe yu RESER KEE SRZESEm Popo} bt Do  
& ray: Sea lane ce nem ! Dopob pit ont  
s  BESSA CSANSEMBHA DS Cif ii: oi: 
bs Sd fofoft oto dt nd &
a Poo iidido ort ps OM OF
if Piri Doo A
|) SB  a
 Ss aSSR  ‘FAMINE DSF soree rs
.  p)  QL Fuge: maT ES OM Porro ot gig ‘R
E ani [Om OOCDSe sof oro or ots ot  
. €
| re
: Oo  GiElii   fog
  er er of :
O d menpanaeaee in pies tot be ZERSes (ORL -—se:  oe
m tte guess preset @PSee: :: :B #& £
 EST SBZEH ested: Dt 
, Cs QQ: ov) om oe RESES cot ra
: Qj, Poi: a
 eo.  ;
fe eS
‘  t-  '
a EROSSRMSASRR IRE TT SH S£en  re oe é
 SENSES PSSST ESRSC RSH Seoul Uf ig  §
| narets SGEZSRF FRBAE:  i, &
 “os a
, sos rs
Lib eA Ba UE SADE ORE +
Oo wg SE ReSSEoRTSRES Reg AD Gils 
ae eae PSS SEE! —At) Le et so aj
Z  Rese re REZCERZER BES CH: rn oe E
!  Dio iye €
BG
. be  .
! GO :' SR iBSSBSA PSF oVNss :R Prrit rn :
'@)  ‘E RNRII BAS TERS ese ty rr) ot g
/ o£ an, ne T   : g§ F
a Dit: Db 
bog Db ba ae 
yg Fe   Now eo sac —?* :
 fs SRVERTAEASESHASRBAZ RPHVA! ES tS :
— FS SEBEL SCH SSR SASS SmamK:   o
st za awe BaShaysk Rawat ES Doty Pe Z
| of) eo €
-Co ot E
x  ite SSSS eeunsreeyrS&s Aa Pbobpi Df iw  eg@idetiascené is Pippi  : HS  SAR EASHEASERHENEEE if Dos Dt goog
|  st we aol Fost oes &
| Oe Droit cot ros
M  ———-  —.   G
£E NIRS GSoo eeoeewee) Meseoe ii §
  Beers canen  BE EES: Pfr:  ok
/ POASEGUSEGIMAMNAMIBSKT .—  Pio tl  
|  caw Ts asa mM Kye ‘a  N ica ‘os 
| éis ATART SECS CEPR RAR GS soft  }
oO -i io: s
| TaSmG Tareas beenee Re sagneyseseegeRsszs agessi ya  :|  €
 SEHHPESEOHFSSLAZLEF KEELE: ano: GenR bee eeCEnRe ana BGEsR Fs BE
— os on nt ram tH to rT oe  
ba  Qe ONrene esas omm |
nn  
Doig fo oror hots fot oe or we le   |
PIG: bili ppirii Eris tiie: wo |
Tt Dig   eiig gigi ie:  y
fi [- De IP lem tk Ocv ica: --ff  .
 SEZ LLIB LTTE CES Figs Bice: sof |
  PES CCE ELIE Ess tgs SiS ies: sea :
 Ee hi ere  Le tZ Sim is  po: of |
 So See Dec: Diy re EES rE Lis “CF  Geo EF: |
z LED Ese tT LSet Sre-  (Cewebsa bos :
| zx PE ZESTISZ Ect lS fizere Sif itnegE:
| LPSELSE EER FSET zt SCES Cth  F
‘ ari eae *F 
| SEE LEC ESS TELE REGIA zat tEns ace Pr
f SGEie iUurTiGe itl? tiia  dxf FEE
ee Ete Sock on Pe AU, ae  Pa i|

| ,
|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
V. COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE  
MEMBERSHIP.
Cost, based on  eaching’aniy, |
High School ...............  
Conny finan |
|
Appleton Street School......  !
Elm Street School..........  |
Elmwood School ...........  
Ewingvlile School .......... 
Hamilton Street School......  
Highland School ...........  
Ingleside School ....-.......  
Kirtland School ........... |
Morgan School ............. :
Nonotuck Street School.....  
Park Stret School...........  
Sargeant Street Sehool...... ,
South Chestnut Street School  
Springdale School .......... 
West Street Sehool.........  
wit Holyoke School........  
liam Whiting School..... —- 
| Evening Schools.
High Sehool o...... ...  ...  
ypPleton Street School...... |
wee School ..........  
War: treet, Sehool......... :
‘am Whiting School..... |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
VI. ACTUAL SALARIES PAID TO TEACHERS OF
DAY SCHOOLS, DECEMBER .
Salers Me n es. Women Teachers,
Kindergarten, . 
 *
 
| Grades,  . 
  +)
 
High School,  
 
  ]
  ;
  .  ]
 
*Also one additional teacher on leave of absence.

REPORT OF SCHOUL COMMITTEE  
VI. ACTUAL SALARIES PAID TO PRINCIPALS OF
DAY SCHOOLS, DECEMBER .
Ananal Men Princigaly, Wor er ot als.
Elementary,   . 
High, ]

VIII. ACTUAL SALARIES PAID TO TEACHERS AND
PRINCIPALS OF EVENING SCHOOLS,
DECEMBER  ],  .

Number Number
Per fvening. Teachers. heachers) Tad spa.”
Elementary, . d
High,  .—w

f
. REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
IX. RULES RELATING TO SALARIES OF TEACHERS.
From Rules and Regulations of School Department,
Page  Rule  .
The established salaries of teachers shall be as follows,
Viz:
Teachers of Grades I, IT, III,  V, V, VI:—
First year in charge of school.............. 
Second year in charge of school...........-  
Third year in charge of school............-  
Fourth year in charge of school...........-  
Fifth year in charge of school...........+--  
Sixth year in charge of school...........--:  
Seventh and sucding years......... 
Teachers of Grade VII :— :
First year in charge of school...........--+  
Second year in charge of school.........---  
Third year in charge of sehool.........----  
Fourth year in charge of school.........-++  
Fifth vear in charge of school. .........- 
Sixth vear in charge of school. .........+- H. 
Seventh and sucding years. ....  
Teachers of Grade VITI:— :
First vear in charge of school.........  
Second year in charge of school. ........-+ ae
Third vear in charge of school. ....... oN
Fourth vear in charge of school. .......-- 
Fifth vear in charge of school... ...... --  Daa
Sixth vear in charge of school........  ioe
Seventh and sucding Vears....... pall
Teachers of Grade LX :—  
First vear in charge of school.........- 
Second year in charge of school. ......-  
Third vear in charge of sehool......... 
Fourth vear in charge of school.......  +" (K)
Fifth vear in charge of school. ........  toe ag
Sixth vear in charge of school...   eet wa)  
Seventh and sueding vears.......  ?

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Principals of Kindergarten :— |

First year in charge of school..............  

Second year in charge of school............  

Third year in charge of schol..............  

Fourth year in charge of school............  

Fifth year in charge of school..............  

Sixth and sucding years................  
Assistants in Kindergarten :—

First year ....... cc  cc ete      

Second year  ...  ...      ees  

Third year .....       eccena 

Fourth year ........    ences  

Fifth and sucding years................  
Principals of primary buildings of more than four rooms :—

First year in charge of school..............  

Seeond year in charge of schvol............  

Third year in charge of school.............  

Fifth and thereafter......................  

Principals of grammar schvols shall receive, if of not
more than eight rooms,  for the first year, with a
vearly increase of  for six years; eighth year and thereafter, If of more than eight rooms,  the first
year, with yearly increase of  up to the maximum.

The established salaries of high school teachers, not
heads of departments, shall be:

For men,  for the first vear of service; for each sucding year of service  additional until salary of
$  be reached. Upon special recommendation of the
high school principal and superintendent this salary may be
increased to maximum of .

For women,  for the first year of service; for each
sucding year of service  additional until salary of
$  be reached. Upon special recommendation of the high
school principal and superintendent this salary may he increased to maximum of .

ATTENDANCE STATISTICS
The first seven of the following tables are based upon
actual membership and show concisely the classification and
distribution of pupils on December Ist,  .
I MEMBERSHIP—ALL SCHOOLS.
 Total Number
of Teachers Total Number
Principals Enrolled Membership.
High School ............  
Grades... ..       
Kindergarten ...........  ()*  
Total ............  
*Also one additional teacher on leave of absence.

.
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE |
I. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES IN HIGH
SCHOOL AND GRADES. )
a s| sls
v) 
fy isfele/ Alef sls] el  s)ga   Ai   
| |
|
 . HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY AGES AND |
CLASSES. |
am
(] Class |
Vs Age / /T [Total |
Boys  
Pat Graduate Girls || alal ||  
Son: Boys slealte  
“nor sGirls| ||  
Jun: Boys|   |
Soph athe  tigalis ;
promore Girls}  
Fresh Boys)   |
—Siman Girls   
Total el slorlralior lae.oa |
a Girls}  |  |
IV. HIGH SCHOOL—AVERAGE AGES. :
a I,
Po Boys Girls Total
Serio aduate yrs. mos.  yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos. {
Juni yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos./  yrs. mos. :
Sopho, yrs. yrs. mo.  yrs. mo. :
Freshmen’ yrs. mos.j  yrs. mo  vrs. mos.
aan li yrs.  mos./  yrs. mo  yrs. mos. fF
; \
,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
V. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY CLASSES
AND COURSES.
ie FE: ig
Clase  ,
"Ss s
Boys;  ,
| Post Graduate Girls, B
Boys,  )
Senior Girls! 
Boys,  Bi
Junior Girls 
Boys,  |
Sophomore Girls}  
Boys) 
Freshman Girls 
Boys) | |
Total Girls)  

a
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITIEE |
VI. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—DISTRIBUTION BY :
GRADES.
  se
| ba cn  
BE  )
iB leleleliiclels/elel  |
Appleton St.   |
- Dwight St.)  /
Him St,   !
mwood    
Ewingville ot |
Hamilton St.    
meen  
Ree  
adic   
x rea   
‘ mnotuek St.   :
cn St. |  
reat St.  |  
g rant St.    |
Wa vedale    
ret St. ] 
Veoyoke gi aj  Hal |
“w.Whiting  ||  
tal   

)
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
VII. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—SIZE OF CLASSES.
Number Number Number Number Number Number
in of in of in of
Class Classes Class Classes Class Classes
   
|  
,  
!  ]
 
. 
| 
; Clasees of
| Single Gredce, more Gredes. Total  Total  ,
| or less .......... to inelusive.....  
, More than ........  
Total ...........  dd  
VIII. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS
GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Course Boys Girls Total
College preparatory ...........  ]
Technical woo...eeee    
Commercial ........... 
General .......... ec s  al
Total ...........c   AT  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE |
IX. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS ENTERING
SEPTEMBER,  .
Boys Girls Total
From Appleton Street School.. 
From Elmwood Sehool.........  ”
From Highland School.........  
From Morgan School.......... ,
From West Street School......  
From West Holyoke School.....  
Others entering ............... 
Total ............... --.  
X. GRAMMAR SCHOOLS—NUMBER OF PUPILS
GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Boys Girls Total
Appleton Street School......... :
Elmwood School ......... .+.  
Highland School ..........  
Morgan School ..........e  
West Street School..........-.  
West Holyoke School..........  
Total  esses  
XI. NUMBER OF PUPILS IN GRADE IX AND 
AVERAGE AGE SEPTEMBER,  .
Average Age
\ Schoo} Boys Girls Total Average Age Sept.  
py ricton Street yr. mo. yr. mo.
Ton  syr. mo. Il yr.  mo.
nun  yr. mo. yr. mo.
Ween yr. mo. yr.  mo.
Wet Street yr. mo. yr.  mo.
*st Holyoke  yr.d mo. yr. mo.
Total  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE .
XII. EVENING SCHOOLS—FOR MONTH OF
NOVEMBER,  .
Number of
fncludisg Pupils Puplin Niahds
Principals Enrolled Belonging Attendance
High School  
Appleton St. School 
Morgan School 
West Street School  
Wm. Whiting School  
Total  
AUT. NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED DECEMBER .
Superintendent of schools...............  ]
Attendanee officers  ...    ee   OD
Matron  ...           en   
JANitON Lo.  ee  cence    
—  
In Day Schools:
Men W’m'n Total
High School (ine’ding principal)  
Elementary school prineipals
who have assistants ......... 
Elementary school principals in
charge of classes............  
Ninth grade teachers..........  
Eighth grade teachers .........  )
Seventh grade teachers ........  
Sixth grade teachers........... —. 
Fifth grade teachers...........  
Fourth grade teachers.........  
Third grade teachers ..........  
| Second grade teachers.........  
First grade teachers...........  

|
:
|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Mixed grade teachers (two or
more grades in room)......  
Ungraded school teachers......  
Kndergarten teachers ........-  
Supervisors and special teachers  
Total number of teachers in day
schools .....  ... ce     
In Evening Sehools:
High Sehool .............-----  
Elementary schools .......+... 
Total number of teachers in
evening schools ..........+--  a
Total number of teachers in day
and evening schools........--  
Total number of persons emploved............. 
bh

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
XIV. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE STATISTICS FOR
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE .
J|f  os ft te oodles
ne se ex, Fs,  
SOHOULS Pa of ge  /is ta|  :
Be pe  ez!  EF
ze aay Fz) Fs
HH ff |bejt fol  
a 
estne
Highgia . 
Appleton Street ....)  ,.  
Elm Street ........'  .)   
Elmwood ....-+..+-{   
Ewingville ........., .)   
Hamilton Street  )
Highland ..........) [|  ,  
Ingleside  ...) . 
Kirtland      . 
Morgan .........--)   
Nonotuck Street...) , ,
Park Street ........{ . 
Sargeant Street ..../  .  
So. Chestnut Strect.;  *, . 
Springdale ........, . 
West Street ce   
West Holyoke ......) .  
William Whiting ...,   
po oy ee
Evening Schools:nie
Pp 
High Siete et  ]  '
Appleton Street ....'  .  ]
Morgan Cries  
William Whiting ...!   
West Street ........!  
Eo |
*Also one additional teacher on leave of absence.

a
H
ETEASSMWSSoOM#oOoONrSote ere eotrorte
BteSSnFSFASHAStEaneEFRects
kTHHONDM GS Senor ste sense raentescrc
Tet EK Kan SRA SRKSAGSREPAESSSE
SOKSHRAMSSAKRHKHAEKDTACHA RR KCAFSNGS
KI eitoatasa oD 
NM —
. A]
oe LK
ZeSernrecssawnses Sysonernecsereanrs
Be SSESREZERSS KAR MK HRESEEASA
'D  rr  ne PSN
SEESHFRSERRES SRSRNSGSRFECRS
SA SHARSKEHNA BEKKZON GC tEACS
mM HATS ID on eH ay  —
bs WAS xO ON is 
QO ay
 F&
bOoSSsszess Serer erseasonaine
  SSSEEEERZES Fete CaFRERSE RES
SRASCNA Sees op sinter nTwTworwnm +
C SHES ERESTE mA EZSSL SSSR S
ee SNrmganesSsecann *er“eots ANNA N
—“"Mecine AA AD  alot Aalnx
mH MRSS NMA AN Ho ON  
JF $e
  oO OO ea   eae
y,w TSTosotHa cetNareasc So Sotto
 EESRRSHR SEMERAAREKZREOCAS
SPECS Serer sitasc nexscwaosaexr cove
SP GPZROTEFLE SAEZ, FRSSXKEEERS
PANTARNAME DO RHR RHR KAKH INKMS
RPI Sa ar SD  
gH Fjee
a
Oe
NR bd Ld  :
 a:  :  r) *
 :   
a aa
mo me,  alam   &
a   a) SL
 
Z, eS bd : oom .
ia) Ee "Ss . 
a ns ou xz  
a ‘os ry -- Re  Ta -om: .c (os bd ™” .
ry isa  bu   SD Py  SN  e
  —  or  —w ty 
| Zax na  inona 
. od    mt ot w
wi oe .G -Oo, SS. .
by ke aw.
am  ane —/
AS DM oo)  So x
(OSH  Ys aa  
j|SouM  Og: “fF ZX wn 
. ar. or oe ie QS —
 RN mee  im  WZ apr Oo SSeytuess  A
eo] ES) Ssa.  ond  SFeSpy eC OO
om Mts oa CoH Some Sve YE TS
x  OO Rw ame mR ere aS
| RMEGSSRSSRELEGSSES DSRS ESZ
— Sm —
| Cae FFP shal en
RAR RaHGSOaOSoRARs*S Roane e|s
“|

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
II. THE HIGH SCHOOL.
For Year faxhenditure Number of Total
Fading mgt poclnding Principe  Aombew, Memiennip
    . 
   , .    Tit  .
III. THE NINE GRADES.
Expenditure Number of -ernge
a ae
|       sor d
 .  
 , **  December Ist  
See all eharged
Substituting in high school and kindergartera
to grades these three vears.
** Also one teachers on leave of absence.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
IV. THE KINDERGARTEN.
Tadlne Expenditure Namber of Net Average
June for Teachers Teachers Enrolled Membership
    . 
   . 
  .  
‘Also one teacher on leave of absence.
V. THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL. ,
ee Ly ;

EE  
+ BS ze gs za EE eg
tes aa Ze  nes
ion we Ze ca zz  ata
ion 
ioy . —s  
ion  

  oe

| a

| ,
i oO REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
| VI. THE EVENING GRAMMAR SCHOOL.
| Ss  i
| find RE Ax ea wen
| 
|  
|  
|  
| 
|  
,
| VII. THE EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
| size
- rf gE gE go GEES
! gf Tre
, RES ae zi BE  
|   
|   
,  
|    Correct record not available
 
:   . 
VIII. AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUPILS PER TEACHER
IN THE GRADES BASED UPON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP FOR TIIE MONTH OF
NOVEMBER.
Average Number Puptle Aver Tew her ues
Year per pring ieate "ho have Aenistants
   
Looe !

REPORT OF SCHOVUL COMMITTEE  !
IX. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES IN HIGH
SCHOOL AND GRADES.
 zs  RE 
al om m— e/  er
i || Bee Hi 
|| po |
. Dee.  soa BOT  sel see  ] cove
Dec. rr ‘on   ecclo ecnsl ce
| |
Dec.  ase a
Dec.  sete te
Dec. |... ou “c ccuteates cose
Dec.  )......| cose. cde
Dec.   
ec.  |
Dec.  esl  

‘
|
|
|
Miscellaneous Tables and Information.
| —
}
RESIGNATIONS, APPOINTMENTS AND TRANSFERS.
| DAY SCHOOL TEACHERS.
Resignations.
| George H. Dalrymple Mary E. O’Neill
| Frank Halstead Mary E. O’Connell
! Lena W. Barrus Mary B. Keough
: Charles W. Annable Ellen I. Alderman
| Lillian Fenton Margaret M. FitzGerald
| Anna B. Fitzgerald.
|
! Appointments.
Charles Hi. Mumma George W. MacDow
! Edwin M. Roberts Eva C. Greaney
Mrs. Elizabeth Perkins Ehzabeth M. Bowe
, George D. Hearn Ruth L. Porterfield
A. Omer Hebert. Agnes E. Rohan
Claire E. Nugent.
Transfers.
Mabel C. Teahan Katherine S. Keough
Emma G. Scolley Elizabeth M. Dalton
Anna M. Warren Mary E. Hussey
Mrs. Katherine T. Morris.

|
( |
 Memoriam |
ANNIE L. KENNELLY
For twenty-one years teacher in the public schools of Holyoke, Massachusetts.
Died the eleventh of May,  .
|
».

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
SCHOOL BUILDINGS.

SOHOOL Ey es ag  
ez  Ige#)g&| sé  og
| Gres}  g? #
S az ZAG]  

High  KF is rome , 
Appleton St. 'Red brickj   
Carlton St. /Red bri  
E. Dwight St. )Red brick!   
Elm St.  )Red brick| 
Elmwood  /Red brick,   
Ewingville Red brick   
Hamilton St.  Red brick/  
Highland  Hest Brick.   
Ingleside  ,Red brick}  
Kirtland  Red brick;   
Morgan  \Red brick)  
Nonotuck St. Red briek! v.  
Park St.  Red brick   
Sargeant St.  Red brick; )  
S. Chest’t St./ )/Red brick,   
Springdale /Red brick   
West. St.  Eight, Brick,  
W. Holvoke  Wood  
Wm. Whiting  Red briek   

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
PUBLIC SCHOOL CHILDREN’S AID FUND. 

The following table shows the yearly Thanksgiving
offering of the children of the publie schools. The money
is spent for clothing for needy children.
Year Amount Year Amount
   
 .  —

Total 

VALUE OF ART AND SCIENCE COLLECTIONS.
School. Art. Science. Referenoe Tibrary
High ............  
Appleton Street ..  
Elm Street ......  
Elmwood ........  
Ewingville .......  
Hamilton Street .. 
Highland ........  
Ingleside ........  
Kirtland ........  
Morgan .........  
Nonotuek Street ..  )
So. Chestnut St...  
Springdale ......  
‘West Street .....  
West Hoyolke ...  
William Whiting.  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
REPORT OF FIRE DRILLS,  .

Principals are required to have at least one fire drill
every month of the school year. The signal for fire drill is
uniform throughout the city,—one long ring.

The following tables show the number of fire drills that
has been held ‘in each school with the time in minutes and
seconds for one drill month.

Number of Fire Drills.

School hal alls r| i] la
f/S{alé}a/  é

Appleton St.  {/ /] )] );, )j 
E. Dwight St. 
Elm St. Pil;  {, ;, ri Ww
Elmwood  ); ); ); ); /) 
Ewingville  )/ )|  
Hamilton St. bi ijifaj )B
Highland  !] ;, )]  
Ingleside  )] /)/ {] /) 
Kirtland  /] /;  
Morgan   
Nonotuek St. ); 
Park St.  
Sargeant St.  )/  
So. Chestnut St. ]| | Il
Springdale   
West St. oezziriyiz  is
William Whiting [| ]) |W

REPORT OF SCHUOL COMMITIEE :
TIME OF FIRE DRILLS. |
Time |
School Date Min.Sece.
Appleton Street, Fsfs  
Feb.  .............-.+ +-- |
Mar. Q.........    ele
April  ........... 
May  .................... 
. June  .................... 
Sept.  ........... 
Oct. BOL...      ee ld
NOV.  .........   ld
Dee.  ...................- 
East Dwight Street, NOV.  ...  ... cc   
Dec.  B... cc         ot
Elm Street, Jan. ll.................... 
Feb.  ...............  —
Mar.  ..........     OS!
April  .............  
May  d.............. —
June  ...........   OP"
Sept. mace       OO
Oct.  ............. —
NOV. Circe  eccsee —wd
Dee.  ......  ... OO
Elmwood Jan. W.............. —O 
Feb.  .................... dd
Mar. ............  
April  .............   OO
May  ......  ...    Ob
June Berwece   ew    ee) Ib
Sept.  ........      be  
Oct.  .............. --  
- Nove Uv cc    sT— |
Dec. G......... .. .-  
L

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Time
School Date Min.Sec.
Ewingville, Jan.  ...       
Feb.  ......  ...   le
Mar.  .........  ele
April  ......  ...  ede
May  .......  ...    le
June Qh...        OU
Sept.  .......     lL Oi
Oct. Dhow  esesecl—  
Nov. Be.     tee   ele
Dec.  .... cc.      ees  
Hamilton Street, Sept. ... ....    dle
Oct. Ueve  s  )
Nov.  ...     es AO
Dee.  ..  —AM 
Highland, Jan, De ec s 
Mar. ee
April Boece    BD
May ee
June rT
Sept. ee
Oct.  ...    ener ees TOO
Nov. Bocce  rece   s
Dee,  di ec s Hp
Ingleside, Jan.  ... cc     ees  
Feb.:  S. ec Tl
Mar.  ...   s
April aa
May Ok
June LBiv ec Hl
Sept. TL... ..ee   erent d
Oct.  G...     ees HO
Nov. Toc cce    eens ee

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Time
School Date Min.See.
Kirtland, Jan.  .........cec —O 
Feb. ..........-.  —O 
Mar.  .............. +-. —a 
April To... kee    HO
May  ....... ec 
| June  .................... —— 
Sept.  ..........   OO ,
, Oct.  ............. .- 
: Nov.  d.....  ...     ) oO
Dee. T......c   ees O
| Morgan, Jan. ll..... ee...     le
, Feb.  ............ —ol
Mar.  ........... !
April  l..........  :
| May  ........... .e  :
: June la........ cc       OOO
; NOV.  ..   cecvecs Ol
Dee.  .............  OO |
Nonotuek Street, Jan.  ..........      
| Feb.  ...................- 
Mar.  ......... .... -.-  
| April  .......    ede
. June  ........  
. Sept.  ... .....  De
Oct.  ...     |
 Nov.  ... .  nee !
. Dee re bo S|
‘ Park Street, Jan.  ...... cc  ewe   OO |
: Mar.  ..........cc     |
April  ....... ..  +. 
May  ..... cc  es BO
“ June  ............     BO |
 Sept.  .........   ees AO |
|
L

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Time
School Date Min.Sec.
Oct.  ...........      OD
Nov.  ...... eces BO
Dee.  .......... OO
Sargeant Street, Jan  ... ... cc   ee AO
Mar.  ..........  
April  ............ HO
May  ..........     Om
June  d.......    
Sept. Ger  ecceses  
Oct.  ...       HO
Nov. ld ...  HD
Dec.  .......ce     es HO
So. Chestnut Street, Jan.  D.    cere   el
Mar.  ........cc  ence OO
April  ........... ele
May  
June  ......ccec s OD
| Sept. ES Soe
Oct.  ......     ld  
Nov.  ......   cree es dl
Dec.  .......    le
Springdale, Jan,  .. ecec Ol
Mar.  ......ccec s  
May Doce cence  HB
June Boece     teens Hh
Sept.  ... ... cc     eens d
| Oct. Be ess 
Nov. i
; Dec. Bi ecr Hl
West Street, Jan.  —
Feb.  .....     de
Mar.  ...     ele
April ES Coe

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Time
School Date Min.See.
May  .......... le
JuMe  B...   ee ele
Sept.  .......  ...     elm
Oct. QO...     ele
NOV.  .......    lm
Dee.  ..........     Le
Wiliam Whiting, April Sec cc   ecto eens
June See ete     ,
Sept.  ...... ee  
Oct. Qt...    
NOV. Bi  cl
NUMBER OF BATHS GIVEN AT WILLIAM WHITING
SCHOOL.
Month Davy Sehvol Vacation Total
May, ..........  
June, ..........  
July, ..........  
August, ........  
September, ..... TAT TAT
October, .......  
November, .....  
December, ......  
Total ...........  
RATES OF TUITION FOR NON-RESIDENT PUPILS.
The rates of tuition for non-resident pupils are as
follows :
High School .......... cec cec   per vear
Elementary Schools ................... per year
Payable half-yearly in advance.

GRADUATING CLASSES
HIGH SCHOOL.

Carl Churchill Armstrong Mary Magdalen Karner
Florence Emma Barber Alice Katherine Keating
Jaocb Louis Barowsky Martha Gladys Keough
Ruth Ellen Barrows Irene Blanche Lavoie

; John Stephen Begley Edward August Lehmann
Francis Edward Boardway John Thomas Lynch
William Henry Bond, Jr. Joseph Edward Lynch
Marion Margaret Bradshaw Edith Mary Lyons
George Leroy Bronson Raymond T. McCarthy
Frank Edmund Buckley Lillian Rose MeCuddy
John Robert Burke Bessie Taylor MeGuiness
Esther Claire Burkhardt Anna Ursula McHugh
Christine Elizabeth Callahan Rose Madelon MeNaught
Frances Louise Callahan Kathleen Cecelia Manley
James Gilbert Cavanaugh Mildred Spooner Manson
Rosamond Eugenia Celee Fredrick William Marx
Priscilla Elizabeth Childs Charles Edgar Mayette
Clarence Sze King Chow Florence Gertrude Mew
Cleora Katherine Chureh Frances Moise
Hugh Clark Mae Frances Moriarty
Eloise Adele Corser Dorothy Rude Monson
Patrick Joseph Cronin Richard John Nugent
Mabel Emogene Curtis Frances Genevieve O’Connell
Violet Agnes Diamond Margaret Hyacinth O’Connell
William James Donoghue Harry William Partridge
Edward Joseph Dowling Helen Grace Phillips
Cathryn C ha Fitzgerald Adelaide Cicily Pope
Veronica M. Fitzgerald Earl Charles Popp
Raphael Russell Fitzsimmons Jeane Louise Potwin

Bo
|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Elizabeth Olga Foerster Raymond Henry Renardson
Mary Agnes Forsythe Mary Edith Rigali
Edale Garside William Francis Rooney
Patrick Edward Gear Catherine Cecelia Ryan
dames Tierney Gilligan Edward Joseph Scanlon
Mary Madeline Gorman George Augustus Scheibel
Ruth Wylie Gow Alice Cornelia Seully
Helen Margaret Grace Rachel Dorothy Siekman 
Daniel James Griffin Gertrude May Smith
Maurice Lawrence Griffin John IJeaton Smith
Raymond Cavanaugh Hafey William Francis Sullivan
Clarence Edwin Hart Kathleen Veronica Thorpe
Frances Folsom Heffron Madeline Katherine Tierney
Ruth Margaret Heinritz Helena Frances Toepfert
Stuart Franklin Heinritz Rachel Ilian Treworgy
Jessie Ruth Henderson Gordon Prescott Trowbridge
Earl Ravmond Hiebel Amelia Elizabeth Wagner
Otto William Hilbert George Francis Walsh
Fannie Hildreth Edward Joseph Welch
Stuart Merriam Alill William Whiting,  d
lillian Holgate Philip Francis Whitten
Olive Margaret Howes Lewis Clark Wilcoxen
James Henry Hyde Ethel Rose Williams
Agnes Margaret. Kane
APPLETON STREET SCIIOOL.
Howard William Aiken Anthony Howard Manley
Elsie May Armitage May Josephine Masterson
Alice Crane Ball Rufus Everett Morehouse
Elvira Gertrude Ball John Francis Moriarty
Anna Barger Estelle Strong Murray
Reid Oswald Besserer Ellen Katherine Murray
Esther Hildegarde Brown Mary Viola McGuiggan
Esther Windolph Cameron Ruth Belle Newcomb
Frederick William Celce Alice Katherine O’Connor
— 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Frederick Hale Clark Anna Carroll O’Leary
Edith Dorothea Conway Irene Madaline O’Neil
Alice Elizabeth Cronin Lorenzo John Pasquinnucci
Marion Martha Crosby Flossie Adele Pearson
Francis James Cunneff Ruth Alice Prouty
Robert Grant Dooley Myrtie Adrean Provost
 Francis Joseph Dowd Lillian Isabelle Putnam
Gertrude Marie Duggan Franklin Howard Quirk
Anna Louise Dunn William Bernard Rogers
Helen Mary Dwight Alice Marie Roulier
Arthur Conniel Francis John Arthur Savoy
Katherine Hanley Franz Gertrude Agnes Shea
Ruth May Gabler James Richard Shea
Ear] Chester Gammage William Joseph Shea
Francis Moses Gaylord John Leroy Sheehan
Minnie Gwendoline Getler Homer Mercer Sinelair
Juliette Mary Girard Vineent Anderson Smith
Constanee Green Philip Huntley Stacy
Wallace Raymond Green Ralph Walter Stedman
Soly Greene Francis Worthington Steele
Ebba Caroline Hansen Florence Street
Lillian Harre Ella Mary St. Jacques
Abraham Hirsch George Bernard Sullivan
Stanley Howard Howes John Edmund Taylor
George Hunter Katherine Louise Thayer
Oliver Wesley Hutchinson Elizabeth Janet Thompson
Edmund Henry Johannis Ida Lavinia Tiffany
Helen Marie Kennedy Bertha Ellen Tierney
Mary Constance Keyes Mary Gertrude Tierney
Morris Koss Ruth Ellen Walker
Harold Franvis Lyneh Sarsfield James Wolohan
Edward John Lyons Joseph Amos Wood
Arthur Irving Macdonald Marjorie Young

REPURT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
| ELM WOOD SCHOOL.
Carlton Robert Baush Adeline Jane Hildreth

Mabel Emma Baush Arthur Andrew Horne
Thomas Jennings Begley John Edson Lowell
Edith Bliss Frances Lillain Mary Maher
Arthur Wilbert Brooksbank John Joseph McLean
Mary Margaret Conway Elsie Ann McLean
Ruth Evangeline Conway Harold Everett McCormick
Richard Mansfield Cleveland Mabel Louise Mennell
Elixabeth Davies Lillian Mae Morrison
Robert Burtwell Dearden Francis Daniel Moynihan
Charles Henry Desmond Emma Josephine Nelsson
George Docherty Arthur Thomas Nye
Richard Edward Dreicorn Elliot John Reed
Charles Oswald Friedrich Mary Ellen Sheehan
Eva Agnes Girard John Edward Slavin
Anna Gertrude Gorman Warren Martin Smith
Charles Edward Grace Lilhan May Smith
| Pauline Gordon Lula Elizabeth Stimpson
Gladys Lonise Grieves Isabel Gracey Weis
Francis Jerome Hallisey Robert Clarence Wilhelm
Joseph Hogan Thomas Butler Wood
Harold Daniel Hogan James Howard Wright
Raymond Thomas Hogan ,
HIGHLAND SCHOOL. }
Christine Elaine Adams Allin Wilbur Ladd
Evelyn Elizabeth Allyn Greta Elizabeth Loomis
Rosella Marion Andrews Charles James Lyons
Mary Frances Ashe Timothy Edward Lyons
Chester Cornwall Bond Joseph Frances Mangum
Francis James Bowe Kathleen Maria Cecilia Marr
Trene Mary Claire Bowler Maurice Mason
Katherine Elizabeth Bowler Charlotte MeCorkindale
Alice Bradley Grace Marie MeCuddy |

a  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Edward John Brennan: ... Arthur James MeDonald
Kathleen Loretta Bresnahan Charles Robert Moffatt
Gertrude Florence Browne  Edith Marion Morton
Lolo Martha Buck ‘'  John Patrick O’Connor
Eva Constance Buckley Raymond Joseph O’Donnell |
Inving Edward Bullard ‘Mary Margaret O'Grady —‘ |
Rosare John Cardinal  Frederick James O’Keefe ,
Walter Edward Carey ‘Mary Elizabeth O’Reilly |
Marvy Elizabeth Cleary Doris Snell Patee
) Paul Cotter Cora Louise Pearson
Jessie Marshall Cowan Helen Louise Pellissier |
Elois Martha Davis Beatrice Emma Ryan
Willard Edward Dickinson Jean Marie Sawin }
Rudolph Arthur Dietz  Luey Erskine Sawyer |
Mary Kathryn Dillon Rachel Elizabeth Seully
William Harold Doyle Mary Margaret Shea Oo
Lenore Margaret Dwyer Stanley Herbert Smith
Vesta Jackson Eaton Elizabeth Michal Sorton
Esther Elizabeth Evans Elsie Lorraine Stedman |
Eliza Gaylord Leon Franeis Stedman —
Cornelia Dorcas Gill Charles Caldwell Stewart
Elizabeth Geraldine Haley Brooke -Abbott Sykes ‘
 Helen Coreillio Haley Frances Leota Thorpe

Elizabeth Platt Hannum Grace Luella Treworgy
Loretta Cecelia Horrigan John Leo Vershon
Olive Kathryn Horrigan Harriet Eaton Webber
Lilhan Mabel Howes Estelle Emma Wells.

. Harold Tfunter Judson Mary Genevieve Wesely
John Edward Kallaugher Madeline Whitten
Constance Kelton Daniel Paul Williamson
Mary Regina Kirkpatrick Edna Wilson
Alfred Sisson Ladd

REPORT OF SCHOUL COMMITTEE  
MORGAN SCHOOL.

Cornelius Edward Ahern Lena Esther Keane Doris Belle Ainley Flora Wanda Klopfer |
Florena Marie Bangs Margaret Elizabeth Kreuter,
Ellwood James Baird Mary Kress .
Leo Beaulieu  Lillian Langhauser |
Alice Lina Benard Ella Augusta Laudenat |
Archie Bentley Raymond Stevens London,
Max Berman Hazel Marion Marshall )
Amelia Louise Bieber Esther Helen Martin ,
Edmund Joseph Boldue Yvette Margaret Martnineau
Rose Anita Charbonneau Margaret Annie Miller o
Romeo Philip Charest Edouard Victor Messier ,
Margaret Clark Francis Joseph Musante
Herman Cohen William Albert Neumann |
Ethel Cramer William Neumann |
Michael Vincent Crane Mabel Ruth O’Connell
Flora Bertha Dreikorn Charles Patrick O’Connor
Emil Arnold Eckart Laura Beatrice Prilay
John Daniel Finnerty Frieda Gertrude Resnick !
Margaret Cecilia Freeman Wilfred Rosazza
Erla Emma Fricke Florence Evelvn Sellers |
Flora Frieda Fuessel Roy Stebbins "
Esther Ruth Gander Alfred Hermann Schlichting
Elizabeth Giehler Raymond Charles Seully .
Walter Geissler Cornelius Jerome Sullivan
Israel Greenspan Agnes Mitchell Thomson
Katherine Helen Hanretty  Edward Vernier .
Walter Joseph Hawkins Hulda Amelia Webber
Anna Frances Herre Arthur Carl Weissbach |
Benjamin Kaufman |

——- REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
WEST STREET SCHOOL.
Amedie Alfred Joseph Allen Carl Franklin Lipps
Samuel Albert Brunelle Margaret Goode Metcalf
Raymond Wallace Clark Thomas Joseph Monahan
Daniel Joseph Collins Helen Waterston Muir
Narcisse Amedee De Roy Florida Hedwilda Nichols
Mary Helen Dunphy Edward Leo Prevost
Viola Evelyn Gallagher Elizabeth Mildred Reilly
Peter Francis Harris Elizabeth Rose Shea
Ida Bertha Kaplinsky Ruth Adaline Squier
) Thomas Edward Kirkpatrick Marciene James Sullivan
Jennings Alfred La Pierre
WEST HOLYOKE SCHOOL.
Philip Martin
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
— George Arthur Battersby Harvey Joseph Gauthier
John Bresnahan Jessie Henderson
Harry Gladstone Craven Ruth Frances Kennedy
Agnes Driscoll Henry Vincent Miller
George Aitken Ellis Charles Kimball Morrison
Mary Agnes Fitzgerald Margaret Gertrude Shea
APPLETON STREET EVENING SCHOOL.
Oscar George Bienvenue Daniel McEwan
Francis Joseph Burke Norah Elizabeth O'Connell
Clara Collinge Theresa Constance O’Connor
Ernest James Craven Catherine Teresa O’Hare
Trene Bernardine Fagan Juliette Bertha Perry
Leo Ilenry Finnerty Amadee Isador Roberts
Walter Arthur Gendron Helen Franees Rogers
Margaret Teresa Gilboy Ernest Eugene Rosseau

EE Oeoor 
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITIEE  
Kathaleen Marie Gillespie Mary Margaret Shugrue
Helen Frances Harding Mary Catherine Smith
Charles Roger Hogan Lillian Gertrude Sullivan
Clara Holgate John Joseph Taft
Romeo Louis Langevin Thomas Aloysius Thompson
Leonard Frederick Law Leo Louis Trudeau
Elzear Loiselle Charlotte Helen Young
Emil Louis Mathey
MORGAN EVENING SCHOOL.
Aldora E. Duval Celina Cecile Tremblay
Antoinette E. Provost Libere Cecile Paquette
Edna Grace Moreau Oswald Frank Trumpold
Rosa Yvonne Lamarche Henry Leonidas Bouvier
Ozama Marguerite Brouillard Joseph Rodrique Langlois ,
Rose Alpha Cartier [laine George Granger
Yvonne Elizabeth LamagdeWEST STREET EVENING SCHOOL. |
Mary Delia Bonneau Rose Frances Burke»
Almaid Julienne Jette August Bihler
Cora Lea Ducharme Mary Agnes Moran
Albert Napoleon Gadbois Lulu Veronica Leary
Antonio Ferdinand Belisle Francis Philibert
Lillian Agatha Hoye Henry Labelle
]
i
\
i

.
|
|  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
| LIST OF AUTHORIZED TEXT BOOKS. "
| ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Grade I. ,
| Beginner’s Primer ,
Sunbonnet Babies’ Primer
| Wide Awake Primer ’
| Rose Primer
| Cyr Primer
| Cyr First Reader ,
| Child Life Primer JE
Child Life First Reader :
Aldine Primer |
| Aldine First Reader
| Art Literature Primer :
! Art Literature Book One
Baker Carpenter Primer  
Baker Carpenter First Year Language Reader
| Stepping Stones to Literature First Reader
: New Edueation Book One  
Baldwin First Year Reader ,
Silver-Burdett First Book Jones Book One )
| Action, Imitation and Fun Series: :
The Little Red Hen ,
The Three Pigs
The Three Bears ,
Three Little Kittens—Chivken Little
Red Riding Hood—The Seven Kids
Bow-Wow and Mew-Mew
Puss in Boots—Revnard the Fox
Jack the Giant-Killer
Hop My Thumb—Tom Thumb
Jack and the Bean Stalk and Other Tales

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE rot

Grade II. :
Aldine Seeond Reader Oo Cyr Second Reader Child Life Second Reader Do
Stepping Stones to Literature Second Reader .
New Edueation Book Two |
Baldwin Seeond Year Reader
Stlver-Burdett Second Book ,
Jones Book Two  
Baker Carpenter Second Year Language Reader ,
Art Literature Book Two |
Scudder’s Fables and Folk Stories
Beckwith’s In Mythland, Vol. I. ,
Baldwin’s Robinson Crusoe .
Smith’s Eskimo Stories |
Carroll’s Around the World Book One
Dunton Kelly First Book |
Hyde Language Book  Revised }
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetie Book Two
Prang's Text Books of Art Education Book II

Grade III. ;
Williams Choice Literature
New Education Book Three :
Baldwin Third Year Reader
Silver-Burdett Third Year Book
Junes Book Three
Art Literature Book Three
Baker Carpenter Third Year Language Reader
Baldwin’s Old Greek Stories
Longfellow’s Selections
Andrews’ Seven Little Sisters
Shaw’s Big People and Little People of Other Lands
Pratt’s Stories of Colonial Children
Wilson’s History Reader-for Elementary Schools

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Dunton Kelly First Book
Hyde Language Book  Revised
Steps in English Book One ;
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Three
 Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book III
American Music Reader I
Grade IV.
Williams Choice Literature
New Education Book Four
Baldwin Fourth Year Reader
Jones Book Four
Baker Carpenter Fourth Year Language Reader
Whittier’s Selections
Longfellow’s Selections
Eggleston’s Stories of Great Americans ,
Andrews’ Each and All
Hawthorne’s Daffy-Down-Dilly
Legends of the Red Children
Carroll’s Around the World Book Two
Frve’s Brooks and Brook Basins
Long’s Ways of Wood Folks
Tappan’s American Hero Stories  
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly First Book
Steps in English Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Four
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography First. Book, Part One
Prang’s Text Books of Art Edueation Book  V
American Musie Reader IT
SWebster’s Common School Dictionary
Grade V.
Williams Choice Literature
New Edueation Book Five
Baldwin Fifth Year Reader

REPORT OF SCHUOL COMMITTEE  
Jones Book Five
Baker Carpenter Fifth Year Language Reader
Hawthorne’s Wonder Book
Longfellow’s Hiawatha
Eggleston’s First Book in American History
Builders of Our Oountry Book One
Carpenter’s North America
Carpenter’s South America
Long’s Wilderness Ways
Good Health, Gueliek Series
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly Language Lessons
Steps in English Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Five
King’s Elementary Geography
Prang’s Text Book of Art Education Book |
American Music Reader II
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Grade VI.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Sixth Year Reader
Jones Book Six
Baker Carpenter Sixth Year Language Reader
Burrough’s Birds and Bees and Sharp Eyes
Hawthorne’s Tanglewood Tales
Longfellow’s Miles Standish
Franeillon’s Gods and Heroes
Long’s Seerets of the Wood
Builders of Our Country Book Two
Gordy’s American Leaders and Herves
Carpenter’s Europe |
Carpenter’s Asia
Carpenter’s Africa
Carpenter’s Australia, Our Colonies, and Other Islands of
the Sea

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Emergencies, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly Language Lessons
Steps in English Book Two |
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Six
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography Second Book, Part One
Prang’s Text Book of Art Education Book VI |
American Music Reader II |
Webster’s Common School Dietionary |
Grade VII.
Williams Choice Literature .
Baldwin Seventh Year Reader .
Jones Book Seven '
a Irving’s Sketch Book .
Lamh’s Tales of Shakespeare
Franklin’s Autobiography .
Holmes’ Selection .
Whittier’s Snow-bonnd .
Kingsley ’s Greek Heroes ,
. Longs’ Wood Folk at School .
Town and City, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons ,
Dunton Kelly Grammar .
The Mother Tongue Book One |
Steps in Enghsh Book Two ,
Milne’s Progressive Aritmetie Second Book
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography Seeond Book, Part Two |
Barnes’ Brief History of the United States
Montgomery’s United States Thstory
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VIT
American Music Reader HI
Webster’s Common School Dictionary

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE roe!
Grade VIII. ,
Williams Choice Literature a
Baldwin Eighth Year Reader  
Jones Book Eight ;
Hawthorne’s Legends of New England
Hawthorne’s Tales of the White Hills |
Longfellow’s Evangeline .
Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal
Guerber’s Story of the Greeks |
Higginson Channing English History for Beginners
The Body at Work, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly Grammar |
The Mother Tongue Book Two |
Buehler’s Modern English Grammar
Steps in English Book Two
Milne’s Progressive Arithmetic Third Book
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Barnes’ Brief History of the United States |
Montgomery’s United States History 
Higginson’s United States History  copies)
Scendder’s United States Mistory,.  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)’
American Music Reader IV. |
Natural Advanced Music Reader ,
Webster’s Common School Dictionary so
 obr “Grade  X

Williams® Choies Literature |
Scott’s Ivanhoe :
Scott's Lady of the Lake
Longfellow’s Tales of Wayside Inn
Bryant’s Selections

|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Guerber’s Story of the Romans !
Julius Caesar
Merchant of Venice \
| Control of Body and Mind, Guelick Series k
The Mother Tongue Book Two sh
Buehler’s Modern English Grammar 
Lewis’ First Manual of Composition  copies) “
Steps in English Book Two
Bradbury’s Eaton’s Practical Arithmetic |
. Wentworth’s Elementary Algebra fs
Morton’s Advanced Geography i
Barnes’ Brief History of the United States  
Montgomery’s United States History bg
Higginson’s United States History  copies) E
Seudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies) i
, Fiske’s United States History  copies) i
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies) P
American Music Reader IV 
, Natural Advanced Music Reader
; Webster’s Common School Dictionary .
| Books for Teacher’s Desk.  :
‘ Perry’s Bible Manual |
Ireland’s Story, Johnson
. Smith’s Physiology
| Blaisdell’s Physiology
Dunglison’s Physiology |
: Books Not Assigned to Grades.
. Union Series Physiology, Books One, Two and Three
' Miller Spaulding Series of Spellers |
f
et
Digitized by Google
detec

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
HIGH SCHOOL.
English.
Author Title
Addison Sir Roger de Coverly Papers
Arnold Sohrab and Rustum
Brooke English Literature Primer
Brvant Selections
Burke Essay on Conciliation with
the American Colonies
Burke Essay on American Taxation
Burns Poems
Byron Selections (Arnold)
Carlvle Essay on Burns
Chaucer Prologue and Knight’s Tale
Coleridge The Ancient Mariner
Cooper The Last of the Mohicans
DeQuineey Flight of Tartar Tribe
Dickens Tale of Two Cities
Dowden Life of Shakespeare (Primer)
Drviden Alexander’s Feast
Drvden Palamon and Arcite
Eliot Silas Marner
Emerson Fortune of the Republie
Emerson Essay on Culture, Books, ete.
Gavley Classic Myths
Genung Outlines of Rhetoric
Genung Practical Rhetorie
Genung Rhetorical Analysis
Goldsmith Deserted Village and  The
Traveler

Goldsmith Vicar of Wakefield
Gray Poems (Selections)
Guerher Myths of Gr  and Rome
Guerber Myths of Northern Lands
Hawthorne IIouse of the Seven Gables

-  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Hawthorne Legends of New England
Hawthorne Twice Told Tales
Hawthorne The Wonder-Book
Hitchcock Enlarged Practica Book in
- English Composition ,
Holmes Selections ,
Irving Sketch Book (Six Selections)
Irving The Alhambra
Irving Life of Goldsmith
Irving Tales of Traveler
Lincoln Gettysburg Sph
| Longfellow Evangeline

Lowell Vision of Sir Launfal
Macaulay Essay on the Earl of Chatham
Macaulay Essay on Johnson

| Macaulay Essay on Milton and Addison
Milton Lyrics
Milton Paradise Lost (Books and I!)
Pancoast Introduction to English Literature
Plutarch Lives (Selections)
Pope Rape of the Lock
Pope Translation of the Iliad
Richardson American Literature (Primer'
Scott Ivanhoe
Scott Lady of the Lake
Scott Lay of the Last Minstrel
Scott Marmion
Shakespeare “As You Like It
Shakespeare Hamlet |
Shakespeare Julins Caesar
Shakespeare King John .
Shakespeare Macbeth (Gateway and Rolie
Editions)

Shakespeare Merchant of Venice
Shakespeare Midsummer Night's Dream

|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE |

Shakespeare .» Twelfth Night  
Shakespeare.  Sonnets
Shakespeare Antony and Cleopatra  
Shakespeare Henry V.
Shakespeare Henry VIII.
Shakespeare King Lear
Shakespeare Much Ado About Nothing ,
Shakespeare Othello
Shakespeare Romeo and Juhet
Shakespeare The Tempest
Shakespeare Two Noble Kinsmen
Shakespeare Winter’s Tale
Southey Life of Nelson
Spenser Faerie Queen  .
Spenser Facrie Queen IT.
Tennyson Poems
Thoreau Suecession of The Forest

Trees ,
Warner Hunting of the Deer
Webster First Bunker Hill Oration
Wordsworth Poems (Arnold Selections)

French.
Daudet Tartarin de Tarascon
Dumas La Tulipe Noire
Francois Advanced French Prose Com, position
Francois and Giroud Simple French ,
Fraser and Squair Grammar Elementary and |
Complete

Halevy L’Abbe Constantin
Labiche Martin La Poudre aux Yeux
Labiche Martin Le Voyage de M. Perrichon
La Fontaine Fables
Lamartine Jeanne d’Are |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Larousse Grammaire Francaise
Logie About, Le Roi des Montagnes
Loti  Pecheur d’Islande
Merimee Colomba
: Moliere Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme
Pailleron Le Monde ou  ’on S’Ennuie
Sandeau Mlle. de la Segliere
Sarcey Le Siege Paris
Super French Reader
| German.
Bacon Im Vaterland
Baumbach Die Nonna
Frevtag Soll und Haben
Frevtag Die Journalisten
Goethe Dichtung und Wahrheit
Guethe Hermann und Dorothea
Guerber Marehen und Erzahlunged,
Parts I-III

Heath German Dictionary
Heine Die Harzreise
Jagemann Syntax
Jovnes-Meissner German Grammar
Kayser and Monteser Brief Gefman Course
Lessing Minna von Barnhelm
Manley Allen Four German Comedies
Moser Der Bibliothekar
Pope German Composition —
Riehl Der Fluch der Schonheit

| Schiller Wilhelm Tell
Storm Immensee
Wildenbruch Das Edle Blut

Supplementary German.

Baumbach Der Schweigersohn

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Hauff Das kalte Herz
Heyse L’Arrabbiata
Von Hillern Hoher als die Kirche
Latin and Greek.
Allen and Greenough Virgil
Allen and Greenough Cicero
Allen and Greenough Caesar
Allen and Greenough Ovid ,
Allen and Greenough Latin Grammar
Allen aul Greenough New Latin Grammar
Barss Cornelius Nepos
Barss Writing Latin, Book One, Revised Edition |
Barss Writing Latin, Book Two, Revised Edition |
Collar and Daniell Greek Composition
D’Ooge Viri Romae
Goodwin Greek Grammar
Goodwin and White Xenophon’s Anabasis ,
Hale First Year Latin
Herberman Sallust’s Cataline :
Jones Latin Composition |
Keep Use of Moods and Tenses
Moulton Latin Composition |
Sevmour Homer’s Odyssey )
White First Greek Book
History. ,
Ashley American Government |
Channing History of the United States
Cheney Short Iistory of England
Johnson Ireland’s Story
McLaughlin Mistory of the American Nation

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
, Myers Ancient History
Walker Essentials in English History, |
Revised
West Ancient History
 Wolfson Essentials of Ancient History
Mathematics. :
| Hall and Knight School and College Algebra
Hedrick Algebra
; Sanders Elements of Plane and Solid
  Geometry
Wentworth Elementary Algebra
— Wentworth Revised Plane Geometry ,
| Wentworth Revised Plane and Solid Geometryv
| Wentworth Second Revision Plane and
Spherical Trigonometry
Science.
| Atkinson Botany for Schools
Clark and Dennis Elementary Chemistry
| Clark and Dennis Laboratory Manual for Above
Carhart and Chute High School Physics
Coulter Plants
Fairbanks Physiography
Russell Kelley Laboratory Manual for FirstYear Science
Tarr Von Engeln Laboratory Manual for Physical Geography
Commercial.
Carrington Speed Book for Typewriting
Eldridge Shorthand Dictation Exerelses
Gannett, Garrison Houston Commercial Geography

REPORT OF SCHOUL COMMITTEE  

Gano Commercial Law

Harper Your Own Typewriter JInstructor

Moore New Commercial Arithmetic

Isaac Pitman Short Course. in Stenography

Power and Lyons Typewriter Instructor

Willams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping

Wiliams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Banking

Domestic Science.

Norton ‘Food and Dietetics

Williams and Fisher Elements of the Theory of
Cooking

Elocution.
Emerson Evolution of Expression
Evening Schools.

Chancellor Standard Short Course for
Evening Schools

Ewart, Field Morrison Civil Service Manual

O’Brien English for Foreigners

|
REPORT OF
TRUANT OFFICERS
| ——
| To the School Committee of the City of Holyoke.
| Gentlemen :—The following report for the school year
| ending June  th,  is submitted to your honorable
: Board, it being the thirty-seventh annual report of the tru! ant officer department.
| Mr. Thomas H. Finn, who had been substituting for Mr.
! Cadieux from September,  to July  rd,  was ap! pointed truant officer in place of Mr. Cadieux, who re: signed after twenty-two years of faithful service.
) The Committee on Attendance, Census and Truaney
| adopted plan whereby seven men were engaged to take
| the school census instead of two as in former years, and Mr.
| Michael J. Kerin was appointed to attend to the looking up
| of absentees and truants while was supervising the census
and visiting the mills, shops and stores issuing certificates to
illiterate minors between the ages of sixteen and twenty-one
and to minors who could read and write as was required by
Chapter  of the Acts of  .
The number of certificates issued from September  nd
to November  rd,  inclusive, was  Of these,  
were issued to illiterates; to males and to females.
  were issued to minors who were able to read and write;
  to males and to females.
The number of children between five and fifteen years .
. of awe was found to be  gain of over the census
of  .

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
The following tables show the census of children between the ages of five and fifteen years by districts September  st,  September Ist,  and May Ist,  also
the number attending the public, private and parochial
schools, the number at work, and the number neither at
work nor at school, ete.
SCHOOL CENSUS BY DISTRICTS.
| It gt la!
Districts  {] ;} {/  Total
dt
      ........,  
Siw...)  
Gain over  
WHERE THESE CHILDREN ARE TO BE FOUND.
bt tL Net
| Gain}Loss Gain
| tt
| |
No. attending public schools...  ,
" ‘“ St. Jerome schools...  ,
“ “Precious Blood school.  ,
“ “Sacred Heart school...; ,
“ ‘* Perpetual Help school.  
“ ‘‘ Holy Rosary school...  
. ‘“ Immaculate Conception, |
school .........  |
. ‘* Mater Dolorosa school.,  !
“ “Mt. St. Vincent school., !
“ ‘* Holy Family Institute.  
: “Private Kind’g’n school  ,
" ‘other private schools. ..!  
“at work in mills, shops, stores, |
CC.        see|  |
“neither at work nor at school.,;  |
“minding house or housework... 
“deaf and dumb.............  !
“blind oo...        
“ otherwise affected ..........!  ,
| |
a a
Total ........e- --/ 
' t
I It

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The following tables show the number of children in
each district between the ages of five and fifteen years
neither at work nor at school to be  ten more than in
 of these are under the school age (seven years)
and are not obliged to attend school, and twenty-four are
over the compulsory school age (fourteen years), leaving |
twenty-nine children between the ages of seven and fourteen years who, on account of some physical or mental trouble, are not attending any school. The number over fourteen years of age in each district at work in the mills, shops
and stores and the number that are minding house is also
shown.
- oD Ven)  oO
—)  re ol 
ae he eae nee we ae ae o
.  oOo Olin —i|  
| Districts gl elsigigieigigigie|s!s
o/o}|/o!]o}] Oo] @o pa
. es) eB |e) eE)/ el el el el el el a] Ss
. viol /olol/o|l/olsej/oloa/sa|sis
| S'iainiaAiaAainiminimiale!ls
ch cog oid, igh dated a
| |' eha  Ta |
  ra   |}  he Ae   Se ae SPS te SE Pe ae
  ae
 i.  
eer PESitee ,
Total |B)  S] als  
a aeee Se fs
aFP ae Ree Beee )
Districtsee ee
Raeee ae;
Reseeen ReGe Pe ee
ana stores' |  
Minding h’se 'o] 
Pe are Se oeeae|
Tl for |  
ae a,  |
T’l for    

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
ABSENTEES REPORTED.
a{|so om  
aj }e}z/ /e{e/ }e| 
Schools on eenon  
alSjzellelelsg Ele] sé
en:  e- Se ae-Oe se
| \
William Waiting.  
Appleton Street  
Elm Street Lee eo]   
So. Chestnut St..,  
Nonotuck Street..) || aoa}  oat  
Highland .......  
Park Street. ..../  
Hamilton Street..;  s|  
Sargeant Street../  
West Street.....|  
Springdale renee, ! 
Elmwood .......,   
Morgan ........, ]  
Kirtland ......./ af ao  
St. Jerome......   
Precious Blood...  
Sacred Heart...)  
Perpetual. Help../    
Holy Rosary.....,  ot,  
Imm. Conception.’ |  
Mater Dolorosa..'   
ee |
ee GeLg
Total......   
a rei !

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
 m™ re ms
a o& ao Ol alaiaslos —)
Schools Fh HAPRRAEE
;   
ale |e] es} a] ses)  cle
| SiS lzidislelelzisie
William Whiting.   g! 
Appleton Street ..|   
Elm Street .....|  
So. Chestnut St../   
Nonotuck Street.  
Highland .......) pope  
Park Street .....|   
. Hamilton Street...   
Sargeant Street ..; , 
West Street .....'   
Springdale ......,  BT
Elmwood .......,   ag
Morgan ........|   
Kirtland .......; lj)  
St. Jerome....../  
Precious Blood...|  
Sacred Heart....!   
Perpetual Help ..!  gi gi gi gt gk OBB
Holy ‘Rosary.....|  of gi at gt got  
Imm. Conception.)   
Mater Dolorosa “|   
; |
ee ea eesee ee
Total... .../  ff tt

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
a alal@mlalalalalale  .
Schools mp pm pmpe pe pm yp Ss
Sle} eld] el l| ele]  l.e
a} Oo ;
{ ‘
William Whiting.  og 
Avpleton Street...   ,
Elm Street...... |  
So. Chestnut St..' ai ai Ff ako ag
Nonotuck Street. Se ot  
Highland ..... fF EO ty ,
Park Street.....   
Hamilton Street..)  i} SF :
Sargeant Street. ,;  
West Street.....!  
Springdale Ff ge FE
Elmwood .......  Of Boo!  
Morgan .w......)  oF od  }
Kirtland wo...) HF ge EY |
St. Jerome......'   ,
Precious Blood...)  
Sacred Heart.... gh |
Holy Rosary.....  Fo oh FFB gh oat
Perpetual Help wwe fF fF ft fo gr :
Imm. Conception.’   
Maier Dolorosa..|  ai fod i,  
a
' i
Total....,.| '  
|

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
| ges éa- -a  gac  
SB)   -hool ze gfe ge kote ag. lec.
esi   Esf |] gf] oS S£E/ 
“#  fis PSs cE CHO) Sno
William Whiting.; |  
Appleton Street.. A) |
Elm Street....../  
, So. Chestnut St..|  
Nonotuck Street., ao, 
Highland ......! |
Park Street.....) |
, Hamilton Street.. |
Sargeant Street.. |
West Street.....; |  
Springdale ...... ti BT  |
Elnrwood ......, a
Morgan ........,   |
Kirtland .......'  |
Si. Jerome......]  bo  
Precious Blood..| !
Sacred Heart....|   
Perpetual Help..;  
Holy Rosary ....|  (il,  
Imm. Conception  
Mater Dolorosa. .|   |
ee|
| |
Total......' '  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE STREETS.
 CO OCleCoOooOOOOoOoOounoO uwuuQuQ nnanaumnananaaqase yyIEI——E—E—E—E—E— o
 fae)  om Se
. e@lalalalalalal/alala| —
Schools onee hee     eed oe he 
S  om cy
: SS)  :
KSI\SIZIAl Sle slelsle
‘ t
William Whiting. |} |} fa dalal  
Elm Street......, be  
Park Street .....  
West Street...)  ofa! tglaiotalal 
St. Jerome......,   di  
Precious Blood..., yd  
Perpetual Help..  
Holy Rosary.....| |  
Imm. Conception. hy 
| |
CO |
Total...) aa :[ 
' !
a N
TABLE OF AGGREGATES.
lle
ele|i/ fajel/slslisic
Oo ao mr) ao  mo on me on) os
— dF ete] ele) dle ee] eye sé
‘raAléodizlalSiagisilsi  |
Absentees reported' 
Parents or guardi-; fF
ans notified .... 
Absent without,  jj ff 
permission ..... ' 
Returned toschool,   
Summonses served ‘' ‘'  
Probated ......., ||  
Discharged .....  ff GG ET  g
Committed to the en ee
Training School;  POOL tol,  )
{ !
a

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

The number of certificates issued from September  st,
 to September Ist,  to minors between the ages of
sixteen and eighteen years who were able to read and write
simple sentences was  Chapter of the Acts of  
defines the word ‘‘Minor’’ as applied to compulsory attendance at evening schools as follows:

‘*Minor’’ shall mean person under eighteen years of
age, except in regard to the compulsory attendance of illiterate minors at evening schools the word ‘‘ Minor’’ shall mean
a person under the age of twenty-one years.

Under Chapter of the Acts of there were issued
, from September  nd to November  rd inclusive certificates to illiterate minors and to minors who were able
to read and write, total of certifieates having been
issued during the vear.
The number of licenses issued from August  th,  ,
to July Ist,  to newsboys to sell papers was  .
The following table shows the number of age and schooling certificates issued from September Ist,  to September Ist,  also the number of persons rejected on account of not being able to read and write as required by the
statute.
ee
i ]
Number Issued Number Rejected

a
| |

Ages Males Fem’s| Total Males [Fem’s; Total
  to  ....|  .) to to  ....]   to ....|  
tat an Sa ae ar |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
During the school year ending June  th,  sixteen
summonses Were served for truancy. Five boys were committed to the Training School, eleven were placed on probation and their cases were continued from time to time, six
 being finally discharged and the others being still on probation by order of the Court. Eight boys were paroled from
the Training School by the County Commissioners on the
recommendation of Mr. Ward, the superintendent. We
have eight boys now at the Training School and ane of these
Will be paroled in January,  .
Respectfully submitted,
T. W. DOYLE,
Chief.

|

 

{

REPORT OF THE
Gas and Electric Department
OITY OF HOLYOKE, MASS.
,; OFFICE OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldet men:—

Gentlemen :—I hand you herewith the ninth annual
report of the Gas and Electric Department.

There have been no changes nor additions at either of
the lighting plants during the past year, the usual repairs
only having been made to them. All of the increases in
equipment have been made to the distributing systems. Practically three miles of gas mains have been laid, gas service pipes run and new gas meters set. There has been
only small inerease in the ‘business, feet of gas
more ‘being sent out than during the previous year, or  
per cent. The Department has given gallons of tar
to the Board of Public Works for use upon the roads, and
while getting no credit upon its books for the value of the
tar,  should receive the cred of having saved the tax payers about  by so doing.

There have been added to the pole lines miles of
wire and poles. Nineteen additional transformers have
been set and new meters put into service. The output
of electric current has increased nine per cent,  
Kilowatts more being sent out than during  The re— duetion in the price of the street lights and for the current
used in the public buildings went into effect the ‘beginning
of this vear whieh made reduction of  in the amount
the city paid the Department for those items.  less for

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
street lighting,  less for power used and  for the
lighting of the buildings. During the year the Department installed the lights about the grounds of the City Hall and is
maintaining and furnishing the current to them. start
bas been made toward putting the wires underground in the
heart of the city, conduits having ‘been constructed in Railroad street to form part of the main distribution of wires
and current.

During the past year the new eight-hour law has gone
into effect entailing an added expense to the Department
for extra labor of over  per year.

The following tables show the growth of the Department
since the city acquired the lighting plants:

 
Gas sent out, cubic feet........... 
Meters set  ...    eeu   
Miles of main pipe laid...........  
Electricity sent out, Kilowatts

(estimated for  ).........  
Maximum power used, H. P....... ,
Number of customers ............  
Number of meters set............  
Number of transformers set.......  
Miles of wire in streets.........-.  
Poles in streets ...... ececs  
Capacity of station, H. P.........  
Are street lights ......... .e e-  
Incandescent street lights ........  
Price of are street lights..........  
Net Price of gas per cubic feet ,
Net price of electricity per Kilowatt

(estimated ave. for  )..... e

Dee. Nov. .

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Cost of plants ................. |
Book value of plants.............  
Amount added to plants from loans
In nine years ...............  
| Amount added to plants from earnings in nine years ...........  
Bonds paid out of earnings.......  
The following tables present data from the records of
: the gas works:
ft Gas distributed, cubic feet,  
a Coal carbonized, tons, Poe ek,  
” Gas oil used, gallons,. ...  
Coke made, bushels,  
Coke used in retort house, bushels,  
Coke used in water gas generators, bushels,  
, Coke sold, bushels, ...) .,  
Tar made, gallons, ..  
Tar sold, gallons,.  ... yt,  
Tar given to city for highways, gallons, ..  
Regular meters set December  ,.  
Prepay meters set December  ],  
Gain in meters set or per cent.
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
Superintendent, Be,  
Tnspectors, Bo,  
Clerk, er  
Meter and complaint men,. ... Dt;  
Foremen at works,  ...  .)  
Foremen on street work,  .OU,t  
Stokers, Bo  
Water gas makers, Ce,  

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
Water gas helpers, wee eek  
Firemen, ee ek  
Street men,  
Net price of gas  per thousand feet.
The following tables present data from the record of
the electric station:
Current generated, Kilowatts, 
Current sent out, Kilowatts, 
Total number of customers,.  
Power customers,  
Miles of wire, .). Oe  
Number of poles,  
Transformers in use,  
Meters set, 
Commercial are lamps, et  
Street are lamps,  )
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps,  C.P.,. 
Street incandescent lamps, C. P.,.  ..  
Steam coal used, tons, ...  
‘ PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
Superintendent, Ce  
Clerk,  
Foreman,     
Engineers, Ca  
Otlers, Ca  
Firemen,  hy)

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Switchboard men, .  
Trimmers, |
Line and repair men, .... B
Laborers, ee;
Machinists, ee
Electrician, wee ]
 
Net price of electricity for lighting six cents per K. W. ,
The following is the financial statement of the depart
ment:
WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOY. .
INOOME.
Gas and electricity, 
Coke and tar,  
$ 
EXPENSES.
Coal, toe  
Oil, Bk |
Supplies,   |
Repairs, wee  
Water power rental, ..  
Payroll, tee ,
Office expenses,.  
Tnsuranee, rr  
Miscellaneous,   :
———-$ 
Bad debts,  ...  
Interest, re  
Depreciation,  
———————  
$ 
Profit, re 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT |
NOTE.
Netincome,. ., ., 
Bond payments, Soe 
Balance of ineome,. 
BALANCE SHEET, NOV. .
ASSETS.
Plants Nov.  ,
 ,.  .) .)  "
Additions and extensions,  
$ 
Less depreciation,  
—————-$ 
Supplies,  
Coke and tar,  
Book accounts,  
———— 
————  
LIABILITIES.
City of Holyoke, :
cash invested in
plants to date, 
Accounts payable,  
——————-$ 
Depreciation,  
Profit and loss,..  
——————  

| GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
, GAS WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOV.  ,
 .
INCOME.
Gas, weeee 
, ‘Coke and tar, ..  
$ 
|
EXPENSES.
, Coal, wee 
| Oil, 
Supplies, 
| Repairs, oo.  
Water power rental, 
! Payroll, Cook  
| Office expenses,  
| Insurance, .).  
: Miscellaneous, 
| —————$ 
Bad debts,  ... 
Interest, re  
Depreciation, oe  
—  
$ 
Profit,  ...  
NOTE.
Net income, Cee
Bond payments, ...  

Balance of income,.  

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
ELECTRIC WORKING ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING NOV.
  .
INCOME.
Electricity,  ... kk. 
EXPENSES.
Ca, 
Oiland waste,  
Supplies, |.  
Repairs,  |,  
Water power and rental,.  
Pavroll,  
Office expenses,  
Inuranee,  
Miscellaneous,  
—————$ d
Bad debts, ., 
Interest, ... |
Depreciation, 
———— 
Profit, |.
NOTE.
Net income,  ,.., 
Bond payments,  
Balance of imcome,  

  GAS AND ELECTRIC DERARTMENT
BALANCE SHEET, NOV. .
ASSETS.
Gas Works, Cost
Nov. 
Additions and extensions,  
| 
Less depreciation,  
———— 
Supplies,  
Coke and tar, ..  
Book accounts,  
—————  
——. 
Electric Plant, Cost
Nov. 
Additions and  extensions,  
$  |
Less depreciation,  
—————— 
Supplies, ...  
Book accounts,.  
————  
|  
TO
$ 

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
LIABILITIES.
City of Holyoke,
cash invested in
plants to date, 
Accounts payable,  
————$ 
Depreciation,  
Profit and loss,.  
————-$ 
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. SNOW, Manager.
Examined and approved,
December .
WALTER W. EATON,
Publie Accountant.

|
Board of Playground Commissioners 
CITY OF HOLYOKE, MASSACHUSETTS
Chairman.
William J. Howes........................-. year term
Secretary.
, Mrs. James A. Allen........................ Year term
Nathan P. Avery........................... year term
Archibald Brooks.......................... year term
Mary KE. Hussey............................ Year term |
Louis A. LaFrance......................... year term
Frank B. Towne....................... ++ year term
Mrs. William G. Dwight.................... year term
Edward T. MeHugh....................... year term :


REPORT OF THE
Playground Commissioners
To the Honorable, the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen
of the City of Holvoke, Massachusetts:—
Gentlemen :—We have the honor to submit to vou our
second annual report, as Board of Playground Commissioners. With this report we have closed another successful
year of playground activities. The ‘beginnings that Holyoke |
has made in playground work have received such favorable
comment that our reputation has extended beyond the preeincts of our own city. Surrounding communities have become interested in our progress and are looking to us as an
example to follow. At home ‘the interest of our own people
is constantly increasing, and demands are made upon us for
the opening of new grounds in other districts.
Our work this vear has been conducted upon the Hampden Street, Maple Street, West Street, and Elm Street School
playgrounds, as last year. In addition to these new ground
Was opened npon rented parcel of land adjoining the Relief Engine house on Main street and called the Main Street
ground. Summer activities were conducted at the William
Whiting school; called by us the Chestnut Street ground.
Five skating rinks were continued throughout the winter season. These were made upon the Hampden Street,
West Street, Maple Street, and Main Street grounds. By
the courtesy of Mr. S. O. Hoyt of the Highland Park Associates, who donated the ground and prepared the surface and .
embankments free of charge. another rink was opened and
conducted under our charge at Highland Park for the Highland district. .

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS

The playground which was conducted last year at Riverside Park was abandoned this year upon the opening of the
Main Street ground. The Main Street ground is located
nearer the heart of the congested district and it has drawn
an entirely new and larger: attendance than that which at- ,
tended at the Riverside Park ground.

While the Main Street ground meets every need of the
present for this section of the city it is on rented property
and notification may be received at any time for us to vacate the premises.

Within this most congested district of the city there are ,
five large schools with no open areas for recreation surrounding them and very little chance for obtaining land. We
would, therefore, again call your attention to the imperative
need of the city’s acquiring tract of land of ample size in
South Holyoke to be set aside permanently for recreation
purposes. .

In eonducting our summer activities at the William }
Whiting School there was an average daily attendance of ,
over two hundred and fifty. The open area for playground
purposes  inadequate and good deal of consideration
should be given to the need of acquiring tract of land adjoining if it is possible, as it was demonstrated that the
Hampden Street ground did not draw from this district. :
school building with bathing facilities such as may be found
at the Wilham Whiting School, with its attendant nurses,  S
of such an immense value to Community that its use should .
be encouraged the year round in conneetion with the playground work.

Perhaps the most marked development of the year has
been the growth of the use of the playgrounds by large boys
and adults. From playgrounds for children they have grown
to be playgrounds for all the public. On Thanksgiving day |
more than ten thousand people watched football games in the
several playgrounds, and the Maple Street playground was ,
used for big soccer game as late as December  th.

 

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  

Last year our appropriation amounted to  and
it did not include the winter activities. This year our request was for an appropriation of  which was to
include the whole year round activities. This appropriation
was granted in full, we being the only department in the
city that was so fortunate as to obtain our full appropriation. .

Of the three large playgrounds, that of Hampden Street
has received the most development this year. The size of
the ground is such that with the installing of the wading
pool change of location in the baseball field and apparatus
was found necessary.

The wading pool was completed and opened July  th,
and proved to be great attraction. With the extreme
drouth it was found necessary after month’s use to draw
off the water from this as well as all other of our wading
pools for the balance of the summer. Upon this ground
there has been erected concrete shelter house with sanitaries and other conveniences ample to meet the requirements
of the grounds for years to come. |

The development work upon the West Street ground has
been but small item. Repairs were made to the wading
pool, curbing put in and more gravel was added to its bed.
Several new pieces of apparatus were added.

The basement of the school building meets all the needs .
of shelter house and of sanitaries. In the fall the apparatus on the wading pvol terrace is removed and its space
flooded to increase the size of the skating rink which is
formed over the wading pool.

The Maple Street ground has proved to be the most popular ground for sports, and because of this demand only the
borders of one side of the ground have been used for apparatus, ete., leaving the balance of the ground in one large
plot. It is wpon this ground that all the field-meets and festival and championship contests are held.

On the opposite side of Maple street is large plot of

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
ground which through the courtesy of the Holyoke Water
Power Company we have made into skating rink.

The Main Street ground is rented plot of land which
was first turned to use as skating rink. During the summer apparatus was installed and field left for play, the plot
being too small to allow for baseball. All games and practice for this ground were played at the Riverside Park.

At the William Whiting School was located our Chestnut Street ground. At the request of the School Committee
and with their co-operation very successful play center was
established there during July and August. At this building. ‘a school of ‘twelve rooms, there is probably the smallest
plot of land su ounding it of any school ‘building in the
eity. This building, modern in every respect,  exceptionally well equipped. especially in ‘bathing facilities. Through
the courtesy of the school board two nurses were furnished
us to look after the bathing of the children. During the
open session of the grounds, children were constantly standing in line awaiting their turn. At times as many as one
hundred seventy-five took baths during an afternoon.

The playground activities upon this ground were greatly
handicapped for lack of space. With an adequate area of
open space acquired around or adjoining this building, it
would prove to be one of the most successful playgrounds in

' the city. In spite of the conditions there was great attraction in the ring games, folk danees and industrial work and
the attendance increased by leaps and bounds from twentysix to an average of two hundred fifty which
was maintained throughout the season.

The ‘boys from years of age amd over, as well as the
older girls. were conspicuous by their absence throughout
the season. With the no open areas or the play apparatus
there was nothing to draw these older children to the ground
and hold them.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
SKATING RINKS.

During this last year there were five skating rinks established by this Board, which proved to be one of the most
popular features of the playground work of the whole vear.
There was large attendance throughout the day and evening. In no other portion of the year did the attendance
reach the number that it did during the skating season. With
the opening of the coming season at least one more rink will
be opened. This will be at the Highland School.

SHELTERS AND FENCING.

There is great need of shelter with accompanying
sanitaries for the Maple Street ground. When this building
is erected provision should be made for band stand in
connection with it.

CARE AND MAINTENANOE.

The care and maintenance of the grounds are under the
direct supervision of the Superintendent of Publie Buildings,
a department of the Board of Public Works. Through him
the employment of all labor and direction of all work for
the up-keep and development of the grounds is done.

The facilities which he has at hand have enabled us to
make all our apparatus installed this year. This experiment
proved to ‘be great financial saving.

Owing to the dry season and the nature of the soil comPosing the surface of our playgrounds, which are bare of :
Vegetation, It was necessary that the dust be laid and each
ground was given coat of light tennis court oil which
proved to be very good and durable dust layer.

A caretaker was provided for each of the grounds durIng the summer activities. No permanent help is employed
the vear round.

| REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
| ACTIVITIES.

Our summer period of supervised play opened July  rd
for session of eight weeks, five days week, from to

| in the afternoons. The appropriations provided for the
| opening of four grounds but it was decided after the first
week of the season to open fifth ground at the Wilham
| Whiting School. Near the close of the season, on account
of lack of funds, it was decided to close all the grounds
throughout the eity one week earlier than we had hoped to.
! At the closing of the season we had given on five grounds
: the pleasures of seven weeks’ session rather than continuing
on with the four grounds period of eight weeks’ session
as .was originally intended.
, As it was found that so many children in the districts
. where our grounds are located were needed to assist in the
! work at home, it was considered advisable to confine our
periods to one session day.

Saturday afternoons the grounds were reserved for the
| employed ‘boys’ leagues for ball games. The average attend, ance at the sessions on the grounds of boys vears of age

and over has been found to be so small that it has been hard
to maintain baseball team upon most of the grounds to play
the playground league games during the week.

The attendance upon all the grounds averaged  
children per day and during the seven weeks’ session of
activities we had total attendance of children. The
cost. of training and teaching for this period for this great
number of children was .

OUR INSTRUCTORS.

Early in the spring notices were given through the daily
papers of applications for positions upon the playgrounds
for the summer activities. Application blanks were issued
to all who applied. Among the positions were four for
young men, Only one application was received for the four

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
vacancies to be filled, up to week or two of the opening of
the summer activities. preference was given all workers |
who had received training and experience upon our grounds
last vear.
TRAINING CLASS AND CONFERENCES. .

The results of our training class work last year proved
to be such success that it was decided to continue the work
this year. One morning each week there was session of
the class held for all volunteer workers and such teachers
as desired to attend. conference was held with the workers of the separate playgrounds in rotation, at least one conference ‘being held some morning each week. At some of
the conferenecs members of the Commission were in attendance to render such assistance as their observations might
suggest that would ‘be helpful in making the work upon the
grounds more efftcient. On the other mornings during the
week the supervisor would be at the office to give such information or assistance to the teachers as they might require to assist them in their work.

This method proved to be very popular with the teachers and there was hardly morning but what additional instruction was given, so interested were they all in the work.

The results of the instruction given in these morning
sessions and the practical ‘training received on the grounds
was such that we are assured of corps of assistants who
are well qualified to continue the work another vear at the
same high standard that we have required during the past
year.

HEALTH.

The health conditions upon our playgrounds this year
Were marked improvement upon that of last year. Through
the co-operation of the Board of Health and the School Board
&@ more eritical and thorough medical inspection has been

|
|

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS

made in the schools. The opening of the school baths and
the work accomplished upon the playgrounds last year have
all had their influence. At the suggestion of the Board of
Health, Dr. Miner was delegated to make an inspection of
the health conditions upon the playgrounds this year, visiting each ground at least twice each week. Such conditions as
were found that needed attention were prescribed for, medieine furnished, and treated.

USE OF GROUNDS.

During the year the young people have enjoyed themselves to the uttermost on the playgrounds. There is no
time except in the excessive heat of the summer day and the
bitter cold of the winter when the grounds are not in use.
At their games, in the sand courts, on the apparatus, playing
baseball and football, in the wading pool or on the skating
rink, the children can always find something to amuse themselves.

There have been several festivals and school class meets
on our grounds.

All ballgrounds are reserved each Saturday afternoon
and holidays for the use of the employed young men’s league
games, each afternoon being divided into two periods. All
requests for the use of the grounds are granted by the issue
of permits. It has been impossible to supply the demand
for permits for the Saturday afternoon games. One hundred sixty-six permits were issued for baseball and thirty
permits for football on the three grounds for Saturday afternoons during the past vear.

No permits are issued for Sunday baseball though the
game is allowed in the afternoons, and they seem to draw
young people from the streets in large numbers. At the
close contested games of the mill teams of the employed
young men's league an attendance of people may have
been found on the grounds.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
SOCIAL CENTER WORK.

Your Commission having been greatly impressed with
the needs of wholesome evening recreation and amusement
for the employed young folks of the congested districts of
the city, have appointed committee on Social Center work
to investigate the needs and prod to put the work in
operation.

This committee has had conferences with the School
Board and has received their approval of the project as well
as the endorsement of the Board of Public Works to open
one center at the Morgan School building. Preparations for
the work are being made and it is hoped to be able to start
this center soon after the opening of the new year.

OUR THANKS.

We desire to express our gratitude, first of all, to the
Mayor, the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Public Works,
the Sehool Committee, the Board of Ilealth and the Police
and Fire Departments, for their fine spirit of co-operation
and the valuable assistance which they have given, that has
made the whole work possible and the suecess which it has .
been.

Again, we would thank the Public Library Association
for the use of their hall as meeting place, and for the eontinned use of their basement for the playground workers
during the summer. ;

Again, we are equally grateful to Mrs. H. W. Atherton
and the Misses Curran for gifts of ribbons, flowers and braid
used in the trimming of dolls’ hats; to the Holyoke Water
Power Company for the free use of land opposite the Maple
Street playground for skating purposes; to the Firemen of
the Relief Engine House and to the Paragon Athletie Club
for the courtesies extended to our teachers and the children
on the grounds, and during the shower of July  th,  .

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
To the local press, the Transcript and the Telegram, our
most loyal supporters, we extend our heartiest thanks.
WILLIAM J. HOWES,
FRANCES ALLEN,
FRANK B. TOWNE,
ARCHIBALD A. BROOKS,
NATHAN P. AVERY,
MINNIE R. DWIGHT,
| MARY E. HUSSEY,
Playground Commission.

i
REPORT OF |
Office of Fire Commissioners,
) Holvoke, Mass., December |
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen: —
Gentlemen :—We respectfully submit you the report of
the Fire Department for the year ending December :
The Board met January and organized by the
election of James H. O’Connell as chairman, and George J.
Prew as vice-chairman, and John Hildreth as secretary.
There have been fires and alarms during the past
year, making an average of more than one fire for each day
in the year, and this is alarms more than last year, with
a loss of  on the buildings, and loss of 
on the contents, making total loss of or 
less than last vear’s remarkably low record.
No words of ‘ours are needed to emphasize this remarkable record of successful fire fighting, but we feel that we
owe it to the Chief and the officers and men under his command to commend them for the skill with which thev have
done their work. Often their work has been performed under exdingly dangerous conditions, and, we are glad to
report, without any permanent injury to any member of the
Department. Our citizens have many times during the year
manifested their appreciation of the services of the Department by sending cheek to be used by the Firemen’s Relief
Fund.
Our report shows that the total value of the property
endangered by fire was nearly ten millions of dollars, and
that the insurance upon the same was over four and one-half
millions of dollans; that the insurance paid on our fire losses

)
|
  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
| was or within  of the total losses by fire
| for the year, so that the average loss on each fire and alarm
was only .

This record justifies the city in its liberal treatment of
this branch of its service, and we believe that it is wise
policy to keep this Department fully equipped with the best

| and latest apparatus, and we thank your honorable Mayor
| and City Council for the extra appropriation of  to
enable ws to purchase two aerial trucks. This will greatly
strengthen our Department; we have felt for long time
! that the great increase in ‘the number of high tenement
| blocks that have been erected demanded more and better
 ladder trucks than we now have, to enable the inmates of
| these crowded tenements to get out in ease of fire. The fire
| escapes of many of them are of wood, and in case fire got
a good start would be wseless.
! We regret to say that four persons have lost their lives
| from fire this past year, ‘as follows: Vietor Gorbloski, Miss
Mary Marshall, Conrad Fournier and Carl Philips.
| The careless use of matches has been responsible for  
fires, and fires are reported as being set by boys.

It would seem that there was good chance for all who

, love our city to do some good home mi-sion work in teaching
the boys to conserve the property of our city, instead of destroving it. It seems pitiable that the beautiful woods that
surround our city should beso often set on fire by bows who
really ought to be more interested to preserve them than any
one else. We have had many fires of this character this
past vear, and some of them have been very dangerous.

Charles H. Knapp, who has for so many years been
connected with the Department, has been placed on the pension list on account of old age.

We draw especial attention to our recommendations
that as far as possible the city provide the men with separate sleeping rooms; the health and comfort of the men
demens them,

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Your Commissioners have watched with great care the
automobiles that have been in use in the Department now |
for nearly two years, and we are satisfied that the use of
automobiles in the Fire Department is no longer an experiment, and we trust that the time will soon come when horses
ean be practically dispensed with. The speed with which
we get to fire enables us to attack the fire in its beginning
and so prevent it becoming serious matter. The experience of many years has demonstrated that the only way to
successfully fight fire is to get there before the fire has had
an opportunity of assuming large proportions, and we hope
in this connection that our citizens will co-operate with us
in giving ws the right of way as soon as the alarm rings.
The city railway company have very generally adopted the
rule of stopping their cars until the alarm has ceased ringing,
so as not to interfere with the progress of the apparatus in
going to the fire. Their consideration in this matter is
greatly appreciated by us.

We thank your honorable Mayor and City Couneil for
your liberal appropriations and your Commissioners assure
you that they have exercised their best Judgment in the
economical expenditures of the same. In making the appropriations for coming years we ask your careful consideration of the following recommendations, and although some
of them have been made for many years, we trust that this
year’s appropriations will enable us to carry them into
effect.

First.—In accordance with the recommendations of the
National Board of Fire Underwriters and the International
Association of Fire Engineers, we believe that the time has
come to change the couplings of our hose from the eluteh
coupling to thread coupling with seven and one-half
threads to the inch. This would make the couplings in all
fire departments interchangeable. We have begun to make
this change already and hope to be able to complete it this
year.

|

‘ q
  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS

Second.—The changes at High Street Engine House
have made conditions on the apparatus floor much better,
but the location of the house is just as bad as ever, and the |
danger to pedestrians, on this, our most crowded thoroughfare, is something that ought to command your most serious
attention. It is not necessary that we should repeat the
various arguments for the change of the loeation of the
headquarters to more suitable site, and in making any
change we ought to erect modern and up-to-date engine
house that would last for many years.

Third.—We reeommend that House No. be sold and
a modern engine house, suitable for this district, be erected
somewhere near the center of the ward; and we suggest
that the vacant school house lot in this ward would make a
good location for new house. The present location, with
its splendid railroad facilities, could be sold for very considerable sum, so that with the school house lot new house
could ‘be erected with the expenditure of only small sum.
Sanitary conditions are far from good here.

Fourth.—We again reeommend that Engine No. be
refitted with new pumps and engine. It has been in use
twenty-seven yVears.

Fifth—We believe that arrangements should be made
to provide separate sleeping rooms for the men in the Department wherever possible.

Sixth—We recommend that Engine No. be overhauled
and equipped with new boiler. This is badly needed.

Seventh.—We also recommend the purchase of another
automobile despatch ‘and hose wagon, to be placed at such
a point in our city that long runs by horses may be avoided.

Eighth.—We also recommend the purehase of feet
of  -inch hose.

The following is statement of the receipts and expenditures in the Fire Department for the vear ending December :

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
RECEIPTS. .Balanee on hand from  .................  '
Total appropriations ...................--..  
Receipts from sale of horses, ete.............  
Special appropriation for two aerial trucks...  

Total receipts  ...    ee 

EXPENDITURES.

For salaries  ...  ee          
For stokers and engineers (call members)....  
Repairs, new apparatus, supplies and contingent ACCOUNT Lo...      
Amount appropriated for aerial trucks unexpended oo...        eens  
Balance on hand .........       

Total expenditures ................ --. 

SALARIES PAID IN TIE DEPARTMENT.

Chief Engineer, per vear............ .. 
First Assistant Engineer, per vear.............  
Second Assistant Engineer, per year...........  
Superintendent of Fire Alarm, per year........  
Lineman, Per Vear. cc.    cence  
Captains, per Vear......           
Lieutenants, per year... ........    ees  
Two permanent engineers of steamers, per year,

|  
Drivers and permanent men, per year..........  
Four call engineers of steamers, per Vear.......  
Six stokers of steamers, per vear.........  
Permanent men in the Department, first year...  
Permanent men in the Department, second vear.  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Permanent men in the Department, third year...  
Permanent men in the Department, fourth year..  
Permanent men in the Department, fifth year....  
Secretary of Commission, per year.............  
Veterinary, per year............         
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
James H. O’Connell, Chairman, Term expires January,  
George J. Prew, Term expires January,  
Philip M. Judd, Term expires January,  
John Hildreth, Secretary.
Thomas J. Shinkwin, Veterinarian.
PERMANENT FORCE.
  John T. Lynch, Chief Engineer.
  Patrick J. Reilly, Assistant Chief.
  Joseph M. LaFrance, Second Assistant Chief.
  Thomas F. Monoghan, Superintendent of Fire Alarm.
 Daniel J. Gorman, Captain.
  James J. Long, Captain.
  Daniel Hogan, Captain.
  Samuel D. Loomis, Captain.
  George F. Orrell, Captain.
 Daniel J. Brennan, Captain.
  Patrick J, Hurley, Captain.
  Daniel McLean, Captain.
 John P. Wynn, Captain.
 John F. Rohan, Captain.
 John Welch, Captain.
  Jeremiah Hallissevy, Lieutenant.
 John J. Casev, Lieutenant.
  Joseph M. Riley, Lieutenant.
 John J. Rvan, Lieutenant.
 ()) Michael J. Donoghue, Lieutenant.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS John J. Manning, Lieutenant.
  James J. Crowley, Lieutenant.
  Walter S. Watt, Lieutenant. ,
 William P. Gately, Engineer.
  Louis LaBreque, Engineer.
  Timothy Harrington, permanent man.
 James J. Sullivan, Lieutenant.
  Albert Tardy, permanent man.
  Austin F. Mulqueeney, permanent man.
  Daniel Moynahan, permanent man.
  Patriek J. Kennedy, permanent man. ,
  Daniel J. Lynch, permanent man.
 Frank S. Lynch, permanent man.
 Thomas Conway, permanent man.
  Charles F. W. Aurnhammer, permanent man.
  George A. Ellison, permanent man.
  Thomas Ash, permanent man.
  James Brady, permanent man.
  Wilham H. Strain, permanent man.
 James O’Grady, permanent man.
  John J. Moriarty, permanent man.
  Patrick T. Kennedy, permanent man.
  Patrick J. Rohan, permanent man.
  John J. Fenton, permanent man.
  James M. Gately, permanent man.
  John B. Moreau, permanent man.
  “Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man.
  August F. Greunert, permanent man.
  Edmund C. Buekley, permanent man.
A) Michael Bowler, permanent man.
ol Matthew F. Welch, permanent man.
d  Robert E. MeCarthy, permanent man.
  Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man.
dt William Brady, permanent man.
 Michael Riley, permanent man.
  Dennis Devine, permanent man.

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
d  Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man.
  William J. Millane, permanent man.
  Sifroy Perron, permanent man.
  Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man.
  Paul Bieber, permanent man.
. George Miles, permanent man.
  Michael Lacey, permanent man.
  Patrick Barrett, permanent man.
  Dennis J. Sheehan, permanent man.
  John J. Nugent, permanent man.
  George Hiekson, permanent man.
  Dominick A. Gorman, permanent man.
  Ernest L. Krug, permanent man.
 Thomas Sullivan, permanent man. )
  Edward Claney, permanent man.
  Thomas Fallon, permanent man.
 Roger Coffee, permanent man.
 Michael P. Mahoney, permanent man.
. Miehael Cray, permanent man.
  John T. MeCarthy, permanent man.
 John F. Lally, permanent man.
  James Dwyer, permanent man.
  John Castle, on the pension list.
  Charles H. Knapp, on the pension list.
FIRES AND ALARMS.

The number of fires and alarms the past vear was  ,
of which were bell alarms, were still alarms and
Where no alarin Was given.

There were four false alarms. The following is statement of the yaluation of the property endangered by fire,
and insurance on said property, with the amount of the
losses by fire and the amount paid by insuranee companies,
together with detailed statement of causes of fires, viz:—

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Buildings  ...           
Contents  ...  ... cc         
Total oo...     ee se) 
Insurance on buildings....................  
Insurance on contents...........    
Total oo...        
Damage to building’s.................  
Damage to contents...........    
Total ..  ... ce     
Insurance paid on buildings................ 
Insurance paid on contents..............  
Total ..  ...  ence   een   
Total damage  ...  ...      eens  
Total insurance paid..............    
. Total net loss of fires and alarms.... 
The average loss per fire above insurance Was 
The number of fires and alarms during each month in
the vear are as follows, viz:—

December, ...  ... e   
January,  ]...      
February,  ...  ...    ce   teenies  
March,  oc ene nee ees  
April, ... cc ce       
Mav,  o.oo ce eet eens 
June,  oo. cette eens  
July, WOLDcc   eens  
August,  ...  eens  
September,  ........          
October, ..  ...   ce        
November, ...         )
 

|

: {
yO
FJ
a
{
. REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
| The causes of the different fires and alarms are classi| fied as follows, viz:—
| Soot in chimney........         
| Defective chimney .............       
| Struck by lightning............ ...    
| Careless use of matches.........  eens  
Overheated furnace ..........  ...      ees ]
| Probably set by tramps. .......... ees  
Set by fireworks........    cc ees  
| Back draft in chimney.............  eens  
| Pan of meat on stove caught fire.............+---  
! Gasulene stove ......  ...         
! Explosion of gas stove.........  ...       
, Gasolene caught fire.........       
| Lamp tipped over.........  ...       
! Set Dy DOYS... Lecce   eens  
| Kerosene oil can tipped over.............  ]
: Roof set by fireworks...........  ... ce     ]
| Overheated chimney ..............   ?  
| Leaking gasolene oil tank...............    
: Lantern tipped over...........      nee ]
. Reflection of lantern in ‘barn mistaken for fire...- ]
| Automobile eaught fire.......  ...  ees ]
Sulphur eandle set fire.........  ...     ]
Back fire  ...  ... cc   ce      
| Back draft in blow pipe................ ete ]
Set by flatiron oo...  ...      ]
Electric flatiron  ...   ce   tee  
Fire in ash chute........  ...  eet  
Probably cigarette stub........   eet  
Escaping gas caught fire.....  ...     ]
Candle tipped over.........       Plumbers’s firepot .........  ...     r
Probably sparks from locomotive.........+++:+* .
Children playing with matches.......... “
False alarm ........  c.  ec     eet

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
|‘ Tinner’s firepot  ...         ees .
Hot ashes  ...           
Short cirenit electric wire......... ec 
Oil stove leaked ........  ...   eet   eens .
Thawing out water pipe.........        ’
Forest fire ..  ...     eens
Brooder took fire... ....  ...    eet tenes  
Gas explosion .....  ...   ete ;
Gas stove set clothes afire............    
Gas fixture set table afire.........  ... eens ;
Metal in cotton card. ...       
Fire from open fireplace........-. .-    seers  
Crossed electric WireS.....   teens  
Reflection from welding steel rails................  
Man smoking in bed...........       D
Set by man smoking...........-          
Sulphur candle set floor afire.............  
Gas jet set woodwork afire.......--..    
Gas jet set curtain afire...  ...      ]
Gas jet set clothes afire..........     
Set by swinging gas jet...........        
Coals from boiler set waste afire...............  
Hall lamp exploded.............    teens  
Sparks from ‘boiler. .........        
Reflection of stove used to dry plaster............  
Probably cigar stub dropped into awning........
Probably sparks jumped from stove............-.  
Overheated stovepipe .......---.e        
Overheated bearing ...........  see t   eens  
Probably spontaneous combustion..............  
Probably, mice and matches...........-  ees  
Hot ashes set piazza afire.../........      
Pan of grease on stove boiled over. .........  A)
Tar kettle boiled over.........   eens  
Burning grass set fence afire................  
Watehman’s lamp tipped over.............. 

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Waste paper set afire.......      
Gasolene stove leaked...........  ... cc ees  
Man cleaning clothes with gasolene..............  
| Burning leaves .........       eens ]
Kerosene lamp exploded............... 
Sparks from stack ........  ...       
Alcohol put on fire...  c. ce    
Head of match flew into curtains.................  
Total oo...  cc       ne aes  

FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

We again repeat the recommendation as we have for
many years that the wires of the fire alarm system be put
under ground in the thickly settled portions of the city. We
have to depend so much upon the proper working of this

branch of our service that an accident to it might result very
disastrously to the city. We are running great risk in
carrying so much upon the present apparatus. It has been
over-loaded for long time, and it is only by constant attention on the part of our Superintendent that the present ant)quated system is successfully worked.

The property of this department is as follows, viz:—

J pole Wagon... ...    ene 
I wire reel... .... cc   ees  )
Strong current protector board...............  
Storage battery  ...  cc ce   
Case and switchboard...........   miles of wire all insulated............... tower bells and strikers.............  mechanical Gongs... ... ees  Gamewell signal boxes............   telegraph poles......  ...    

REPORT OF FIRE CUMMISSIONERS  

  private Gamewell boxes................ ..
  eighteen-inch gongs and indicators.......... indicators without gongs.............   dead man... ...   ees  

  private boxes... ....     
City signal star boxes.....  ... ce       six-circuit repeater...  ...      stop clocks...  ...  ...    
L horse  ...   ec ce        
L Wagon   eens  
Ll sleigh ...  ... cc   eens 
L buggy oo.   teens harnesses ....   eens pike poles, cant hook, crow bar, shovels.. miles of wire on hand................. back boards. ......  ...eens key boxes...       teens  
lset of bits... ce   ees  
l set of screw drivers...........       bit braces... .. ec     eens  d
  wood chisels.......  ...  ees  
Il hack saw frame............ cc   ees  d

  jack switches...  ...      
  battery plates.....  ...        JAS oe ce     nee eas 
Set of blocks and falls.................. 
$ 

HAY AND FEED.

This branch of the Fire Department has been very
costly. The high price of everything this vear has made
the maintenance of the horses exdingly costly.

HOUSES.

The houses in the Department are in very good condition. We have to thank the Board of Public Works for their

\ |

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
excellent care of the houses this last year. The necessity
for new headquarters continues as great as ever. There are
some changes in the arrangement of the houses which could
| be made at not very great expense and could materially
. benefit the condition of the men in the Department. These
are touched upon in the recommendations of your committee.

HOSE.
: We should purchase at least feet of hose this year.
. There is much hose in the Department that has grown too
| old to be safely used much longer, and we trust this year we
ean equip the hose with serew couplings throughout. It is
absolutely necessary to keep this braneh of our Department
at high state of efficiency.
The following is the amount of hose on hand :—
|
Good Fair Poor Total
House No.  ...... nee  
House No,  ......  
| House No.  ...... lees Laas  
House No.  ......  
| House No.  ...... Lee tae  
House No.  ......  
HORSES.

We have now thirty-four horses in the Department, and
the introduction of automobiles means the reduetion of the
number of horses used in the Department. ‘We should be
very glad indeed when the time comes to replace the horses
entirely with motor-driven apparatus.  This is beeoming
more and more practicable every year, and many cities use
now almost entirely motor-driven apparatus.

|
|

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
LOCATION AND ASSESSORS’ VALUATION OF THE
FIRE ENGINE HOUSES.
House No.  High street,
value of house and land.............. 
House No.  Main street,
value of house and land..............  
House No.  West Hampden street,
value of house and land..............  
House No.  Canal street,
value of house and Jand..............  
House No.  South street,
value of house and land.............. )
House No.  Chestnut street,
value of house and land..............  
$ 
Hook and Ladder Company No.  .
Joseph M. LaFrance, second assistant engineer and eaptain,
  [ligh street,  .
John J. Casey, lieutenant, High street, May .
William Brady, permanent. man, May .
Patrick J. Rohan, permanent man, High street, May  ,
 ,
Jahn J. Moriarty, permanent man, High street, September .
Michael J. Riley, permanent man, High street, July  ,
 .
Roger Coffee, lineman, Iligh street, February .
Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man, High street, Jannary,  ,
Michael J. Lacey, permanent man, Tigh street, April  ,
 ,
Dominick A. Gorman, permanent man, High street. June
  .
|

  REPORT UF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
John F. Lally, permanent man, High street, October  ,
 .
John T. MeCarthy, permanent man, High street, March
  .
Hook and Ladder Company No.  .
John F. Rohan, captain, Hampden street, January  ,
 .
Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man, Hampden street,
January,  .
George A. Ellison, permanent man, Hampden street, February,  .
Timothy Harrington, permanent man, Hampden street,
January .
Combination Chemical and Hook and Ladder Company No.  .
) Daniel J. Gorman, captain, South street, February  .
 ,
James J. Crowley, lieutenant, South street, January  ,
 .
Charles F. W. Aurnhammer, driver, South street, September s.
Steamer and Despatch Company No.  .
John Welch, captain, Eigh street, August,  .
Joseph M. Riley, lieutenant, High street, September  ,
 .
John J. Fenton, permanent man, High street, January,
 .
Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man, High street, April
  .
Sifroy Perron, permanent man, Iligh street, April .
Frank S. Lynch. permanent man, High street, May  ,
 .

REP@RT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Paul Bieber, permanent man, High street, April .
John J. Nugent, permanent man, High street, June  ,
 .
Ernest L. Krug, permanent man, High street, December
  .
Steamer Company No.  .
Daniel MeLean, captain, Main street, August .
James J. Sullivan, lieutenant, Main street, March  ,
 .
John B. Moreau, permanent man, Main street, January
  |
Robert E. McCarthy, driver of steamer, Main street,
April .
 Dennis Devine, permanent man, Main street, April  ,
 .
Michael P. Mahoney, spare driver, Main street, January
  |
Matthew F. Welch, permanent man, Main street, October
  .
Steamer Company No.  .
Samuel D. Loomis, captain, Hampden street, July .
Albert Tardy, driver hose, Hampden street, April,  .
Daniel Moynahan, driver, Hampden street, April  ,
 ,
William P. Gately. engineer, Hampden street. July,  .
James F. Dwyer, permanent man, Hampden street, April
  .
James O’Grady, permanent man, Hampden street, April
 ,
Steamer Company No.  .
Patrick J. Hurley. captain, Canal street, August,  .
John J. Ryan, lieutenant, Canal street,  .

+  
, REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIOMERS
| Thomas Conway, driver hose, Canal street, January,  .
: James Brady, permanent man, Canal street, January  ,
 .
| Dennis J. Sheehan, driver, Canal street, April .
| Michael Bowler, permanent man, Canal street, January,
.  .
| Thomas Sullivan, permanent man, Canal street, December
  .
| Michael F. Kenney, permanent man, Canal street, January
| .
| Steamer Company No.  .
! Daniel Hogan, captain, South street, February .
| Jeremiah J. Hallissey, lieutenant, South street, July  ,
|  .
P. T. Kennedy, permanent man, South street, August  ,
 .
August F. Greunert, permanent man, South street. Janary,  .
| P. J. Kennedy, driver, South street, January .
| Louis LaBreque, engineer, South street, November  ],
 .
| Thomas Ash. driver hose, South street, Mareh,  .
Steamer Company No.  .
Daniel J. Brennan, captain, Main street, April .
Michael J. Donoghue, heutenant, Main street, January,
W ,
Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man, Main street, June,
 ,
George Miles, permanent man, Main street, April .
Edward M. Claney, driver, Main street, February  ,
J ,
Hose Company No.  .
James J. Long, eaptain, Chestnut street. August,  .

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
John J. Manning, heutenant, Chestnut street, September
  .
Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man. Chestnut street,
April .
Daniel J. Lynch. driver hose. Chestnut street,  —
George Hickson, permanent man, Chestnut street. June |
  |
Michael Cray, permanent man, Chestnut street. January
  {
 I
Chemical Engine No.  .
john P. Wynn, captain, High street, January .
Walter S. Watt. Heutenant, [igh street, February  ,
 .
James M. Gately. permanent man, Tigh street, June  ,
 ,
Wilham J. Millane, permanent man, High street. April
  .
Thomas F. Fallon. [lieh street. February ,
Chemical Engine Company No.  .
Georee F. Orrell, captain, Tlampden street, February,
IS.
Austin FL Mulqueeney. driver, Hampden street, May  ,
 .
William Tf. Strain, permanent man, Hampden street, November .
CALL ENGINEERS AND STOKERS.
Steamer No.  .
Frank A. Shelley, engineer, mechanic, Newton place. April
 .
White P. Bidwell. stoker. paper finisher. Newton place,
April,  :
Steamer No.  .
Albert Eger, engineer, April .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Edward Ahern, stoker, moulder, Main street, August  ,
 .
Steamer No.  .
L. F. Thorpe, stoker, carpenter, Waldo street, March,
 .
Steamer No.  .
John F. Mahoney, engineer, Center street,  .
Patrick Ginley, stoker, August .
Steamer No.  .
James J. Murray, stoker, Auugst .
Steamer No.  .
James O’Connor, engineer, mechanic, West street, July

  s.

Patrick J. Cronin, stoker, mechanic, High street.
CONCLUSION.

Your Commissioners in conclusion again desire to thank
the honorable Mayor, the City Council, the Board of Publie
Works, the Board of Water Commissioners, the Electric

, Light Department, the City Clerk, the City Treasurer, City
Auditor, City Marshal and police officers, and all other publie officers, for the kindness and courtesy shown us during
the past vear. And we desire again to thank the Street
Railway Company on behalf of the members of the Fire Department for the continued privilege of allowing them
ride on the company’s ears when on duty, and for their
general co-operation with the Fire Department in every way.

Respectfully yours,
JAMES H. OCONNELL, Chairman,
GEORGE J. PREW,
PITILIP M. JUDD,
Holvoke Fire Commissioners.

Department of Police
OFFICE OF THE CITY MARSHAL.
Holyoke, Mass., December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
the City of Holyoke:—

Gentlemen :—In compliance with the city ordinance, I
have the honor herewith to submit for your consideration
the annual report of the Department for the year ending
November .

ORGANIZATION.

The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Mar- |
shal, Captain, Lieutenant, five Sargeants, three Inspectors
and fifty Patrolmen, two of whom are detailed in the office.

ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  .

Name Rank Date of Appointment
Thomas J. Lynch, Marshal, May 
Patrick Herbert, Asst. Marshal, January 
Timothy Haley, Captain, February 
Patrick E. Sullivan, Lieutenant, January 
Dennis Mack, Sergeant, May 
William E. Blackmer, .* January 
George L. Dickinson, February 
John J. Moriarty, ** February 
Patrick F. Ryan, ee, January 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Naine Rank Date of Appointment
Peter A. Cullen, Inspector, February 
Frank R. Metealt, ce February 
Maurice M. O’Connor, June 
John A. Powers, House Duty, January 
Cornelius Curran, February 
Michael Shine,  Patrolman. April 
Richard Peters, January 
Thomas .Riley, (Ow January  |
Michael J. Lynch, January 
Francis .Hastings, January 
John A. Geran, January 
James B. Griffin, February  :
Jeremiah J. Lennehan, vo February |
John A. Vachon, June  so 
James T. Donoghue, June 
Rock H. Lalonde, Jame  .
Thomas Bresnahan, .. June 
Maurice H. Shine, August  
Henry M. Fisher, ** August Daniel C. McCarthy, September 
Richard EK. Loweock,Mareh 
William J. Carey, February !
Michael Driscoll, February  
Peter J. Manning, February 
Patrick J. Kennedy, Febrnuary 
Walter BE. Murray, “s May 
Edward F. Gilday, Jrly 
James Malcolm, July 
. Patrick J. Driscoll, July 
Thomas J. Rourke, os July 
Patrick J. Gaughan, ve July  |
Andre J. Senay, Marca  
Albert Mew, June  |
John J. O* Donnell, ‘* June 
Maxwell MeDowell, August 


REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Name Rank Date of Appointment
James T. Welch, January 
John J. Grady. February 
Henry Sussenguth, October 
Michael J. Clifford,  February 
Michael P. Conroy,  February 
Medrie Beolin, *f February 
John E. Goss. March 
George W. O’Connell, April 
Michael J. Prendergast. .* October 
John J. Austin. May 
Michael J. Pogarty, May 
Timothy J. Mannix, ‘* February  |
George E. Leary, June 
Fredrick W. Kuenzel, ‘* June 
William A. Morgan, ‘* June 
Timothy J. Murphy. ‘e September 
Michael J. Walsh,  December 
Joseph A. Landry, nf December 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan. Matron. April 
William C. Bessett. Reserve Officer, January 
James J. Fitzgerald, January 
Patrick J. Falvey. .* January 
Thomas E. Powers, January 
Michael J. Herlihey, June 
James J. Tisdale, ** December 
John T. Quinn, ** December 
Albert M. Albin, ** December 
Garrett Bowler, December 
. Arthur Standen, December  |
Joseph P. Kane,  October !
George Hickson, ‘* October  |
Patrick J. Sullivan, October 
Joseph A. Champagne, .* October 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
Total number of arrests............ ..ccec   
Males ..... cc      vecgse  
Females .....           
ARRESTS WERE MADE FOR THE FOLLOWING
OFFENSES.
Assault and battery .........  cec  
Assault with dangerous weapon..........e    
Assault on an officer... ...  ...           
Abandonment .........         ]
Attempt to commit larceny............c    
Breaking and entering.............c      
Breach of the peace... ...  ... cc   eens  
Bastardy oo...            
Being present at gaming on the Lord’s day........  
Cruelty to animals. .......      ce     
Carrying dangerous weapon............ e®  
Drunkenness .......    ce  cces  
Delinquent Child ...  ...   ce cc     eens  
Evading ear fare  ... cc   ec     
Formication oo... cc   ce    een en   
Forgery occ    ce      neces J
Gaming on the Lord’s day... ...... ec   oY
Interfering with fire alarm boxes........... 
Indecent eXposure  ... cc      eens  
Keeping disorderly house............ ers  
Keeping gaming house............ .ee eet ]
Larceny   ec e    ee     
Lareeny from ‘building. ...........  I
Manslaughter co... cc  ee    ete  
Malicious mischief .......  cc         
.  
NON-SUPPOPt Lecce      ee eben    
Neglected child  ecce es   
Receiving stolen goods. ...  ...   tee  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Stubbornness  ...        eas  
Sureties of the peace.......    tenes  
Setting brush fire without permission............  
TTUANCY oo.   ec ce ce  cent   s  
Using false scales.......  cc     eens  
Unlawfully taking team............     
Violation city ordinance...........ecce e   
Violation park ordinance. ..........     ees  
Violation traffic ordinance.............c  D
Violation labor law.........     eccuees  
Violation automobile law...........cceccec  
Violation butter law..........ceccecceces  
Violation milk law ........    cecv  
Violation oleomargerine law...........   
Vagrancy ....... ce      ec   s  
Walking on railroad tracks.............e cc   

 
DISPOSITION OF CASES,  .
Appealed oi...        cen   :
Bound over to the Superior court.............. --  
Committed to the House of Correction.............  
Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment of fine .......              
Committed to the State Farm at Bridgewater...... |
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory......  
Committed to the Lyman School for Boys..........  
Committed to the Industrial School for Boys at. ShirCommitted to the Hampden County Truant School.  
Committed to the State Board of Charity..........  
Committed to the Women’s Reformatory at Sherborn  
Discharged .......       as 
Dismissed ..  ... cc       s  
Fined and paid........cce   ence  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Noll prossed .....      ce en  
Probated and discharged. .........    
Placed on file...  cc cc    
Released          een   enes  

AGES.
Under vears...  ...    cc      
Vv and under  ...  ...    and under  ......  ... ce    ees and under  .......     ees  
$  and under  .....      een  
oo and under  ..... ...     eaes  
Go and under  ...  cc    eens  
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED.

AMOCPICA coc     cc ce cc cc ence ne  nes  
AUSEIA Lo. cc   ce      taneens  
Belgium ...  ...   cence   enaes  
Chind  ...       cence   tee enees  
Canada  ...       ce cc ec eett   
Denmark ......    nee eet en ees  
England oo...      ene teens  
Frame  ... cc    neeet ne eens  
Germany co.cc    cence   een tenes  
OE cc  
Treland oo...     e    teens  
Italy co.cc      eetaes ll
NOPWAY coc        ee teenies  
New Foundland .......  ... cc    ees I
Portugal co...           teens  
Poland oc...   cc  ec ce       tenance  l
Prinve Edward’s Island...        .  )

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF PULICE  
a) Cc  
Scotland coc                
Sweden co.cc        teeneenees  
Turkey oo...     ce  cectete  

 

NUMBER OF PERSONS ARRESTED EACH MONTH.

December, oo...   ce ence   
January,   ce       
February,  oo... ce ec   cence eae  
March,  ...      teen    
F CD  
Mav, TODD coc               
June, TODD oo. cc cc ce      
Tuy, DODD coc ee   enna  
Aust, [DT] oo. ec ce   teens  
September, LOT] oo... cc         
Ovtober, TDLD  ...   cc ences  
Noventber, TOT] oo...   eens  

 
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY THE

POLICE.

Number of children found and restored to parents.  
Number of meals furnished prisoners.............  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured. ...  
Number of dead bodies found. ......   
Number of fire alarms given. ....  ...     ees  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms.:.....  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported. ....  
Nuinber of siek and injured persons assisted. ...... Si
Number of stray teams taken up............  
Number of street lamps reported not lwhted......  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

Number of arrests for other cities.................  
Number of warrants for liquor served............  
Number of ‘bicycles reported stolen and not rovNumber of bicycles stolen and recovered..........  
Number of ‘sbieveles found and returned to owners...  
Number of safe doors found open.............  
Number of dogs shot. ....  ...    cc        
Number of defective sidewalks reported..........  
Nuniber of defective eatch-basins reported........  
Number of insane persons cared for..............  
Number of notices served .....       
Value of stolen property......         
Value of property recovered .........   
Amount of money reported stolen................. 
Amount of money recovered. ........  ees FB)
REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT FOR THE

YEAR  .

Number of women in charge..........     
Number of women arrested. ........ ...   eens  
OFFENSES WITIL WHICH THEY WERE CHARGED.
Abandonment .......     ee   ence ]
Assault and battery...  ee   teens  
Drunkenness oo...           ees 
Fornication oo.ee       
Larceny coc   ce   ence   nees  
Neglected Child oc...eeeeeeeens  
VaeraneOy voce        teens  

} 

. )
Detained co.  cc      eens Iz
Insane coc cc   ce      te    

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Appealed oo...     cc ene  eaes  
Committed to the House of Correction.............  
Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment of fine. ........         ees  
Committed to the Women’s Reformatory at Sherborn  
Committed to the State Board of Charity..........  
Discharged  ...  cc        teen ees  
Fined and paid........       tees  
Probated and discharged. ........  ...    
Placed on file... ..  ...      teens  
Released oo...      ete   nes  

 

It affords me great satisfaction to note marked decrease in the number of women arrested during the past
year. Intemperance always claims the largest number of
vietims, and am sorry to say that many of them are young
women,

I thank the Marshal, superior officers and the members
of the force for their courteous treatment and willing cooperation in my work.

KATE MOYNIHAN,
Matron.
THE FOLLOWING IS THE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL
SYSTEM.
Duty calls from patrolmen................. --  
Telephone calls ........       teen ence  
Wagon calls, davs........         
Wagon ealls, nights.......  ec      
Miles run oo.   ce      ees  

  REPORT UF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
ee
Iu Memoriam
| MATTHEW MeCLELLAN,
, APPOINTED AUGUST .
DIED DECEMBER .
ee

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.
Patrolman Frank M. Priest was placed on the pension
roll December Appointed January .
Patrolman Matthew McClellan died December .
Appointed August. .
APPOINTED.
Michael J. Walsh, appointed patrolman December  ,
 .
Joseph A, Landry, appointed patrolman D mber  ,
 ,
FINANCIAL REPORT.
Total appropriation ...........    ce es 
Receipts from Police Court............ 
Receipts from Hampden County..............  
Receipts from all other sources......... 
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Payrolllec ec   eet    ees 
Miscellaneous expenses ...... ...  ees  
Balance unexpended ............ ecc   
$ 
In compliance with provision of the charter, respectfully recommend an appropriation for the ensuing year of
$ :
ITEMS.
Appropriation  
Estimated Precepts .....          +. 
$ 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Pavroll co...     ee ce       es 
Miscellaneous expenses  ... cc      
$ 
POLICE STATION.

I wish to again call the attention of your honorable body
to the necessity of providing more adequate quarters for the
Police Department of your city. No doubt all of you are
aware that for number of vears past the quarters of the
Police Department have been condemned by the State
Board of Health as being unsanitary and inadequate for
the present needs of city the size of Holyoke.

The State inspectors inform me that the City of Holvoke
has one of the most unsanitary police quarters in the State
respecting both the health of the officers compelled to work
in the damp, unventilated quarters and the unfortunate per| sons who are under arrest and eonfined in the cells. There
is no proper place provided for persons who are under detention. Many of the officers when going on and off duty
are compelled to make their change of clothing from the
damp lockers which are crowded into the corridors, there
being no other place to put them.
’ POLICE SIGNAL SYSTEM.

Our signal system is antiquated and unreliable. The
police service is impaired and the officers at headquarters
are hampered and handicapped in not being able to get into
communication wtih the officers on the streets at all times.
An up-to-date police signal with its system of individual ealls
would add materially to the efficiency of the Department.

I think the time has come when we should provide better police protection for the outlying districts of Oakdale,
Springdale, Highlands and Elmwood and that rapidly growing section of Ward Six bounded by Cabot street, Maple

a
. REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
street and Elmwood park. That we may be able to provide
oicers for those districts would recommend that. provisluns be made for increasing the Department by six police
affivers.
CONCLUSION.

In conclusion, beg to express my appreciation of the
many courtesies extended by his honor the Mayor, the Judge
and Clerk of the Police Court. and the members of this Department during the year, and to thank them for the consilerate attention given to matters pertaining to this Department, and for the assistanee which they have rendered.

Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS J. LYNCH,
City Marshal.

To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen,

City of Holyoke, Mass. :—

Gentlemen :—The thirty-eighth report of the City Engineering Department for the vear ending Nov. ], is
hereby submitted.

RECEIPTS. ,
By appropriation oo...  ...     ce  ee) 
Balance from last year... ...  ...       mS)
EXPENDITURES.

Salaries of City Engineer and assistants........  copies of map of itV...  ...     
Atlas of GItV.   cc cc cc cc        
City directory... ..   eens  
Engineering periodicals ..........          
Electrie wiring, earfare, advertising, periodical

and supplies ..... cc           
Office supplies  ...       
Printing and binding ......  ...  ...    et  
Setoof Enevelopaedia for engineering library... .-  
Telephone service oo... cc    ee    
Team hire and earfare...... cc.  ees  (). 
Traveling expenses and postage contracted from

Dee.  to Feb. ...ee  
Balance unexpended oo...  ... e eens  

£ ,. 

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  

An unusual amount of work has been accomplished by
this department during the year in the general engineering
line for the different departments throughout the city, including the Board of Pubhie Works, the Water Department,
Gas and Electric Department and the Board of Assessors ;
also the inspection of buildings and electrie wiring.

The following work has been completed for the Board
of Publie Works: Preparation of plans and specifications
for the retaining wall on Railroad street and the paving of
Railroad street between Dwight and Appleton streets, plans
and specifications for the bridge to be erected over the seeond level canal on Cabot street, specifications for the paiting of several of the bridges, grading of Davis street  between Walnut and Elim streets distance of about feet,
and the grading of Dexter street.

Plans were also prepared for the widening of the street
at the corner of Maple and South, streets and for the proposed wooden stairs in the Elmwood Dingle.

TUBERCULOSIS TLOSPITAL,

The location selected for the Tuberculosis Tospital being
at vreater altitude than the highest of our reservoirs, it
Was not possible to furnish water by gravity pressure from
the city water supply. It was found necessary on that aecount to install pumping station Which insured the necessary pressure by pumping from the mains at an elevation
Which would give continuous service Whether Ashley Ponds,
Whiting Street or Iligh Service should happen to be the
source of supply.

A five horse-power ‘‘ Wagner’? motor operating a
‘Deane’? pump furnishes supply of sixty gallons per minute with pressure varying from thirty-five to fifty pounds
at the hospital.

’ The system is so arranged that the fire engines being
eonnected with hydrants outside the pumping station, can

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
pump directly into the four-inch supply to the hospital
where two other fire hydrants are placed.

The tests by the fire department made under the most
unfavorable conditions, using ordinary fire hose instead of
flexible suction hose, gave two  -inch streams with continuous nozzle pressure of about eighty pounds to the square
inch at the hospital as recorded on the nozzle gauges.

At one time the pressure was raised to pounds at
this point. These conditions are considered ample for efficient fire service.

RAILROAD STREET.

The embankment wall on Railroad street extends  
feet from Appleton street to the alley at the rear of the city
hall. It is built of conerete reinforced with steel rods, laid
horizontally on the fave and vertically at the back.

The depth of the base below the street is about feet,
and the parapet wall on top is feet inches above the sideWalk. Provision has been made for number of electric
lights to be placed at convenient intervals on this wall.

Pavement of block granite has been laid on cement
base from Dwight ‘to Appleton streets. Its initial evost  s
shahtly in excess, while the maintenance is much less than
for other high grade pavements.

Being convenient to our principal business thoroughfare,
much of the heavy travel will be diverted to Railroad street.
This pavement is durable. smooth and sanitary, and affords
a good foothold for horses. It can he used on grades as high
as sIX per cent and promises to give as good service as any
In the city.

BRIDGES.

The work of building the new bridge at South and Main
streets is nearing completion. The pier foundations and

abutments were built by Mr. P. J. Kennedy, Jr., of this city.

The iron is now being erected by the New York. New
Haven Hartford Railroad Company.

 
|
l
|
REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER :
Important and necessary repairs were made on the first
level canal bridge on Cabot street by the Holyoke Street
Railway Company, several stringers having been found in
poor eondition when examination was made by this department during the annual shutdown.
It is considered advisable to relieve the congested condition at the second level canal bridge on Cabot street. A
collision with the bridge trusses or car would be inevitable
in the event of three-horse hitch of the fire department
trving to pass ear on this bridge.
Plans were prepared for the construction. of new
bridge of which the estimated cost is about .
Several of the bridges have been painted and minor repairs made thereon.
SEWERS.
During the severe storm of July dth, when the rainfall
Was more than five inches in two hours, the sewers proved
Inadequate for such an unusual downpour. This does not
mean that our sewers In the main are not sufficiently large
for general use. The Front street sewer, however, has at
different times overflowed so as to flood the Cabot street underpass. Plans for remedying this condition are at present
under consideration.
A sewer connecting the domestic and storm water sewers on Essex street was built this vear to relieve the former
in the event of heavy rains.
On file in this ofliee are plans and profiles for all sewers
coustructed during  .
SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
In the early part of the vear much time was spent pre- }
paring data for use in combating the proposal to divert. all
sewage from the Connecticut River. Tlowever, it does not
appear that legislation will be necessary for this purpose for
some Years to eome.
A list of the sewers built during the vear is as follows:
|
|
|

: csc: csc: sc. cs:  wc: :
: a: a. ge zx 
&  zs zc  ef cs ez c
a    §
£  ae -“.  E* Bu Bs Sa Sets Fz £E a
 eg az eace  ef &
a rs ni ongd
ae Be, Sm, rai Saxs Ba,  Be cs ;
a  —
  ££  @&@ @&
a Fy  —" aed Lan
a
. DO: DE :
Cad Dt
CEs - :
Zea DS :
.  
| .
So rN) be] Pr] |
ads  Ss  i)
 gy ae )
— t
a " :
 :
h ok   |
.   @ie he  ra} P| .
\  ten tet be ea Le]
- nm SL je)  wi Co  |
 |
wi Bet  ,
On  bm  
' ae
  —-- ——- eS ee,
! Zi sé
— aos  pc  x
oi
Fae
eei, .
  Ps ,; Ly ry Py  Py  
om) Pe) '
  bd  e
\    j
— —— SS |
f oan  cap  yan —. Ms bn oF Cc: .
YW) Se:  o- o. cs ee: Sy t: ss: ts
* c: En Pe ho  
a  oe
 comm e: p
[x "oO: a:  B- ae Ss: ae:  SEZ. ,
Poe TE Mm EB! UBS lw SE Ot OEM
  Ss Ss  am. SES Se: Fe. we |
'  io) G. Pan)  —S ey: r} Ss: &: &u 
- Lye- Sow  ps om Re —: oa |
(Sn BSP SSP Bee FL: et: see  Ke:  
Ps oH HS; wie wa: wo oF Zz on  
wn  Ese ess ets ot: wed cts ERS esé ems
‘ ti om  om ———  
i ga ZEq Ez Ea Eg: zee Seu EE:  CAwod
[x -*  a" eis ae is  &
 “c  esd |
(e)Zo “co ccz  co “a  FC “ct -—- Ce Bie |
  oe Se
 zc oe cy Ss is  eb:
 ib  FR ss
|. Cc  ot! ne  zZ.
pet  
|  af  ow
elif  Te Ft Fe Ss sb: OE  &§ cf
a #@ £Ee “s: NE:  tos
fx, ms po “- .e  Ns?
|  wait ets  ws dv wee
|  ete eeb cc fre  coy OE  e
io amie? ez  cated aed aa  zis yy  
| Cz eF-  tz  are  ft Eso  ges
ES cet Fei Fei  siz §& mn ss ce
pt ES USE UF te UU LU EE OK Se
|  SF 
o  -:  
nie B: LS
: hCUe Py .
ne: ie ro zis sz Ez €: a: fez
-  ce ff  ao. ow. ea mS  --  #€
(  as oS:  es ut wr Tr ws £: ast Cuo™
. st  wi sZt a,  c.
(| AS RS Sz  ne Mi AE ate
a
  of, vey z
gS Ei: of be £&  |
c: f.  er  ,
 ae  ft &
rd te  Cc ra  
a s
| cof Sic §£ "
jf  oc  Ss mi 

|! es  .
: ‘oe :
; a: za F’ ao ||
ot be: P) es ||
$  wa EB
z  ae '- -- ad et Su 
, Bs  ap oS |
ly  r}  Pt RE Sk  aa |
—-|———s Fe Fe )
u ‘G 
Biles  eH 
e :
| Cat :
| sae L, “* a
| Zea ;
| S$
i| See as Men nN nm te ;
' tt  Ve} oun Pr} te iis ‘
| al nam rs  (-  
| i
| Z aes Fa S
a s-  on Ga le 
IE  cs  s- 
(aspo  |
laela cce c& Ce FEZ  Beet &
.  o
  gre OO madd |
eo, aa,
  
s| ard  
g |'-— |) —————————
oO] aye ,
 -—- ye) Ca  on pa  |
U so NS nl he  ss  x
\|  OB

- aI ||
xe es  bd .
a -# .
a oe
 $ |
y es SEee ae eael |
  br -) ke ?: -- ra Sa a
SP: see  h:  Be OC Ss B:
S se Fe:  PF BE: Sa: FL: ge: |
ae  BE: #&  ey i, Be ey
, fe: #ks ——,  ae
 ie Has rz Ct ow es os “-.
— Oe  PS a) pny Se ete
— s& gat fe:  
A one Sane. ute SS ws oe    se!
| eet it  oP 
| se E—cc oat be ae Sxza  E@e ext cz
gg*  ss Es  Ae  ce see es
n/n -Ee SeSR KG “ee BRS Cre, Bee et
| et  -—  aia ats Wee |
Geena) SOO OOS   es et Seo Abe ES
 ae ce tes ae |
Ez cr Zz ts ae -]
  Le es so Gs  
. Ps wus  ae  :
fs) Fi Eos os oe ge  |
Yi  te ie (a c-  zs z
  e—  Bs oes soe Oe,” ele i
 e$* ere Tn cms  e: pe)
 “£  —-—c wt Coat ce oS eS. Ss .
- ees Cox  Ld ody  nt the  £xs ce aoe es hE te c
z Fe Sas Soe @e EF EE &S
 sc  sa)  OC EE  Oe BS US. CE 
} PA Fit -—- wae ——— te —-:  —-  Le o& +
S| ey Cea"ALES OE ST RE OBE Se OLR oS
- os.” iene bY. ae ees i
-  ie ae er :
|  ov. vee ia Ps si S. .
t-*)  ea a.  ‘
 -— Ba) is :
i ae oe se  af ea Binge ta ea  .g
|ie—— -:  am e—  |
| ss zn ec ne  ty  \
a  ae z: SF Bs Sf:
 rh sag :
alias Ese eS Se Ae Seme. Heo we os
* :  
s a, 
| ze  
|  So Se Ses
i gw i? se SS eS Oe See
iz 
s "op ae  os
 c+ es is ca  EF
fe Se. Oe
 SS
iT] --  
es ms es ve) ir)  |
Digtizea ty GOOLE

|
  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .
The following streets have been accepted by the city
during the vear:
Name of St. ,. From To Length. Width
Chestnut St. jJackson St. ‘Franklin St. ft.) ft.
Davis St. Elm St. Walnut St.  ft.| ft.
Martin St. iso. line of Apoints 
,Westfield r’d ft. so. of ceniter line of.
: Westfield r’d| ft. ft.
Meadow St. IMain St. ‘Hol. Westfield Railroad
| location  ft.! ft.
Morgan St. (North'ton St.,  ft. east ft.’ ft.
No. East St. ‘Lyman Si. ‘Canal St. ft. ft.
THE ESTABLISHED GRADES OF THE ABOVE NAMED
STREETS ARE AS FOLLOWS.
| Name of Street. Grade.
Chestnut St. At the intersection of the center line
of Chestnut St. with the center line of
: Franklin St...... cc.   es  
Chestnut St. At the intersection of the center line
of Chestnut St. with the center line of
Jackson St. co...         
Davis St. At the interseetion of the eenter line
of Davis St. with the center line of
Walnut St. co...    ee    
Davis St. At the intersection of the eenter line
of Davis St. with the center line of
Elm St. cc...         se  
Martin St. At the interseetion of the center line
of Martin St. with the center line of
the Westfield road ..............  
Martin St. On the venter line of Martin St.  
ft. south from the center line of the
Westheld road co.cc.          

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
Name of Street. Grade. |
Martin St. At the intersection of the center line
| of Martin St. with the center line of
Hitcheock St. ...  ... ee,
Martin St. On the center line of Martin St.  
ft. south from the center line of the
Westfield road .............  
Martin St. On the center line of Martin St.
  ft. south from the center line
of the Westfield road..............  
Meadow St. At the intersection of the center line
of Meadow St. with the center line of
Main St. cc...    
Meadow St. At the intersection of the center line
of Meadow St. with the center line of
Sheridan St. co... cc...  ee  BD. 
Meadow St. At the intersection of the center line
of Meadow St. with the center line of
Sherman St. .........      
| Meadow St. At the intersection of the center line
of Meadow St. with the center line of
Grant St.  ...         TLD
Meadow St. At the intersection of the center line
of Meadow St. with the east line of
Hol. Westfield R. R. lovation.....  
Meorgan St. At the intersection of the center line
of Northampton St. with the center
line of Morgan St.......... .......  
Morgan St. At the intersection of the center line
of Morgan St. at point ft. easterly from the center line of Northampton St. .....        QUO
Morgean St. On the eenter line of Morgan St. at
a point ft. east from the center
line of Northampton St. ..........  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
Name of Street. Grade.
Morgan St. On the center line of Morgan St. at
a point ft. east from the center
, line of Northampton St............  
No. East St. At the intersection of the center line
of No. East St. with the center line
Of Lyman Stic...      ee   OTD 
No. East St. At the intersection of the center lne
of No. East St. with the center line
of No. Canal Stoo...     
CURBING AND SIDEWALKS.

The length kind and average cost of the curbing and
sidewalks laid during the vear are shown in the following
table.

CURBING.
Length in. Cost per lineal Total cost.

Feet Kind ft. delivered laid per

in the eity lin ft.
| ,

  -in, first class KOLBAKOLOT 

| granite |

$ -in. second class  

eranite |
  granite circles  .- 
SIDE WALI.
Total cost
Length in, Kind Square vards per square
feet vard
| |
  Portland cement 
conerete oe
| l
;  .P  Tar conerete td
, Including
at xeayation

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
e
PAVEMENTS.
Pavements laid during the vear, giving the kind, area
and eosts. are as follows:
| Length Area Cost Per
Streets Paved Kind of ‘Material of Foundation in Square Square
Pavement Sub Grade Feet Yards Yard
Bh from Appleton |
Partly Clay in. .
to Hampden .............. Macadam and sand Trap Rock  
Chestnut from Dwight H
.ardpan oe as
toSargeant..—......... and Sand  
Crescent from Appleton to Park... .......... Sand “e  
Dwight from ft. E. !
Forestdale av to Ivy av Sand ‘oo  
Laurel from Brown av |
ee Gravel ae oe a
to Northampton ...... and Sand  
Maple from Fountain
to Prospect ........  ... Hardpan **  
School from Dwight to
Suffolk lo   Clay  
Summer from Adams .
to Sargeant ........ oe. Sand  
Williams from Lincoln
to Allyn oo... Gravel  “e  
Intersection of Willow 
and Laurel .............. .* Gravel  
Railroad from Applea Hardpan, Portland -
ton to Dwight .... cree Granite Gravel, Cement  
Jackson from H. Clay Concrete
R.R. easterly ft......;. Granite Clay Gravel  
( Portland
Essex from High to Cement
Bond cocci beeBrick Gravel (Concrete 

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
. NisW STORAGE RESERVOIR.

The construction of new storage reservoir near the
headwaters of the Manhan Brook. which has been contemplated for some years past. was begun this vear.

Surveys and contour maps were made of the proposed
basin to determine the eapacity at different elevations.
Daily gaugings have been recorded for number of years
on this stream. |

From the data so obtained. reservoir to hold  ,
  gallons of water was decided upon as best adapted to the

) future requirements of the water supply of the city.

All timber has been cut and removed from the basia
and the shores stripped and grubbed from point five feet
above to point ten feet below the flowage line.

The test pits excavated during the months of February
and March at the site of the new dam revealed ledge rock

  within few feet of the surface, notwithstanding statements
; made to the effect that no roek would be found within two
, ‘miles of the location.

After exeavation of the surface, the ledge was found to
extend over the whole site of the dam. This ledge is mainly
of granitic formation weighing about pounds to the

; eubic foot, with irregular surfaces, and has no definite lines
of cleavage.

On the east side the surface of the ledge rock selected
for the foundation dips generally to the north towards the
reservoir at an angle of from to degrees from the hor- 
izontal. On the west side the surface assumes more vertical position with dip to the northeast.

Between these two formations were found seams of
conglomerate composed principally of trap and miea schist.

On the site of the dam all loose roek was removed. A
cut-off treneh about four feet deep was excavated in the
sound ledge and all seams thoroughly grouted.

Considerable delay was epexrienved by the contractor

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
in the excavation of the conglomerate which could not be
drilled or blasted economically. heavy blast throwing out
but three or four cubie feet. Pick and shovel were used to
reach the hard rock underlying this formation.

The surface of this underlying rock varies in depth
from six to ten feet below the surface rock at the bed of
the brook. Its hard, irregular surface forms an ideal foundation for the dam.

A few springs were encountered on the west bank which
were drilled and piped to the toe of the dam and thoroughly
grouted.

CYCLOPEAN MASONRY.

Cyelopean masonry was used throughout, sufficient
quantity of gravel of very good quality being found,
which, when screened, formed an ideal aggregate for watertight conerete.

Large blocks of granite quarried in the vicinity are :
used as ballast, forty to forty-five per cent of stone being
used. The concrete weighs about pounds per eubie foot
and the ballast pounds. The masonry is estimated as
weighing between and pounds to the eubie foot.

Reinforcement of one-inch steel rods were laid vertically one foot. center to center, along the whole upstream
fave of the dam as an additional safeguard against any ice
pressure that might possibly oceur.

Personally the writer believes that in this particular
instance ice pressure might have been disregarded, as the
gently sloping banks on the opposite side of the reservoir
from the dam will allow the ice ‘to slide upon the shore.

Another feature which must be taken into account  s
the wedge formation of the ice in the vicinity of the dam.
The steep shores converge towards the dam and take the
thrust of this ice wedge thereby removing practically all
such pressure from the dam.

The dam is feet long at the top, exclusive of the

P  re

|
  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
eore wall on the east, and about feet at the bottom, the
bed rock sloping more gradually on the east than on the
west side.

The height above the surface rock at the brook is  
feet; the width at the base is feet at point feet
from the top, and the back is vertical. The face is battered
  feet to one foot.

The spillway is feet below the top of the dam and  s
D  feet in length on the westerly end of the dam. It is built
nearly at right angles to the dam on the downstream side,

the approach channel being feet deep and feet in width
at the back of the dam and gradually diminishing in the
area of its cross section to about square feet.

From the gatehouse wells on the upstream side of the
dam two pipes pass through the dam, one inehes in diameter and one inches in diameter, with sluice gates in the
wet Wells and gate valves in the dry wells. Both pipes are

. placed at the same elevation.

Grooves are formed in the concrete walls of the wet
wells for emergency stop planks and these may be used ordinarily for guard screens.

The inlet openings in the eoncrete wall from the reservoir ty the wet wells are at different elevations. The opening to the  -inch pipe is placed at the bottom. It takes the
ordinary flow of the stream during construction and will
drain the reservoir in an emergency.

The opening for the  -inch pipe used for ordinary supply is feet above the bottom to provide for sedimentation ba-in below the supply inlet.

The present bed of the brook below the dam will be
used to convey the water to the lower or intake reservoir
at Fomer, two miles downstream.  -inch pipe carries the
water the twelve miles between Fomer and Ashley Ponds.

,

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
RESERVOIRS.

A new iron footbridge feet in length, extending from
the top of the High Service reservoir dam to the intake,
Was constructed by the Walsh Boiler Works.

Sketches were submitted for new entrance to the
grounds surrounding the Ashley Ponds reservoir and for
a shelter for the department watchman.

Plans for new roadway through the apple orchard at
Ashley Ponds are in course of preparation.

The arch over the Roek Cut at Ashley Ponds was extended distance of feet. Reinforced concrete was
used in the construction of the arch.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

Plans were made for locker house at the electric light

station. and an estimate made for raising the turbine house.
BOARD OF ASSESSORS.

Maps of properties west of Northampton street, begun
last year for the Board of Assessors, were completed early
in the vear. ,

CITY SOLICITOR.

Plans were prepared for accident cases on Beacon avenue, Lyman street and the West Springfield-Holyoke line.
LAND DEVELOPMENT.

During the year the necessity became apparent for control of the development of new tracts of land. Investment
companies lav out their land to obtain the largest number of
building lots, without consideration for past or future development of adjoining properties. Their streets have ex- |
treme grades, and in many cases our present sources of supply cannot furnish water at such altitudes.

| REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
| PARKS.
| The system of drains built this year in Hampden Park
| has greatly improved the condition of the walks in wet
| weather.
| In Elmwood Park an extension of feet was built at
| the easterly end of the culvert and filled in, thereby increas| ing the available park area.
| Playgrounds were laid out in Wards One, Five and Six,
and shelter house has been bwilt at the Hampden street
| grounds.
During the storm in July one of the lookouts on the
| wall at Prospect Park, erected in  was undermined by
. the water and moved very much out of position. To remedy
| this damage the ground was exeavated to bed rock in three
| places, and econerete piers resting on bed roek were built
underneath. The wall was then raised on jacks and forced
| back into its original position.
| PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
Extensive alterations have been completed in the East
, Dwight street school and this building now compares favorably with other modern structures in the city.

A new boiler house and laundry have been erected at
the City Farm during the vear and are giving satisfactory
service.

Plans and specifications have been made for new stairs
at the Hamilton street school and for retaining walls for the
Appleton street and Ingleside sehools, all of which have
been completed during the vear. Plans were also made for —,
alterations in the Sargeant street school. !

STREET NUMBERS.

The usual assignment of street numbers has heen made ,
during the vear. |

|

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
MAPS.

A new map of the city, including outlying districts and
the newly acquired territory of Smiths Ferry, has been
prepared,

PLANS.

The following is the number of plans made and placed

on file in this department:
Plans for new and alterations in public buildings.....  
Street plans and profiles...  ...        
Sewer plans, profiles and maps.............e. 
Bridge plans  ...   ec ues  
Extension of culvert in Elmwood Park..............  
Pians for Holvoke Water Works............ .-  
Plans for Gas and Electric Department..............  
Plaus for Railroad street retaining wall..............  
Plans for City Solicitor showing location of accidents.  
Map of Hampden Park showing improved drainage...  

Besides these there have been made for the Water Department new set of solio prints showing the distribution
system in detail and brought up to date.

ELECTRIC WIRING.

The number of electrie wiring specifications tiled during the year is  .

INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS,

The total expenditures of this department. including
stationery, office supplHes, printing, advertising. assistants,
team hire, carfare and traveling expenses, Were .

The number of inspections is as follows:

Additions. and alterations. ........       
Publie sehools and institutions. .......... 
Apartment blocks  ...     cence     OT


