OF THE
FOR  
Containing the Mayor's Address
City Government Roster
Annual Reports
Ete.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN
ASWALT OD
See
CEES
a MINE DY
ANKER PRINTING CO.
wR pn.
HOLYOKE, MASS. .
 



|

|

OO |
, |

 ,,, |

CONTENTS

Mayor’s Address  
City Government,  
Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen  
City Officers,  
Election Officers,  
Report of Board of Water Commissioners,  
Report of Department of Police,  
Report of Overseers of the Poor, |
Report of City Treasurer,  
Report of Sinking Fund Commissioners.  
Report of School Department,  
Report of City Engineer,.  
Report of Fire Commissioners, )
Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures,  
Report of Board of Health,  
Report of Gas and Electric Department,  
Report of City Solicitor,  

| Report of Board of Assessors,  
Report of Board of Public Works,  

- Report of City Auditor, a
Report of the Board of Park Commissioners,  
Report of Playground Commissioners,  
Jury List for   
City Officers,  
Ordinances,   |
 

. f

. \

| |

| !

!

| |

| |

  |
a

Inaugural Address
OF
Mayor of Holyoke, Mass.

) KSRIA ETS
Sener:
oMINE SY,

NINTEEN HUNDRED AND THIRTEEN

jp |
. .
I
|
+
l
  
e
i
|
t
|
'
i
 
i

. a
a oe
. .

rr
———
om .
Y ST. aa
/ w, SS —
/ *
/ ,
/ us| ,
/  
j .
| ae
| ,
| a
| ae
a
™“ one 
P **  ,
i)
\ y/
' \, y/ .
\ y
\,
. A
- —
JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.

—
 
i. am” .
aa r
. “
.  
we “*
.  .
a
od -.
. x
: ,
e bd  #
.
v .
£
  :
é be
/ ‘
? .
’ yy, .
, ‘
- t
. ;
. .
oa
‘ 
e :
 .
*Ss “a t
. oy
. So
' -e
* ry .
oo. |
: aes ;
: ’. ty
t .
i ’
;  ba ‘
: ‘

, |
: ;
. 
‘ yy |
. ay 
. .
: 
an  
“ ‘
. *s. &
i
  .
‘ f
  i
* 
| |
. .
, i
. oy  '
. aa .
t me Ls *
, I
.
wi *
ran
x “
*.
nN at *
\  :
 “a
an ‘
\ 
.  oa -*  
‘, to 
+ -
. ”.
.  BY x

MAYOR'S ADDRESS
To the Honorable, the Board of Aldermen,

of the City of Holyoke:

FINANCES.

To close the year with all obligations having been promptly
met and additional appropriations in the sum of 
granted to various departments, all within tax rate of 
is the record of the administration of  and it is with a
feeling of pride that submit this report to the citizens of
Holyoke.

The net debt of the city, exclusive of gas and electric
and water departments, at the close of the fiscal year was
$ decrease of  of the net debt exclusive of the above departments year ago.

The net debt of the gas and electric department at the close
of the year was and of the water department
$ .

The valuation of our public properties exclusive of gas and
electric and water departments ts The valuation
of our water department properties is approximately ,
 and of our gas and electric department approximately
$ .

Our loans the past year consisted of  for gas
and electric department for the purpose of building and equipping the new gas retort house,  for the water department to be used in the completion of the new White Reservoir
and  general loan to be used for highway, sidewalk
and sewer construction and for improvements in school buildings, this latter loan being the smallest that has been made for
many years.

.
 MAYOR’S ADDRESS

The borrowing capacity of the city is an
increase over last year of .

The report of the special finance commission of the state
places Holyoke in the front ranks as sound financed municipality and the above figures are corroboration of their report.
All this has not been accomplished without some opposition,
for it is fact that some departments would spend the entire
city appropriation if they did not have safety lever in the
form of the legislative and executive bodies. Much credit is
due to the board of aldermen of the past year for this showing
and am pleased to publicly express my appreciation of the
loyal cooperation of last year’s board, also to the various
departments who earnestly endeavored to make the best
showing possible with the amount appropriated to them and
it is not to their discredit that we were called upon to grant
them extra appropriations towards the close of the year.
Conditions beyond their control arose and they met them as
best they could under the circumstances. The order of the
board of aldermen establishing minimum wage of 
per day for all regular emplovees of the city in all departments
will become effective and must be considered in this year’s
appropriation. |

SCHOOLS.

To those of you who are financially able to send your
children to college our schools are perhaps only stepping
stone in the progress of an education, but to the parents who
must depend entirely upon our schools for the education of
their children, they appeal as school an college combined and
from this fact most forcibly impressed upon me by actual
contact with conditions during my two years as mayor, I
have come to the conclusion that even at the expense of an
increased tax rate, we must provide all that is necessary for an
education for our children that will enable them to go into the
world equipped to fight the battle which at its best is bitter
one.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  

During the coming year we shall build and equip new
gymnasium and technical school and while this will mean
greatly increased expenses, believe we owe duty to our
children to provide suitable means of physical as well as
mental training. When completed we shall have gymnasium
and athletic field for the children of Holyoke second to none.

The new superintendent has taken hold of his duties in an
able manner and much credit is due his efforts to keep within
the anticipated overdraft of the school appropriation. The
members of the school board have been very considerate of
my suggestions of the necessity to curtail expenses wherever
possible and while it was necessary to grant them an additional
appropriation am pleased to say was agreeably disappointed
in the sum required. |

WATER DEPARTMENT.

With the completion of the new White Reservoir this
department adds one more to the chain of their very valuable
assets.

During the year new pipe line was laid to Smiths’ Ferry
covering distance of about three miles, thus giving to this
district full water service for both household use and fire protection. This work cost approximately .

Over two thousand feet of new mains have been laid
throughout the city.

The improvements at the Rock Cut have been carried on,
the arch over the canal has been completed, new shelter house
built at Wright Pond and the gate house repaired and painted.

A new arch at the entrance to the Whiting Street Reservoir adds materially to the beauty of the surroundings. Many
other improvements have been made all of which will be found
in the complete report of this department.

A pay as you go policy has been the motto of the board and
all improvements and new work with the exception of the
White Reservoir, has been paid for from the receipts.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS

The statement of the balances in the department for the
past six years is interesting and shows able management.
The balance in was In   ,
$    ,
$ The reduction in the balance for this year being
accounted for by the vast amount of new work done and
improvements made. All possible precautions have been
taken to prevent pollution of the waters in the various ponds
and reservoirs and Holyoke is indebted to the water board for
its splendid water supply.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

The voters at the last election voted to accept the law
providing for one day off in five to firemen and as result
ten new men must be aded to the department in order to
keep it up to its present efficiency.

The report of the Board of Fire Commissioners is an interesting one setting forth as it does in detail the number of
fires, their causes, the amount of insurance carried, the amount
of insurance paid and not the least interesting the fact that
that the total net loss for all fires amounted to only .
When we consider the total net loss from this cause was less
than we may well pride ourselves on good and
efficient fire department.

The recommendations made by the commissioners warrant
our careful consideration, more especially those regarding the
new headquarters to replace the present High street building.
The erection of new house in Ward one, the changing over of
all houses to provide separate sleeping rooms and the purchase
of new automobile apparatus, in fact all the recommendations
are wise ones and should and feel sure will, receive your
earnest consideration and as far as it is possible be carried
out.

THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The year was devoted mostly to new road building,

The past vear, however, we felt that it was imperative that we

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
do something towards preserving roads that were commencing
to show signs of decay and many streets that had been built
ten or dozen years ago received treatment that will prolong
their lives for several years more. More sidewalks and curbing
were placed this year than in many years past and we have
been very liberal in the matter of building sewers to take care
of new houses erected.

We encountered snag this year in the collection of our
garbage owing to the fact of the contractor who has formerly
maintained large piggery discontinuing, and as result we
were at loss as to what disposition to make of garbage and
there has been some confusion, collections have not been made
as promptly as heretofore, although the board took all reasonable steps to continue the work as it should be done. It would
seem as though the city will be called upon to either erect an
incinerating plant and burn the garbage or to establish a
municipal piggery. ‘The former plan seems wisest and is being
adopted by many cities who have experienced practically the
same trouble in the matter of garbage collections as we have.
We have endeavored to attend to the more thickly populated
districts as there is more danger in allowing the garbage to
accumulate in such places than in residential districts where
the congestion is not so great.

POLICE DEPARTMENT.

With the appointment today of new man as city marshal
will begin vigorous campaign to stamp out politics, jealousies
and petty grievances from this department, and to compel a
general stiffening up both in the conduct of the men and their
appearance while on duty. Police officers are servants of all
people who are law abiding and masters only of those who
violate the law, and even as masters they are supposed to use
consideration and common sense and it is with much regret
that am forced to say that we have officers, who seem to
lack this most essential qualification of an officer of the law.
I realize that at its best the position of an officer is not an

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS —
enviable one, but the man who accepts the appointment knows
the requirements and will be expected to be what the name
implies, police officer at all times. We have added new men
to the department this year but am of the opinion that if
we are to give the outlying districts the service that they are
calling for we shall be obliged to add still more. The boys of
todav, some of them, do not seem to fear an officer providing
they are safe distance away and the larger the beats the less
effective is the work of the officer, therefore, should the people
: insist on better protection in the outlying districts we shall
be forced to increase the department.
GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

This has been year of continued growth in this department, the records showing that we have sent out during the
year cubic feet of gas, an increase over last year
of cubic feet. The electrical end shows an output
of kilowatts for the year, an increase of  
kilowatts over last year.

The new gas retort house will be ready and making gas
in the early summer and it is to be hoped that the statement
made by the former manager that we would see eighty cent gas,
will prove true.

An investigation that have been making since assuming the position of acting manager has brought to light the fact

that this department is still indebted to the city on its original
purchase and the accompanying statement shows that there

is an indebtedness of  due the city after crediting .
them with the interest on their daily balances from to

the end of the fiscal year, also allowing them market price for
  gallons of tar supplied to the highway department

during the past six years.

During the years this department has been occupying
their offices in the city hall no rent has been charged them
although it is my opinion that rental should be charged and

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
that any supplies they may furnish to any department of the
city be charged to said department at regular market price.

I would recommend that some arrangement be made
whereby this sum of  be paid back to the city in
annual payments as it is rather misleading to have debt
like this one on the books.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT IN ACCOUNT
WITH CITY OF HOLYOKE.
 
Dec.  —Total expended for litiga- Nov.  —Interest payment to the
tien .$  City Treasurer  
Litigation bonds issued and  
included in the forego- Jan.  —County of Hampden, reing items, as follows: fund on Commissioners’ fees,  
Aug. to July  Nov.  —Transfer to “Lighting,”  
June I, to Nov.  —Excess interest paid in
nterest at per cent on the  . 
issue,  
Interest at per cent on the 
issue   Oct.  —Transfer to “Lighting,” Bonds paid out of taxation, Nov.  —Transfer to “Lighting,” Bonds paid out of taxation Nov.  —Transfer to ‘General’
  Bonds paid out of taxation Transfers   Bonds paid out of taxation, Nov.  —Excess interest paid in
  Bonds paid out of taxation . Bonds paid out of taxation 
a  
$  Nov.  —Intercst on daily balances from Jan.  to
Nov. ...  .) .O gallons of tar for highways from to inclusive  
Balance due City. 
$ 

*Up to and including the year  the interest on
the gas and electric bonds were paid by the city out of the
interest appropriation; the gas and electric plant reimbursing
the city from its receipts. The ‘“‘excess payments” means
the amounts paid in excess of the interest due on the gas and
electric plant bond issues and intended as repayments on the
interest accounts of the bonds previously issued for litigation.

PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.

To the father of family these two departments strike
us as likening to our older and vounger children, the former
who realize that all things are not possible and are content to

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS

get their just dues, the latter, impetuous, self-willed and not
content unless they get everything they ask for. Thus it is
with the parks and playgrounds, the former content, to get
their share and like the older child, ripened by experience they
know that all things are not possible. The latter, impetuous,
objecting to any restraining hand, asking for all and peeved
at not getting it. We should be liberal with both these departments. We have been liberal with them. One is as necessary as the other. The parks are haven of rest to old and
young, they are ornaments to our city. Playgrounds are still
in the infant class and should not expect too much. There
is considerable hysteria in some of the playground enthusiasts.
They should remember that children never have and never
will be satisfied with anything but real children’s play. Playgrounds will develop as time goes on. We cannot crowd them
too much for we owe something to other departments. Ask
the average child of playground age which he or she would
prefer to see, baseball or football game or to indulge in some
new form of amusement and the answer will be, “ball game’’
sure. believe that the average child gets more real fun and
enjoyment from witnessing game of ball than he or she
would in sitting down trying to learn to make straw hats.
In large bodies there will always be differences of opinion and
it may be perhaps well to reduce the number on the playground
commission to five as my experience has been that the best
results can be had from smaller bodv.

The park board has made very creditable showing during the past year and their recommendations for the coming
vear should be given consideration. The majority of the
playground commission are like the older child and to them
we can safely trust the destinies of the futureof the playgrounds
and look to them for good return from the appropriation given
them. |

There has been some criticism from the fact that we allow
ball playing and football games on the plavgrounds, more
particularly on Sunday, but anyone who will look at this from

:

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
a broad standpoint, the health of our children, and will go there
and see the happy, healthy multitude of children of all ages
enjoying themselves, will, am sure, savy with me: “After all
it is better that they should be here than perhaps at something else which would be much more harmful.” One of the
strongest arguments in favor of Sunday ball playing is letter
I received from widow who writes to say that since her son
became interested in Sunday bal! games he has been sober,
industrious boy and she prays that she will never see the day
that Sunday ball games shall be stopped and pray with her.

RELIEF DEPARTMENT.

If all the demands for relief were comphied with this would
be one of the costliest departments of our city. It is necessary
to know the deserving poor and the undeserving, and in this
respect the officials of this department stand at the head.
Relief is promptly given to all needy cases and when there is
a doubt the applicant is given the benefit pending more
thorough investigation of the case. There are cases which
have come to my notice wherein the city could not give relief,
the State would not, and it seems as though some legislation
ought to be passed whereby such cases could be provided for.

MODIFIED MILK STATION.

Incorporation papers are being prepared and will be put
through very soon and then we will appropriate for this organization specified sum each year similar to the method we
pursued in the matter of the public library. The work is to be
commended and fills long felt want.

BOARD OF HEALTH.

IKach sucding year brings forth new laws for this
department to comply with and it is getting to be very busy
branch of our municipality. An imperative order from the
State board of health will compel us to make provisions for a

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS
hospital for contagious diseases and we have under consideration and subject to the State board the turning of the so-called
Shea farm house into contagious hospital. This house is
far removed from any other house in the district and will
meet the requirements for several years at reasonable expense
of maintenance. There has been marked increase in the
efficiency of this department, their report showing able manage- ,
ment of all matters coming before them.
CITY SOLICITOR.

A complete clean-up has been made in this department of
all litigation and there are no cases on the books. The solicitor has been busy man during his term of office and has given
the business of his department such attention that in re-appointing him today feel that am simply rewarding one of
the most faithful, conscientious officials in my cabinet.

ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.

The work of this department has been very satisfactory
and is of so varied nature that only by reading the full report
to be published in the city register can the public learn the
vast amount of detailed work that has been done.

TAX COLLIECTOR.

The work of this department has been carried on in an

able manner and collections have been accounted for promptly.
BOARD OF ASSESSORS.

Practically every board of assessors in the state increased
property valuations this vear and our board is not excepted.
The law governs these increases and it is only fair that as property increases in value the city benefits thereby. In some
districts the increases in value were large, in other districts
the increases were small, but all were based on the actual |
increase of the valuation of the property. certain sign of

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
prosperity to the city is theincrease in valuation of its property.
There has been some question brought up as to whether or
not so-called undeveloped land is assessed high enough. This,
however, is matter for the board of assessors to determine
but it will perhaps do no harm if your board should take this
matter up. It might result in the sale of some of this property
and the erection of homes thereon, instead of it being held for
a rise in valuation in the vears to come.

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

So many and conflicting laws are being enacted each year
that one sometimes wonders when quart is quart, or a
pound is pound. Our local sealer has performed his duties
according to the prescribed laws, although on one or two occasions there has been difference of opinion between him and
the State officials as to the legality of certain scales and measures
but as we must comply with the State laws there is no other
course for us to pursue but see that scales that are declared
illegal by the State authorities are confiscated. Let us hope
that some day we will have sane laws in the State department
of weights and measures.

AUDITOR AND TREASURER.

Able and efficient men in these departments are an
absolute necessity and the best testimonial that can be given
to these departments is that the work meets with the approval
of all. :

CONCLUSION.

Gentlemen of the Board, we have been chosen by the
people to transact the business for them for the coming year.
We shall be called upon to give an account to them towards
the close of our term of office. Let us, you of the legislative
department, of the executive department, work together for
all things that are good for Holyoke and we mav look forward
to the approval that comes to those who do their duty faithfully
and well.

OF THE |
MAYOR.
HON. JOHN J. WHITE.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For One Year.)
ALBERT ARCHAMBAULT, WILLIAM G. CANTIN,
JOHN P. BLEASIUS, FREDERICK CHILDS,
JAMES P. ROHAN, JAMES I. CREAN,
JOHN STALKER.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For Two Years.)
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH, DANIEL LONG,
JOSEPH F. GRIFFIN, JOHN T. REGAN,
L. ALPHONSE LAPORTE, DANIEL F. SHEA,
HENRY F. THORPE.

CITY OFFICERS  
MEMBERS OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward I—WILLIAM NORTON. |
Ward  -CHARLES E. BOUDREAU.
Ward  —JOSEPH M. TOEPFERT.
Ward  —CORNELIUS J. MILLANE.
Ward  -MICHAEL J. GLEASON.
, Ward  -RICHARD M. POWERS.
Ward  —JOHN S. CLARKE.
CITY CLERK.
JOHN F. SHEEHAN.
CITY MESSENGER.
WILLIAM T. WALSH.
CLERK OF COMMITTEES.
JOHN C. DORAN.

|
Standing Committees
OF THE
 Finance.—Aldermen Shea, Cantin, Toepfert.
Ordinances.—Aldermen Griffin, Crean, Stalker, Cantin,
Toepfert.
Claims.—Aldermen Stalker, Thorpe, Powers, Regan,
Laporte.
Street Franchises.—Aldermen Crean, Shea, Laporte,
Childs, Rohan.
Rules.—Aldermen Shea, Toepfert, Crean, Griffin, Rohan.
Licenses.—Aldermen Childs, Regan, Gleason, Griffin,
Norton. |
State and Military Aid and Soldiers’ Relief.—Aldermen
Clarke, Stalker, Long, Norton, Boudreau.
Enrollment.—Aldermen Laporte, Clarke, Childs, Gleason,
Powers.
Municipal Lighting.—Aldermen Powers, Clarke, Gleason,
Cantin, Norton.
River Navigation, Trades and Industries.—Aldermen
Bleasius, Archambault, Long, Millane, Thorpe.
Education.—Aldermen Archambault, Bleasius, Rohan,
Millane, Boudreau.

a
City Officers
CITY TREASURER. —
Pierre Bonvouloir, Office, Room  City Hall
Elected annually at the Municipal Election.
CITY AUDITOR.

Daniel W. Kenney,  Office, City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.
Patrick J. Kennedy, Office, Commercial street
Appointed annually by the Board of Public Works.
CITY ENGINEER.

Timothy J. MacCarthy,  Office, City Hall
Appointed every three years by the Mayor.

CITY SOLICITOR.

Thomas J. O’Connor, Office, Dwight street
Appointed annually by the Mayor.

CITY PHYSICIAN. .

William P. Ryan, M. D. Office, Maple street
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
John J. White, Mayor and Acting Manager.

,

  CITY OFFICERS
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term Expires  
James A. Allen, Term Expires  
Israel Ducharme, Term Expires  
Timothy J. MacCarthy, Clerk, Oscar C. Ferry, Ass’t Clerk.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor.
ASSESSORS OF TAXES.
Joseph J. Kelly, Chairman, Term Expires  
William G. Beaudro, Term Expires  
Jeremiah J. Keane, Secretary, Term Expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
COLLECTOR OF TAXES.

James M. Kennedy,  Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF TAXES.

Frank A. McCabe.

Appointed by Collector of Taxes.

INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
William A. Stone,  .
Appointed by the Mayor.
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Patrick J. Dowd, Chairman, Term Expires  
Henry Baush, Term [xpires  
William J. Dillon, Secretary, Term [xpires  
John J. Byrnes, Almoner,  .
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

CITY OFFTCERS  
BOARD OF HEALTH.
Maurice Lynch,  John J. Carroll, M.D.  
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer,  .
Appointed by the Mayor.
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Philip M. Judd, Chairman, Term [expires  
George C. Robert, Term Expires  
Patrick F. Carmody,  Term [Expires  
Appointed by the Mayor.
John Hildreth, Secretary,
LICENSING BOARD.
Dwight H. Ives, Chairman and Scc’y, Term [expires  
Michael J. Bowler, Term [xpires  
Patrick J. Collins, Term [xpires  S
Fred Killian, Clerk.
INSPECTOR OF MEATS AND PROVISIONS.
John M. Carlon.
. Appointed by the Board of Health.
; INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
Wilham C. Van Tassell.
Appointed annually by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Board of Aldermen. |
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. CO.

Fred A. Monat John J. O'Neill ,
Thomas A. Bray Matthew B. Begley
John F. Harrington.

Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Joseph D. Goddu.
Civil Service.
INSPECTOR OF MILK.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
Appointed by Board of Health.
PARK COMMISSIONERS.

Lorenzo A. Williston, Chairman, Term Expires May 

William I. Morse, Term Expires May 

Thomas A. Dillon, Term Expires May 

William A. Matthes, Term Expires May 

Joseph Laliberte, Term Expires May 

Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.

Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Aldermen.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.

James J. Dunn, Chairman, Term Expires April 

Charles J. Perry, Term Expires April 

Alexander J. Therrien, Term Expires April 

Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of

Aldermen.
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.

Hon. John J. White, Mayor, ex-officio.

Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-officio.

Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term Expires March 

Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term Expires March 

Mrs. John J. Prew,  Term Expires March 
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

CITY OFFICERS  
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman, Term Expires  
Thomas J. Lynch, Treasurer, Term Expires  
Jesse E. Sheldon, Secretary, Term Expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
. WATER REGISTRAR.

Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room  City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

John J. Kirkpatrick, Office, Commercial street
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.
Thomas F. Monaghan.

Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds.)

Harry J. Bardwell, Term Expires  
Stephen A. Mahoney, Term Expires  
John J. Finn, Term Expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

BOARD OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
Frank B. Towne, Chairman, Term Expires  
Mary E. Hussey, Secretary, Term Expires  
Ovila Beauchamp, Term Expires  
David Brodinsky, Term Expires  
Mary C. Reardon, Term Expires  
Archibald A. Brooks, Term Expires  
Nathan P. Avery, Term Expires  
Mrs. William G. Dwight, Term Expires  
Martin P. Conway, Term Expires  

  CITY OFFICERS
POLICE DEPARTMENT. |
Marshal, Ruel R. Nickerson
| Appointed annually by the Mayor.
Assistant Marshal, Patrick Herbert
Captain, Timothy Haley
Lieutenant, Patrick E. Sullivan
INSPECTORS OF POLICE.
Peter A. Cullen, Frank R. Metcalf.
Maurice M. O’Connor.
SERGEANTS OF POLICE.
Dennis Mack, William E. Blackmer
George L. Dickinson, John J. Moriarty
Patrick F. Ryan :
PATROLMEN.
Richard Peters Michael Driscoll !
Thomas F. Riley Peter J. Manning
Francis M. Hastings Patrick J. Kennedy
John A. Powers Edward F. Gilday
John A. Geran Patrick J. Driscoll
— Cornelius Curran Thomas J. Rourke
James B. Griffin Patrick J. Gaughan
Jeremiah J. Linnehan Andre J. Seney
Walter J. Murray John J. O’Donnell
James EF. Malcolm John J. Grady
William Carey Medric H. Beloin
Henry M. Fisher John E. Goss
Albert Mew John J. Austin
Maxwell McDowell Michael J. Fogarty
James T. Welch Timothy J. Mannix
Henry Sussenguth, Jr. George E. Leary
Michael J. Clifford Frederick W. Kuenzel
Michael P. Conroy William A. Morgan

CITY OFFICERS  
George W. O’Connell Timothy J. Murphy
Michael J. Prendergast Michael J. Walsh
Michael J. Lynch Joseph A. Landry
James T. Donoghue Michael J. Herlihy
Rock H. Lalonde James J. Tisdale
Thomas Bresnahan John T. Quinn
Maurice H. Shine Albert M. Alben
Daniel C. McCarthy Garrett Bowler
Richard E. Lowcock Patrick J. Falvey
Joseph P. Kane Patrick J. Sullivan
Arthur E. Standen Edward H. Ashe
George Hickson Archibald R. S. Fletcher

PATROLMEN RETIRED ON PENSION.
John A. Davis Cornelius J. Louney
Michael Shine John A. Vachon
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.
RESERVE FORCE OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.

William C. Bessett, Appointed January .
James J. Fitzgerald, appointed January .
Thomas F. E. Powers, appointed, January .
Joseph A. Champagne, appointed October .
Roger P. Coffey, appointed April .
Michael J. Ginley, appointed April .
John F. Moriarty, appointed April .
Charles G. Leonard, appointed April .
Jeremiah F. Coffey, appointed January .
Luke F. Kilmurry, appointed January .
Timothy F. Lenihan, appointed January .
Roger Donoghue, appointed January .
Frank F. Schenker appointed January .
James L. White, appointed January .
Otto Eger, appointed January .
John J. Sullivan, appointed January .

  CITY OFFICERS

SPECIAL POLICEMEN.
Anderson, Conrad, Northampton street.
Allair, Napoleon, Main street.
Arent, Stanley, A. So. Bridge street. i
Avery, Frank L., Hampshire street.
Axmann, Joseph, Columbus avenue.
Baker, Michael J., Bh street.
Bartlett, Frederick G., Cabot street.
Bock, Carl F., Elliott street.
Brigham, Elisha N., Beacon avenue.
Bellerose, Albert, Ely court.
Bell, John H., Cottage avenue.
Berry, George W., Bh street :
Benoit, Toussaint, South Summer street.
Buchanan, John, Hampshire street. .
Cadieux, Edward, Brown avenue. :
Cavanaugh, Jeremiah, J., Newton place.
Connor, Dennis, So. Summer street. :
Corriveau, Joseph A., Center street.
Cronin, Daniel S., Samosett strect.
Clifford, Patrick J., Center street. |
Conway, Patrick J., Elm street. ,
Connors, James, Sargeant street. |
Connell, Joseph J., Dwight street. |
Collins, Timothy D., No. Bridge street.
Carrigan, Philias, Mosher street.
Cote, Joseph, Park street.
Dugas, George H., High street.
Dempsey, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Devitt, John, So. Bridge street.
Dickinson, John C., Carew street, So. Hadley Falls.
Doran, John C., Walnut street.
Doyle, Thomas W., Hampden street.
Duhaime, Joseph, So. Canal street.
Durocher, Alfred D., Jr., Park street.
Duval, Napoleon, Bond street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Dobbs, Ira J., Nonotuck street.
Duclos, Alphonse, Hamilton street.
Dupuis, Edmond, Southampton, Mass.
Donoghue, Michael, Pine street.
Ducharme, Ernest, So. Hadley Falls.
Eger, Paul C., Hitchcock street.
Emery, Arthur, Center street.
Evans, Charles R., Grover street.
Emery, Napoleon B., Bowers street.
Ezold, Emil B., Vernon street.
Falvey, Timothy, Pine street.
Finn, Martin, No. East Street.
Fontaine, Hermenegilde, So. Summer street.
Fitzgerald, Martin, Lyman street.
Foley, Michael J., Laurel street.
Fortier, Joseph, Maple street.
Fortin, Louis, Sargeant street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick J., Pleasant street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick, Bh street.
Gallivan, Batholomew, Elm street.
Geran, Patrick, Bh street.
Geissler, Carl F., Park street.
Goddu, Joseph D., Prospect street.
Goodrich, Charles H., Grover street.
Gagnon, Nelson, Ely street.
Garvey, John T. Armory street, Springfield.
Grandchamp, Charles, So. Summer street.
Gehan, Thomas J., Walnut street.
Griffin, Patrick J., High street.
Griffin, Philip, Pine street.
Gallagher, Thomas E., Dwight street.
Haley, Cornelius J., Easthampton road.
Haley, Michael J., Easthampton road, R. F. D.,  -A.
Hanley, John C., Pine street.
Henderson, James, Chestnut street.  
Hennesy, James, Pine street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Hills, George F., West street.
Hurlburt, Arthur P., Park street.
Harris, Joseph, No. Bridge strect.
Hoffmeyer, George, West Holyoke.
Johnston, Isaac, Franklin street.
Kane, Hugh, Elm street.
Kelly, Thomas J., Rock Valley.
Kennedy, John J., Hampden street.
Kennedy, Maurice, Iilm street.
Kennedy, Samuel, [foward street.
Kicly, John, Essex street.
Kingsley, Philip, Dwight strect.
Klopfer, Frank ., Park street.
Kerin, Michacl, Bh street. Lake, Aaron W., Smith’s Ferrv.
Lamb, James, [Essex street.
Lamont, James, Longwood avenue. |
Lachapelle, Godfrey, So. [ast street.
Lafontaine, Adclard,  Park street.
Lappin, Peter, No. East street.
Leblanc, Joseph, elm street.
Lempke, Henry, Rock Valley.
Linchan, Jeremiah J., Newton place.
Lunn, Horace A., Taylor street.
Lyons, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Landry, Joseph ME, Ielm street.
Laperle, Louis, So. Bridge street.
Meehan, Frank J., Dwight street.
Mechan, Joseph, Chapin street.
MeceCoombs, John, Walnut street.
McDonald, John W., No. East street.
MeNaught, Wiliam, Sargeant street.
Murphy, Jeremiah, So. Summer street.
Murphy, Timothy, [familton street.
Miller, Alexander  ., Sycamore street.
Morin, Francois, So. Summer street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Mihm, Edward, Hamilton street.
Mahoney, Daniel D., Pleasant street.
McCearn, John, School street.
McCool, John, Crescent street, Northampton.
McCarthy, Felix, Whiting avenue.
Maher, Alexander, Columbus avenue.
Maloney, Timothy, John street, Willimansett.
Mulany, George A., Elm street.
Murphy, Thomas, West street.
McKenna, Michael, Dwight street.
Manning, Patrick J., Samosett street.
Martin, John, Commercial street.
Maley, Patrick H., Elm street.
McGuire, Arthur, Lyman street.
Mengel, Frank O., So. Summer street.
McCarthy, Dennis, Samosett street.
McManus, John, Pleasant street.
Miller, George M., Jarvis avenue.
McLaughlin, William J., Newton street.
Manning, Michael, West street.
Moriarty, Daniel, Lyman street.
O’Connor, John J., City Farm, Ingleside.
O’Keefe, David, Bowers street, B. M. Passenger Sta.
O’Neill, John S., Sargeant street.
O’Brien, John H., E. Dwight street.
Oliver, Albert, So. Summer street.
O’Connor, James, Plymouth place.
Parker, Arthur B., Maple street.
Potvin, Gilbert, Sr., Maple street. |
Poutre, Ovila, So. Bridge street.
Peterson, Henry, Southampton road.
Pelott, Leander, Westfield road.
Raymond, Joseph M., Grover street.
Roche, William F., Sanoma place.
Ryan, James C., Newton street.
Rainault, Homer C., So. East street.

  CITY OFFICERS

Rogers, Harry W., Laurel street.

Rogers, William B., Newton street.

Roberts, Charles S., Sargeant street.

Reilly, John, Mosher street.

Redfern, Frank W., Race street.

Richardson, John F., Northampton street.

Raboin, J. Hormisdas, So. Summer street.

Reid, John Jr., South street.

Sabourin, Leopold, Park street.

Schoenfeldt, Charles L., R. F. D.  Rock Valley. :
Skilling, Thomas, Newton street.

Smith, Charles H., St. Jerome avenue.

Smith, John F., Pearl street.

Snow, Melvin N., Nonotuck street.

Spencer, Henry B., Suffolk street.

Stratton, Edward B., Dwight street.

Sullivan, Frank J., Carlton street.

Sullivan, John B., Elm street.

Saulnier, Joseph A., Chicopee street, Willimansett.

Stranfers, Axel, No. East Street.

Slavin, Thomas J., South street. .
Spooner, Edgar A., Montgomery avenue. |
Smith, Robert J., Walnut street. !
Samson, Edward, Bond street.

Sanderson, Whipple R., Essex street.

St. Martin, Anthony, West Springfield.

Stacy, Joseph, E. Dwight street.

Sittard, Charles, Main street.

Schubach, Frederick, No. Bridge street.

Tokarski, Felix, Union street.

Turconi, Romeo R., Maple street.

Thorne, Robert, Pine street.

Vogel, Frank L., Main street.

Vallee, Joseph, Pine street.

Wheeler, Fred A., Merrick avenue.

Whitcomb, Levi S., Elm street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Williams, Henry C., Faile avenue.
Williams, Fred S., Hampden street.
Wing, John F., Southampton road.
Wallington, Mark, Pearl street.
Wooley, Arthur E., Pearl street.
Young, Daniel W., Linden street.
Zenner, Hugo, R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
CONSTABLES.
Valentine J. O’Donnell, Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Myrtle avenue.
Ernest R. Laduke, Chestnut street.
Leon Bliss, Westfield road.
Salime J. Benoit, Walnut street.
Fred Laduke, Coit street.
J. Sidney Wright, Taylor street.
Frederick S. Williams, Hampden street.
George A. Mulany, Elm street.
Thomas J. Cummins, Ely street.
WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY:
William Hart, Congress avenue.
Walter R. Brown, View street.
William A. Kelly, Congress avenue.
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK AND
STONE.
E. A. Ellsworth, Essex street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Timothy J. McCarthy, Fairfield avenue.
W. J. Howes, Harvard strect.
A. F. Sickman, Lincoln street.

i
,
  CITY OFFICERS
| J. J. Keane, Linden street. .
| John J. Kirkpatrick, Howard street.
| M. N. Snow, Nonotuck street. }
| Wallace E. Sawin, Taylor street. ,
|
| CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
A. Judson Rand.
| INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
} FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O’Connell, Hampden street.
Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut street.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Linden street.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Michael Shine, Nonotuck street.
Richard Peters, Pearl street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
John A. Davis, Cottage avenue.
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
F. A. Whiting, Main street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue
C. R. Evans, Grover street.
William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.

CITY OFFICERS  
George I. Sackett, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street.
E. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
G. H. Lynds, Harrison avenue.
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.
William S. Bhing, Washington avenue. ,
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
John J. Kenney, Pine street.
Patrick Murphy, Elm street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Louis Bibeau, Race street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
Micahel F. Shea, Congress avenue.
William Brosnahan, Lyman street.
George A. Lawrence, Park street.
Thomas Shea, Elm street.
Frank J. Linnehan, Suffolk street.
Joseph Laframboise, Prew Co., Willimansett.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Prew Co., Willimansett. }
John Kennedy, Hampden street.
Patrick J. Sullivan, Center street.
Henry J. Baker, Linden street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
Arthur Zaumseil, Main street.
James Hennessey, Chestnut street.
William T. Wilson, Taylor street.
John Walsh, Dwight street. ,
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
Bertha O’ Keefe, Nonotuck street.
Wilfred Barsalon, Elm street.
James J. Wall, Pine street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
Michael J. Connor, Sargeant street.

|

, |
  CITY OFFICERS
Dennis Begley, No. East street.
William P. Keating, Charles street.
Arthur Turner, High street. !
Ira J. Humes, Oak street.
Jeremiah J. Grady, Elm street. |
Richard Connor, Bh street.
John Courtney, Lyman street.
Walter R. Brown, View street.
Madeline P. Dufresne, Riverdale street, Chicopee.
Joseph Harris, No. Bridge street.
John A. Wall, Pine street.

, MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.
Ie. R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street.
Daniel O’Connell, Jr., Hampden street.
W. S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street. |
C. B. Davis, Linden street.
F. A. Whiting, Main street.
E. G. Whiting, Oak street.
P. J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
M. E. Fitzgerald, South Hadley Falls.
Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.
John J. Kenney, Pine street.
John Walsh, Dwight street. .
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
John Shugruc, Lyman street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
WEIGHERS OF BEEF, PORK, MUTTON AND HIDES.
W. O. Judd, Chestnut street.

CITY OFFICERS  

SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.
S. M. Knowles, Beacon avenue. |
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
F. W. Ely, Locust street.
A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.
M. J. Teahan, Nonotuck street. |
Lewis Warner, Pearl street.
Patrick Walsh, Dwight street.

BURIAL AGENT.
Harry Crosby, Cabot street.

WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Patrick Gear.

Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Shaughnessy.

Clerk—Charles H. Goodrich. |

Deputy Clerk—Rodolphe Baillargeon.

Inspectors—Cornelius F. Crowley, James Clark, Octave
Langlois, Dieudonne Blain.

Deputy Inspectors—Jeremiah Mannix, Michael H. Fitzgerald, William M. Perry, Ernest Prevost.

WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—John H. Ryan.

Deputy Warden—P. J. Kennv.

Clerk—Wilbur A. Robinson.

Deputy Clerk—John Irvine.

Inspectors—Thomas J. Maroney, Francis J. Meehan,
William Viens, Eli Archambault.

Deputy Inspectors—John F. Kennedy, Dennis M.
Haggerty, Frank F. Lipps, Perle Marrs.

WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Odilon Moreau.

Deputy Warden—Louis A. Turgeon.

Clerk—Fred A. Monat.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph Charest.

Inspectors—Hilaire Jacques, Jr., George A. Tetrault,
Henry St. Cyr, Frederick Hamelin.

Deputy Inspectors—George A. Lawrence, Joseph U.
Smith, Hector Mousette, Peter L. Jarry.

ELECTION OFFICERS  
WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Dennis Healey.
Deputy Warden—John T. Regan.
Clerk—Joseph B. Fontaine.
Deputy Clerk—Edward Bourbeau.
Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Jr., Edward D. Welch,
John L. Fournier, Max Weisbach.
Deputy Inspectors—John C. Colton, Elezar Robert,
Victor Messier, Stanislaus Donaldson.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Isadore W. Davis.
Deputy Warden—Fred T. Ball.
. Clerk—James P. Hannan.
Deputy Clerk—William J. Leahy.
Inspectors—George Barnett, Jr., Martin J. Conway,
Jeremiah J. O’Connor, Jr., Wallace M. France.
Deputy Inspectors—Edgar M. Osgood, John Thomson,
August H. Baush, John H. Carroll.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Paul H. Koehler.
Deputy Warden—Michael J. Shea.
Clerk—John F. Lowcock.
Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin.
Inspectors—John F. Higgins, John Cronin, Frank A.
Wells, Fred Hoffman.
Deputy Inspectors—Charles E. Gillon, Henry J. Bey,
James Bower, William B. Clements.
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A. ,
Warden—Joseph P. Nolan.
Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Begley.
Clerk—Frank F. Hamel.
Deputy Clerk—Edmond Damour.

, |
|
  ELECTION OFFICERS |
Inspectors—Frank Lamay, Patrick Shea, Maple street,
Joseph Masse, Hormisdas Thomas.
Deputy Inspector—Urban Fleming, James Long, Conistant
Wolski, Sebastien Yenlin, Jr.
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.
Warden—William J. O’Connor.
Deputy Warden—Daniel J. McCarthy, Lyman street.
Clerk—Timothy F. Lyons. |
Deputy Clerk—Joseph K. Menard.
Inspectors—Joseph J. McCarthy, Levi Russell, Edward
Fitzgerald, James P. Hobert.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Shea, Chestnut street;
Thomas Ash, Joseph Daudelin, Joseph Vallee.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Owen L. Hand. ,
Deputy Warden—David F. Mullen. :
Clerk—Henry B. Spencer.
Deputy Clerk—Edward C. Purington.
Inspectors—Frank L. Greaney, Daniel F. O’Connell, Ira
J. Humes, G. Herbert Foster.
Deputy Inspectors—John J. O’Connor, Clinton avenue;
Patrick J. Clifford, Joseph N. Prew, George A. Green.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Charles E. Van Valkenburg.
Deputy Warden—- Walter C. Hatch.
Clerk—Frank D. O’Connor.
Deputy Clerk—Patrick J. Dempsey.
Inspectors—White P. Bidwell, Frank E. Buckley, Thomas
J. Hart, Patrick W. Fitzgerald.
Deputy Inspectors—William A. Allyn, Thomas J. Kelliher,
Frederick L. Bardwell, Michael Kerin.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Fred N. Ricker.
Deputy Warden—Leander C. Hartzell.

ELECTION OFFICERS  
Clerk—Lawrence F. Dowd.
Deputy Clerk—Joseph Morley.
Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles E. Watson,
Charles McCauley, George A. Lee.
Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Andrew Nye,
John Vaughan, James T. Devine.

WARD SIX—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Edmund J. Lee.
Deputy Warden—Thomas Skillings.
Clerk—Frederick Shearer.

Deputy Clerk—William J. Hall.

Inspectors—Vincent D. P. Sheehan, Edward A. Driscoll,
Alexander Pratt, Robert D. Moore.

Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Cavanaugh, Nicholas Cavanaugh, James Gray, Edward Chambers.

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Eugene C. Alderman.

Deputy Warden—George W. Doane

Clerk—Bernard F. Bigelow.

Deputy Clerk—James J. Haggerty.

Inspectors—Harry J. Ferry, Arthur R. Root, Linus D.
Crafts, William J. Dillon.

Deputy Inspectors—Raymond P. Allyn, William R. Chase,
William H. Delaney, Charles L. Witherell.

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.

Warden—John M. James.

Deputy Warden—Charles M. Nelson.

Clerk—John W. Scolley.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph F. Griffin.

Inspectors—FEarl J. Cain, Edwin B. Evans, Levi E. Fay;
James J. Driscoll.

Deputy Inspectors—Thomas E. Sullivan, John F. Murphy,
  Suffolk street, Thomas McGuiness, Frederick E. Quirk.

OFFICERS FOR  .
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman, .
Jesse E. Sheldon, Vice-Chairman,
Thomas J. Lynch, Treasurer.

WATER REGISTRAR.

Albert E. Pickup.
CLERK, )
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan.
 ASSISTANT CLERK.
Miss Helen A. Hanley.
SUPERINTENDENT
John J. Kirkpatrick.
| ENGINEER.
Timothy J. MacCarthy.
ASSISTANT ENGINEER.
Patrick J. Lucey. |
INSPECTORS.
James F. Cleary, oe
Thomas E. Sullivan, Joseph B. Walsh,
Eugene F. Kane, Daniel F. Cray.

REPORT OF
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen:

The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present
the following as their report for the fiscal year ending November
  :

RECEIPTS.

Balance December ,. , 
Waterrents, .  
Interest on meters, ..  
Service pipe, . 
Interest on bank deposits,  
Materials and labor, ..  
Hay, 
Wood,  
Scrap iron,ete.,  
Ice privilege and supervision,  
Lease of land to Holyoke Street Railway Co.,  
Rent of Connery farm, ...  
White Reservoir, for Buildings, Hay, Apples, etc.,  

Sale of forty  water bonds, premium and
interest, .  
Sundries,  ... 
Transfers,  es  
$ 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
EXPENDITURES.
Main pipe extension and supplies, . 
Service pipe extension and supplies,  
Main pipe repairs, ...  
Service pipe repairs, .  
Hydrants,    
Reservoirs:
Ashley and Wright Ponds, including Rock Cut, and
Whiting Street and High Service, 
Fomer,  
White, Southampton—Westhampton, ...  
Premium account, Bonds 
Sundries  
Supervision and inspection, ne  
Meters, Ce  
Barn,ee  
Shop,  ...    
Automobile, .. ..  
Office,  ww 
Engineering,  we 
City of Holyoke, taxes, +. 
Intereston bonds, . |
Transfers, Ce |
For all other purposes, ...  
$ 
Cash in Holyoke National Bank,  |
Cash in City National Bank,. ...  
Cash in Home National Bank, |
Cash in Park National Bank, ...  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank, 
Cash on hand, 
$ 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
December .

I hereby certify that have examined the books, and
accounts of the Water Department for the year ending November found them correctly added and the vouchers
for payments properly approved. The cash balance, 
has been verified.

D. W. KENNEY, City Auditor.

The Board is pleased to report the completion of the White
Reservoir Dam, including the gatehouse and appurtenances.
In addition to this new road was built below the dam, with a
new concrete bridge spanning the lower end of the spillway.

Owing to the failure of the original contractor to carry
out his contract the dam was not completed as early as the
Board had expected. The gates in the dam have been closed
and the reservoir is in process of filling.

A satisfactory settlement was made for the Cowls and
Cadwell land, which was taken by the Board by right of eminent
domain, the price paid being small parcel of land
was purchased from Dwight S. Bridgman for the sum of .

The Board has also purchased the Alpheus Hall property
in Westhampton, near the White Reservoir, but the deed has |
not yet been passed. This completes the necessary purchases
of land there.

Everything connected with the building of the reservoir
has been settled, except the dispute with the contractor to
whom the original contract for the dam was let, and hearing
on the matter in dispute is to be held early in January by an
auditor appointed by the Court.

The amount borrowed for White Reservoir was ,
the balance of the bonds, having been sold this year.
The amount expended on the White Reservoir to November
 th, including the masonry dam, gatehouse, dike with core
wall, concrete bridge, new road below dam, preparing basin, etc.,

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
and the purchase of over acres of land in the basin and on
the watershed of the reservoir, was This, of |
course, does not include the amount in dispute on the original |
contract. |
The pipe line to Smith’s Ferry has been completed, and
it is the intention of the Board to let the water into the pipe
this winter. This new line extends from Kenilworth Castle to
the Country Club, distance of over three miles, much of the
pipe being laid in trench excavated through rock. Thirteen
hydrants were installed along the line. The cost of the work
was paid out of the department’s receipts and amounted to
$ .
The distribution system has been further increased by
the laying of feet of inch and inch mains in various
streets in the City, at cost of The total main
pipe extensions were about miles, and cost .
Seven new fire hydrants were set at cost of in addition to the thirteen on the Smith’s Ferry Line.
  new services costing  were laid, and old
services were replaced at cost of .
The total length of the new services was feet.
Extensive improvements have been made at the Rock Cut.
The canal has been cleaned out, the concrete arch over the
canal extended to completion, and the westerly end of the
canal walls from the arch to the shore line of the pond raised
by coping of concrete, the dry walls below the coping being
strengthened by facing of concrete also. The cost of the work
this year amounted to .
The original Wright Pond gatehouse was repaired and
painted.
A shelter house has been built on the knoll east of the
Wright pond at cost of and new gateway costing
$  was erected short distance north of the old entrance,
with new roadway laid out through what was formerly an
apple orchard.
The improvements at the Whiting Street Reservoir include
a new entrance arch, which was erected on the road leading to

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
the reservoir, at point about half-way between Northampton
Street and the lower reservoir, at cost of The
road leading to and around the reservoir has been widened and
improved, and new drinking fountain, built of field stones
in keeping with the archway, supplants the old iron tank. The
side walls of the concrete channel on the mountain side north
of the reservoir have been raised and the bottom repaired,
resulting in an increased supply of water from this source.

A concrete floor was laid in the gatehouse at the upper
reservoir and the inside walls of the well treated to coating
of cement for the purpose of stopping leakage.

The Superintendent’s office has been remodeled and
refurnished, and another story was added to make room for
the engineering branch of the department. The cost of the
improvements amounted to over .

All of the improvements mentioned, with the exception
of the White Reservoir, were paid out of the department’s
receipts, which have been accumulating since  .

The extremely cold weather in the latter part of January
and early part of February was the cause of much concern and
considerable expense to the department, owing to the unusual
number of frozen service pipes. few hydrants and several
meters also were frozen.

The receipts of the department, exclusive of transfers and
the White Reservoir loan, aggregated an increase
of about  over those of the previous year, and despite
the heavy expenditures, amounting to over the
balance on hand in the general account at the close of the
fiscal year amounted to .

The outstanding bonds of the department, including the
White Reservoir loan, amount to and there is in
the department’s sinking fund, to meet these bonds, 
leaving net indebtedness of only The investments of the sinking fund are as follows:

Loans onrealestate, $ 
City of Holyoke bonds, .. +. 
Cashin banks, ..  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

The reason for the large amount on deposit in the banks
is that bonds to the amount of  mature in  .

A more detailed account of the work done during the
year will be found in the report of the Superintendent which
appears on following pages of this report, and to which you
are respectfully referred.

CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
Cost reported November 

Increase during the year:

Main pipe extensions, 

Hydrants, 

Shelter House, at Wright Pond,  

Rock Cut Arch and Grading, ..  

White Reservoir, oe. ee)  

Meters,  

Shop, 
$ 

Depreciation, two per cent, Lo  
$ 

The cast iron mains were extended feet. For
location, size and length of extensions see Table A.

The length of cast iron main is miles, and of temporary wrought iron, miles. For location, size and length
of mains see Tables and C.

Fifty-three gates were set in new locations. The total
number to date is  For location and size see Tables
D and E.

Twenty hydrants were set in new locations, and five were
replaced. The total number of public fire hydrants is  .
For location, etc., see Tables and G. Following Table G
is summary of fire service in the various mills in the city,
which is additional to the above. |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Nineteen meters were set in new locations, and eight
discontinued, making the total now in use  For make,
size and location see Table H.

One hundred thirteen service pipe connections were added
during the year, and eleven discontinued, making the total
number in use to date  .
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND NOVEMBER .

(Bonds due  and  .)
Amount reported November 

Increase during the year:

Interest on loans on real estate, 

Intereston Bonds, ..  

Interest on Bank Deposits, Lo.  
$ 

INVESTMENT.

Loans on realestate,, 

City of Holyoke Gas and Electirc Light Bonds,  

City of Holyoke Water Loan Bonds, :

City of Holyoke School Loan Bonds,  

City of Holyoke Sewer Loan Bonds,  

Cash in Holyoke National Bank, 

Cash in Home National Bank,  

Cash in Park National Bank,  

Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  

Cash in City National Bank, ..  
$ 

Examined and approved.

WALTER W. EATON,
Certified Public Accountant.
January .

| REPORT OF WATER BOARD
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE SEVERAL BOND ISSUES.
(Bonds due in  .)
Loans on Real Estate, 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds,  
City of Holyoke School Loan Bonds,  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank,  
| 
(Bonds due in  .)
Loans on realestate,. 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds,  
City of Holyoke Water Loan Bonds,  
City of Holyoke School Loan Bonds,  
City of Holyoke Sewer Loan Bonds,  
Cash in Home National Bank, 
Cash in Park National Bank,  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  
$ 
(Bonds due in  .)
Loans on realestate,, ... 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds,  
City of Holyoke School Loan Bonds,  
Cash in City National Bank, ..  
$ 
All of which is respectfully submitted.
THOMAS J. CARMODY,
JESSE E. SHELDON,
THOMAS J. LYNCH.
Water Commissioners.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
SALARIES OF EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent, 
Albert E. Pickup, Registrar,  
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan, Clerk, ..  
Miss Helen A. Hanley, Assistant Clerk,  
Patrick Gear, General Foreman,   
Alexander H. O’Brien, Foreman,.  
James F. Cleary, Chief Inspector, a,  
Thomas EF. Sullivan, Inspector,  
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, ..  
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector, ..  
Daniel F. Cray, Inspector, ...  
Patrick J. Lucey, Assistant Engineer,  
Frank J. Millane, Assistant Micro-Analyst,  
Mrs. Catherine Powers, Caretaker at Fomer Res.,  

|
|
(
" J
; |
. |
| Report of the Superintendent
To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners: |
| Gentlemen:—I have the honor to present herewith the
report of your superintendent for the year ending November
  .
THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
Nineteen thousand eight hundred and eleven )
| feet of mains were laid, as given below, making the total
mileage of mains about miles.
, In the Smith’s Ferry district feet of inch pipe
| were laid from the inch main near Kenilworth to the Smith
homestead (now owned by Gallivan Bros. Florists.) opposite
the Smith’s Ferry railroad station. From the inch main
| near the Smith homestead feet of inch pipe were laid to
| the southerly driveway of the Holyoke Country Club. In the
: Ferry landing road feet of inch pipe were laid from the
| inch main near the Smith homestead to the hydrant east of
the Smith’s Ferry railroad station. From this hydrant feet
| of inch pipe were laid easterly to supply the dwellings near
| the river. All the work of replacing the road surfacing, fences
: and guard rails, crossing and extending culverts, drains, etc.,
| with the backfilling, was done under the supervision of an
| inspector acting for the Massachusetts Highway Commission
| because the line is laid along state highway. Some of the
terms and conditions imposed by the Commission made the
work hardship and added to the cost of the pipe line. Rock
excavation was required in nearly per cent of the line.
Steam drills and dynamite were used to remove the rock.
Where rock was removed from the trench it was carted away

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
and sand, purchased from property owners along the line, used
for refilling. Such items tend to make the Smith’s Ferry line
expensive—more expensive than any pipe line owned by this
department. It is to be expected that the roadway will require
some repairing and touching up in the spring. Thirteen
hydrants were set along the line. Cost of line to date, including
hydrants .

In Cleveland street feet of inch pipe were laid from
end of pipe laid in to Yale street. Cost .

In Elmwood Avenue feet of inch pipe were laid from
the end of pipe laid in westerly. Cost .

In Harvard street feet of inch pipe were laid from
the end of pipe laid in to Nonotuck street. Cost .

In Harvard street feet of inch pipe were laid westerly
from Nonotuck street. Cost .

In King street feet of inch pipe were laid from the
end of pipe laid in to Queen street. Cost .

In Lexington Avenue feet of inch pipe were laid from
end of pipe laid in easterly. Cost .

In Magnolia Avenue feet of inch pipe were laid from
Franklin street to Jackson street. Cost .

In Morgan street feet of inch pipe were laid from end
of pipe laid in westerly. Cost .

In Nonotuck street feet of inch pipe were laid from
the end of pipe laid in southerly to Harvard street. Cost
$ .

In Nonotuck street feet of inch pipe were laid from
Harvard street southerly. Cost .

In Norwood Terrace feet of inch pipe were laid from
Cherry street northerly. Cost  .

In Oscar street feet of inch pipe were laid from end
of pipe laid in southerly to property of Ingleside Boat
Club. Cost .

In Queen street feet of inch pipe were laid from
Coit street to King street. Cost .

In Winter street feet of inch pipe were laid from end
of pipe laid in northeasterly to Pequot street. Cost .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

In addition to the hydrants. set on the Smith’s Ferry
line, seven new hydrants were set at cost of located
as follows, viz;—

( At the northeast corner of Amherst and Nonotuck Sts.
( At the northwest corner of Harvard and Cleveland Sts.
( At the northeast corner of Harvard and Nonotuck Sts.
( At the northeast corner of Magnolia and Jackson Sts.
( At the northwest corner of Queen and King Sts.

( At the northeast corner of Nonotuck and Stanford Sts.
( At the southwest corner of Pleasant and Stanford Sts.

One hundred and thirteen new services, making total
length of feet were laid at cost of  and one
hundred and nineteen old services were replaced at cost of
$ .

CONDITION OF THE WATER.

For raw, unfiltered water the quality this year has been
exceptionally good. None of the reservoirs have been shut
off because of the presence of vegetable organisms which
usually abound at one time or another during each year to
Cause annoyance to consumers because of disagreeable odors
and tastes. Monthly reports of tests made by the State Board
of Health show that the water has been uniformly good.

WHITE RESERVOIR.

The work started in on the new storage reservoir in
Southampton was brought to close this year. At noon
November  th, the gates were closed and the water held
back. It is expected that early spring will find the reservoir
full. The expenditure for this work for the year ending November  is as follows:—

For labor of men andteams,  
For tools and supplies, .  
Total cost, Ce 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
WORK AT THE RESERVOIRS.

The further and final extension of the arch and the cleaning
out of the channel at the Rock Cut Canal was not begun
until late in the season when the water in Wright’s Pond had
reached the usual low water mark. As was the case in previous
years considerable material had tumbled into the channel from
the steep overhanging banks and it was necessary to construct
a coffer dam at the mouth of the canal before this material
could be removed. The arch over the canal, built to prevent
said material from sliding into the canal, has been under
construction since and was this season extended to its
westerly terminus where spandrel and end walls, similar to
those at its easterly terminus, were constructed. The length }
of the arch completed this year is feet which makes the total
length of the covered portion of the canal or the arch feet.
The average width of the span is about feet with rise of
  feet. The abutment walls that support the arch are carried
down on both sides to the solid ledge and are feet in width
at the bottom. These abutment walls are of cyclopean masonry,
large field stones and boulders being imbedded in the concrete.
The arch ring was constructed of concrete composed of part
cement, parts sand and parts crushed rock with expanded
metal reinforcing. concrete top and facing has been placed
upon the old dry wall which extends, on both sides of the
canal, from the westerly end of the arch to the shore line

of Wright’s Pond. The length is feet and the walls were
raised to the usual water level in the canal. The amount
expended on this work this year was .

The old gate house at the Wright’s Pond, built as part of

* the original system and which showed the effects of its  
years of service, was this year treated to its necessary repairs
and painted.

A new road way was laid out and nearly completed from
the new entrance on the Westfield road to the new shelter
house on the top of the hill south of the canal. The finishing
touches on this road, the earth filling over the arch to bring it

|
, REPORT OF WATER BOARD
to grade and the riprapping of the sides of the canal from the
westerly end of the arch to the pond remains to be done another
season. |
The principal improvement at the Whiting Street reservoir
| was made in the upper gate house where concrete wall about |
  inches thick was laid up against the inside walls of the well
for the purpose of stopping leakage. This gate house stands
: above ground some feet. The wall which is built of stone
| in cement leaked all over and became frozen mass of ice every |
| winter. The lining wall placed in the well has stopped the
leakage except in one spot which should be treated later when
, the well is empty. concrete floor supported by iron beams
was laid in this house.
RECOMMENDATIONS.
Measures to prevent wanton waste of water and filtration
of the supply are the most urgent requirements of this department. But before filtration is undertaken reduction in the
, consumption should be accomplished. It is impossible to
believe that the amount of water registered by the meters on
| the mains between the hours of p.m. and a. m. is
. actually used. In order to determine what portion of the same
| is used and what portion is waste or leakage through defective
P mains, joints and fixtures would suggest that Pitometer
survey be made of the distribution system. Another measure
| that would tend to prevent wholesale waste of water would be
| the installation of detector meters on the fire service mains
! going into mills and factories and would suggest that start
be made along this line.
Thanking you for your uniform kindness of the past
year, this report is respectfully submitted.
| .
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
| Superintendent.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD og
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR  AS REGIS| TERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.
Consumption in gallons. Daily Average
 per capita.
December,  .
January,  
; February,  
, March,  
April,  
May,  
| June,  
| July,  
| August,  
| September,  
October,  
| November,  
|  
| Largest week, July  th to  th, gallons, or  
gallons per day, per capita.
Smallest week, December  th to  th, gallons,
or gallons per day, per capita. .
Largest day, July  th, gallons, or gallons
Per day, per capita.
Smallest day, May  d, gallons, or gallons
per day, per capita. |
Lt

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED
IN MILLS AND SHOPS FOR YEAR  .

 .

December, Coeee  )  .

January, ... » 
February, . 
March, Cokeee ee.)  
Apri, ... , 
May, ...  ... , 
June, .. toeee. 
July, Coeee ee)  
August, Coe kk
September, Coeee)  
October, . 
November,. .  
Total,  
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED BY

ELEVATORS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES
FOR YEAR  .

 .

December, Coeee ee.)  .

January, .  
February, . 
March, Cooke   
April,  ... ee,  
May, ....   .)  
June, we ee, 
July,  ...  .  
August, . 
September, . 
October, .  
November,.  
Total,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE A.
} Statement of Location, Size and Length of Extensions Made
in  .
Locati 
ation. €& -s
$/ 
Cleveland street from end of pipe laid
in to Yale street,  
Elmwood avenue from end of pipe laid
in westerly,  
Harvard street from end of pipe laid in
  to Nonotuck street  
Harvard street from Nonotuck street
westerly, ,
Hydrants, 
King street from end of pipe laid in
  westerly,  
Lexington avenue from end of pipe laid
in easterly,  
Magnolia avenue from Franklin street
to Jackson street,  
Morgan street from end of pipe laid in
  westerly,  
Nonotuck street from end of pipe laid
in southerly to Harvard street,  
Nonotuck street from Harvard street
southerly,  
Norwood terrace from Cherry street
northerly,  
Oscar street from end of pipe laid in
  southerly,  
Queen street form Coit street southerly,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE A.—Continued.
cla) ol  
. \S) VY \-) 
Location. T
| BS
+, Oo a] 
Smith’s Ferry Road from Kenilworth
Castle to the southerly driveway of
the Holyoke Country Club(temporary), feet inch galvanized pipe, 
Winter street from end of pipe laid in
  to Pequot street,  
Total number of fect,  
Temporary main, fect of inch.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE D.
Summary of Gates Set in  .
Location. No. Size.
Cleveland at Yale Street, feet east of west
line of Cleveland Street, in north line of
Yale Street, (Pratt Cady), .. in.
Dwight at Pine Street, feet north of south
lme of Dwight Street, feet west of
west line of Pine St., (Pratt Cady), in.
Dwight at Bh street, feet inches
north of south line of Dwight street,  
foot west of west line of Bh street,
(Pratt& Cady), .. in.
Dwight at Linden street, feet north of
south line of Dwight street, in east line
of Linden street, (Pratt Cady), in.
Harvard at Nonotuck street, feet inches
south of north line of Harvard street,
  feet west of east line of Nonotuck
street, (Pratt Cady), in.
Magnolia at Franklin street, feet east of
west line of Magnolia street, in south
line of Franklin street, (Pratt Cady),  in. .
Norwood Terrace at Cherry street, feet
  inches east of west line of Norwood
Terrace, in north line of Cherry street, (Pratt& Cady),   in.
Queen at King street, feet inches east
of west line of Queen street, in north line
of King street, (Pratt Cady),. in.
Roosevelt Avenue at Westfield Road, feet
  inches from south end of Bliss shed,  
feet  inches from north end of Bliss shed,
(Smith),   in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location. No. Size.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet north of center
of  culvert above Kenilworth Castle,
  feet inches west of east line of
highway, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet inches north
of Ist culvert north of Old Whiting st.,
Homestead, feet inches east from
face of rock on west side of highway,
(Chapman), . in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet north of center of
the  nd culvert north of the Loomis
summer house, feet west of guard rail,
(Chapman), ..). in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet south of center
of Ist culvert south of the old road and
Street Railway Co. sand bank, feet  
inches cast of east guard rail, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet inches south
of center of  nd culvert north of old rd.,
  feet east of guard rail, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet north of the
| old watering tub, feet west of guard
rail, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet inches south
of line of land between the Street Railway Co. and W. H. Abbott, fect west
of east line of highway, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet inches south
of hydrant north of Abbott Jrs., house,  
fect inches west of east line of highway,
(Chapman),   in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at Cedar Grove, feet
south of north line of Cedar Grove street
  feet west of guard rail, (Chapman), in.
Smith's Ferry Road, feet inches north of

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Location. No. Size.
north line of abutment of culvert south
of where the street railway crosses the
highway, feet inches west of east line

of abutment, (Chapman), .. in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, feet inches east of
east line of Brigg’s old house, feet
north of north line of Brigg’s old house,

(Chapman), ....... in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at Ferry Road, feet  
inches north of north line of Gallivan’s
old house, feet inches east of east

line of Gallivan’s old house, (Chapman, in.
Smith’s Ferry Road, about feet north
of Smith’s Ferry Railroad Station,  
feet inches north of hydrant, feet

east of west line of highway, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at Ruppert’s, feet  
inches east of telephone poles Nos.,
 feet south of telephone pole

No.  (Chapman),. in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at cemetery, feet north
of center of culvert at cemetery, feet
  inches west of west face of abutment,

(Chapman), ... in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at Country Club Driveway, feet north of hydrant, feet east

of hydrant, (Chapman), in.
Ferry Landing Road, feet inches east
of east line of Gallivan’s old house, in
north line of main lineof Gallivan’s old

house, (Chapman), ... in.
Gate for Blow-off near  th culvert south of
Abbott’s factory, feet north of north
wall of culvert on east line of abutment,

(Chapman), ..... in.

| REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location. No. Size.
| Gate for Blow-off near Country Club driveway, feet north of north end of abut| ment wall of bridge, foot inches east
of west line of abutment wall of bridge,
i (Chapman), ........ in.
| Winter at Pequot street, feet west of east
| line of Winter street, in south line of
! Pequot street, (Pratt Cady), .. in.
| GATES FOR HYDRANTS. |
Amherst street at Nonotuck street, feet  
inches east of hydrant, (Water Works
Equipment Co.), Coe, in.
Dwight street, north side at Whiting Ave.,
  feet south of hydrant, (Pratt Cady), in.
Hampden street, at intersection of Prospect
street, feet inches south of hydrant, (Fairbanks), ... in.
| Harvadr at Cleveland street, feet inches
south of hydrant, (Smith), ... in.
| High at Franklin street, feet inches east
! of hydrant, (Pratt Cady), Looe, in.
John at Front street, feet east of the
hydrant, (Pratt Cady), in.
Main at Dwight street, southwest corner,  
! feet inches east of the hydrant, (Pratt
| Cady,  ... in.
Pleasant at Stanford street, feet inches
east of the hydrant, (Water Works
Equipment Co.), Ce, in.
Queen at King street, feet east of the
hydrant, (Pratt Cady), Lo in.
Race at Hamilton street, foot inches
west of the hydrant, (Pratt Cady), in.
Summer at Jackson street, feet east of the
hydrant, (Pratt Cady), in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location. No. Size.
: Smith’s Ferry Road at Kenilworth Castle,  
feet north of the hydrant, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at Old Whiting street
Homestead, feet inches west of the
hydrant, (Chapman), .. in.
Smith’s Ferry Road near Abbott’s Factory,
  feet inches west of the hydrant,
(Chapman), .. ..... in.
Smith’s Ferry Road near Abbott, Jr’s. house
  feet west of the hydrant, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road north of Brigg’s old
house, feet inches east of the hydrant,
(Chapman), .. in.
Smith’s Ferry Road opposite School House,
  feet east of the hydrant, (Chapman),. in.
Smith’s Ferry Road north of Gallivan’s
Green House, feet inches east of the
hydrant, (Chapman), re in.
Smith’s Ferry Road north of Collin’s House,
  feet east of the hydrant, (Chapman),. in.
Smith’s Ferry Road about feet north of
Barney’s house, feet east of the hydrant
(Chapman), ..... in.
Smith’s Ferry Road near Ruppert’s house,  
feet inches east of the hydrant,
(Chapman), .... in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at Yenlin’s house, feet
  inches east of the hydrant, (Chapman), in.
Smith’s Ferry Road at Country Club Driveway, feet east of the hydrant, (Chapman),  in.
Smith's Ferry Landing Road, south side,
  feet north of the hydrant, (Chapman), in.
Total, in.; in.; in.; in.
Total,  .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE F.
| Summary of Hydrants Set in  .
 
Location (Corner or Side) and Make i
 /.E E
wt ed
Amherst and Nonotuck streets, north east corner,
(Holyoke)  
Harvard and Cleveland streets, northwest corner,
(Holyoke)  
Harvard and Nonotuck streets, northeast corner,
(Holyoke)  
Magnolia avenue and Jackson street, northwest
corner, (Holyoke)  
Pleasant and Stanford streets, southwest corner,
(Holyoke)  
Queen at King street, west side, (Holyoke)  
Stanford and Nonotuck streets, northeast corner,
(Holyoke)  
Smith’s Ferry road, near Abbott’s Factory, east side,
(Holyoke)  
“Ferry road, near Abbott Jr’s. house east side,
(Holyoke)  
“Ferry road, feet north of Barney house,
west side, (Holyoke)  
““ Ferry road, north of Briggs old house, west side,
(Holyoke)  
“ Ferry road, north of Collins house, west side,
(Holyoke) aa |
*“* Ferry road, at Country Club Driveway, west side,
(Holyoke)  
“Ferry road, at Gallivan Green House, west side,
(Holyoke)  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE F.—Continued.
vis|g
 
Location (Corner or Side) and Make wlele
a  
Whiting Street road, opposite Kenilworth Castle,
(Holyoke)  
Smith’s Ferry Landing road, south side, (Holyoke)  
** Ferry road, near Ruppert’s house, west side,
(Holyoke)  
“* Ferry road, opposite School house, west side,
(Holyoke) l
“* Ferry road, at old Whiting Street homestead,
east side, (Holyoke)  
“* Ferry road, at Yenlin’s house, west side,

(Holyoke)  
a
Total,  aha
a

OG |
po
| |
|
| REPORT OF WATER BOARD
, |
. !
;
 :
to!
| TABLE F.—Continued.
| TO lg
|  
Hydrants Replaced. ete
bathed aa
| Allyn at Howard street, (Holyoke)  
(Replaces  -inch single Pratt Cady)
Ely street near West street, (Holyoke)  
. (Replaces  -inch, single (Holyoke)
John at Front street, (Holyoke) l
| (Replaces  -inch double (Matthew)
| Race street, feet north of Sargeant street,
! (Holyoke)  
, Replaces  -inch single (Holyoke)
Winter street, east side, feet north of Appleton
street, (Holyoke)  
| Replaces  -inch double (Chapman) |
| Total,  
I
I,

|
|
|
REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
 -inch, one out .......  ... ce    ee  -inch, two outs  ...  ... cc          OF
B-inch, two OUtS ......    ees  
G-inch, two Outs  ...  ... ce     es  
G-inch, three outs ........  ...      
G -inch, one Out ...         -inch, three outs .......  
Cistern  ... ett eens  
Total o.  ...       
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CITY
OUTSIDE CITY HYDRANTS, TO DATE.
  stand pipe outs.
  single hydrants.
  double hydrants.
  triple hydrants.
  four-arm hydrants.
  cellar hydrant.
  mills using pertorated pipe sprinklers.
  mills using automatic sprinklers.
  fire pumps at mills.
  tank containing gallons.
  tank containing gallons.
  tanks containing gallons each.
  tanks containing gallons.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
METERS IN USE.

  

halal abel el

Make SE ).  |). /). /. /. ). )

woo cw IN fw

' ma it  c
Crown,  
Empire, 
Gen, 
Hersey,   
Keystone,  
King,  
Lambert, 
Nilo,  
Thomson, 
Trident, 
Trident Compound,  )
Union, 
Worthington,  
Ge

!
Total, ule sro ss

a

)

|

d

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

TABLE I. |

, METERS ON HAND.
CROWN.
NO.

Pinch ....   eet   X
Pinch oo...   een  
Sinch o.oo.    ececcecc s  
Pinch oo...  nee  
Pinch oo...      
Qinch oo.      c .  
Pinch  ...   
Qinch oo. cc   ce   tc eve  .  
Linch ...  ...     
Linch  ...  een  
Linch ...  ...   ees  
Dinch  ...  ...    
Linch ...  ...    
Dinch ....  ...    
Lk inch oo...      
Z inch .........  ...    inch ....  ... eae  
Z inch ....    

ee  

EMPIRE.

ST  
Pinch .......  ...   
Finch  ...   ,  
Pinch oo...   een  
Qinch oo...         ,  
Ziinch ....  ...         
Qinch      ec ,  
TB inch        : inch ....   

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HERSEY.
NO.
Pinch  ... eens  
Pinch  ... te   eens  
Pinch  ... ..       ees  
Pinch  ...    teens  
Finch ......  ... ec     ees  
Pinch  ...   eens  
Zinch ...  ...     
Pinch  ... eens  
Finch .......  cc   te tet    
Ll oinch  ... ce   
Z  inch  ...ee    
Z  inch ...ees inch .....ee  ees  
Binh  ...ee  
KEYSTONE.
  inch  ... ...eens  
KING.
S inch  ...  eens  
Sinch  ...  ...     ees  
Binch  ... ce eens  
Binch  ...    tent nenee  
Sinch  ...tee   ae  
Zinch  ...  ... cc       eens  
Pinch ........        ence ees  
Binch  ...  teens  
S inch  ...ee     
Sinch  ... ce      
LAMBERT.

B inch .......  ...     ete    
Sinch  ...     eens inch  ... ce     
Pinch  ...   eens  
Ziinch  ...teen eens  
Lo oinch  ... ..    eens  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
THOMSON.
NO.
Finch .......         ees  
TRIDENT. .
finch ......   .  
Pinch oo...  ees  
} inch .....  ...   
Winch ..  ...  inch ....  ce    
UNION. 

Wbiinch ... oe      
Wd inch ....  ...   
WORTHINGTON.

Sinch ....  ...  eens  
Sinch ...  ...      
Pinch ..  ... een  
finch .....      
Sinch ...  ...eae  
Zinch o.oo    cesec . inch oo... ce      
Sinch       ccev  
Zinch ... ec   
Pinch ...  ... ce   inch  ...    
Qinch ...    cc ec     cseees  
inch ...  ...ees inch ...  ...   ees inch ... ke        
Z inch ..  ...     
Lo inch  ... ei     inch ...    
Ll inch .......  ...      inch ..........  

  inch ......  ...     
lo oinch ........  ... teeee    
Loainch oo. eens  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
WORTHINGTON—Continued NO
L inch ....      
Lo oinch  ...   eens  
| Linch  ...  ene  
Loiinch ... ec   
Lo oinch ... ec   
Lo oinch  ... eens  
Lo oinch wo... ec   oinch  ... ees inch  ... ees inch ... s inch ..... ce ees  
l inch .....  
Lo inch  ...ee ees  
Lo inch ... ne inch ... oe ees inch ....   
Waiinch ....    inch ...     
TZ inch oo... ce   
Whiinch ...      
Wbiinch oo... cc   inch  ...   ees inch ..... ce     inch Loic       inch ...........  ce         : inch  ...      od  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE J.

Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Rated.
Art studio  ...     cence   
Automobiles...  ...     cc   
Automobile stations ............ .-c ecceu  
Automatic dampers ..........        
Awning manufacturers ............. e  
Bakeries o.oo      ueuu  
Barber shops .....   ecucucuceues  
Band room ....  ... cc     cusecusees l
Banks  ... occ cc        eueuueuseueens  
Baths oo... occ   ctce .  
Baths, extra  ...    ce cucecueueuees  
Beer pumps ...........   ce cu s  
Beer bottlers  ...  g.      cence een cess  
Blacksmith and carriage shops ............... :. l]
Boarding houses ...........  c  sees  
Board of trade ...  ...      ces  uee  
Boiler shop ...... ...    ce   s  
Boilers    ce cecceveuevees  
Bonded warehouse ............ . ecucceueues  
Box shop...      uet  
Bowling alleys:........  leveu  
Brass foundry ......-..  ececsu  
Broom manufactories ...........   ecc .  
Brick yard o.oo        eve  ]
Business college ..     v vees  
Carbonaters ..   cc cc  cc ceveeses   
Cattle   ec   
Cement block works ..........- c .  
Cement pipe works ......-..     
Cemeteries        cc trer ce.  
a  
Church organs ec  vv ]
Cigar manufactories ..........--  Lecce    

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Club houses ...........   nee  
Club rooms ....  ...   es  
Cold storage plant  ...  ...     
Coal and wood yards...........       
Compressed air pumps ............   aeus  
Convents  ...     es  
CreamerieS  ...teeny  
Dentists ..... ce  eens  
Dressmakers ........ ...  cocci ae  
Drug stores  ... fee   
Dye works ...........      ees  
Electric car sprinkler...  ...     
Electric car hydrants ...  ...  ...     
Elevators, piston...  ...    :  
Engines  ...  cc      eens  
Express company ........    nent eens  
. Families ..  ...  ...       
Fountain and rotary sprinkler .... .............  
Furniture ware rooms ............    ences  
Gas holder ....   ]
Gate house, H. W. P. Co...  
Glazed paper works ...........  ...    es  
Green houses .........        ne  
Grist mills  ... ce tenes  
Gymnasiums .........     
Hair dressers ... cen ees  
Halls  ... cc  
Harness works ..  ... cc    ees  
Horses  ... eens  
Hose  ...ences  ar  
Hotels  ene as  
Hydraulic press ..  ...    
Ice dealers  ...   
Tron works  ... ete es  
Knitting works ..  ...   eens  
Laundries  ...   ees  
Lithographers ..  ...  ...     

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Livery stables ....  ...    teens  
Locomotives ..........    cet eens  
Lodging rooms ............. ce     teenies  
Log cabin  ...       eens  
Lumber yards ........   ce  ees  
Machine shops .......... ...    cence teens  
Meat markets ..............     eens  
Millinery parlors ...........     eens  
Motors .....       tenes  
Mould coolers ..........  ... ce   ene nee  
Municipal milk station ...............    I
OF  
Parks  ...   cc  etn nen en    
Passenger and freight depots ................  
Photo studios ..........  ...       eens  
Planing mills  ...  ...   
Plating works .......  ...      ene ft  
Playgrounds ............   tees  
Plumbers ...... .....  ... cect   cence   enee  
Pool rooms .........  ... cc teen ees  
Printing offices ...  ... occ  
Public bath rooms .............       
Public drinking fountains .................-  
Public reading rooms ..............       
Public sanitaries ...........  ...       
Rag shops ............      ees  
Restaurants ...  ...  ...   cette    
Road rollers .......  ...   eens  
Round houses ............  ...   eens  
Rotary washers ...........   cence eens  
Sausage manufactories .................     
School houses .............    eens  
NS) S:  
Slaughter house .............  tenes ]
Soda bottlers...  ...   
Soda fountains .......... ..  ...    eens  

|
|
|
! REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Stand pipes  ...  ts  
! Steam and gas fitters...  ...    
| Steam stone polishing ...............   ;
Stone crusher ........       eens :
, Stone yards  ...  ...   :
: StOPeS          eens :
{ Storchouses ..  ...       een  :
— Street sprinkling carts ....... .....     se .
/ Tailor shops  ...     
} Tanks for glasses ...  cc      |
, Telephone exchange ............ een :
Theaters  ncn ene en nes :
Tin shops  ...   ec     es |
Tumbler washers ..........    eens»  
Undertakers  ...       HU |
Urinals   eens  
, Vacuum water cleaners ...............- ... qT |
| Vegetable sprinklers...  ...  l
- Veterinary hospitals ..  ...    Wading pools  ... ce nee |
Water closets ..  ...    ees |
! Water closets, extra  ... ce ees  
! Water Power Co.  ...    
| Watering troughs  ...  ...    ll
| Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Metered.
Almshouse ...... ..     
Alpaca Mills...    
Auger Bit Works .......   
Automatic dampers ...........       
Automobiles ......   ees  
Automobile stations  ...  
| Bakery  ... bei
Barber shops  ...  ...    
Bar works  ... )

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Baths cc ecsesereerees  
Beer bottling...   veeeuees  
Beer pumps   coco        .  
Belt shops     ee.  
Blacksmith shop .... -  cce  .  
Blanket mill  ...  ceccecvecsesees  I
Bach and dye tanks    
Bo: Binding  ...       ec s  
ers Soo vtutevertcsesevesetresseesees  
Boller Shops  ce s ssessreesreese  
PPS foundry    cece tcc    
B.. Window furnishing...  ...    ]
Cott manufacturing ... 
CReMical laboratories  ...  teen  
Che MS   etree  
Cig CR OrgaMS    
Cy Mall ene  
Cue TOOMS  ...       eens  
Cole Storage plants ............  ...      
Cop Ted COttOMee  
C.. Pressed air pumps .....  ...     .  
G Mdensers  ...      
GC MVents    
G. ‘ton mills...  ... ec    
G. ‘ton thread and twine manufactories ............  
"abbing machines ............-.      ]
Ttimping machines ...  
Bay roll manufactory  ...     
DP Tests oes  
DP mestic science     
TF OPES vente    
Tying kilns  ...    
ee  
lectric car station...      eve cve eve  . ]
Electric light station    
Electric power stations ...... ec  ce  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Electrotyping ..........        nees  
Elevators, by piston .............         
Elevators, by motor .............           
Engines ........    eet   een eens  
Envelope manufactory ...............     
Express company ............-     nees  
Families  ... ce     ees  
Filters    tencenes  
Fire engine houses .............       ees  
Fountains  ... oe ce   eens  
Gas works ..  ...       eens  
Gas holders ..  ...  ...   ce   ees  
Glazed paper works ..........    eens  
Green house ....  ... ecteenies  
Grindstones ...  ...  ...   cc eens  
Gymnasiums ...........     teens  
Halls  ...   een    
Horses  ... ce        
Hose       nes  
Hospitals  ...  ...  en ees  
Hotels  ...   nes  
Home for aged people ........  ... ...      
Hot water boilers ....  ...  ... cc   nes  
Hydraulic press ..  ...  ... ce    
Hygienic drinking fountains .................-.-  
Tron foundries ...  ...  ...     eet eens  
Job printing  ...  ...  eens  
Laundries  ...  ...eens  
Livery stables ..  ...       
Lodging rooms ........  ...    neces  
Lumber yards .........  ...    nee 
Machine shops ........    eeneen   
Mattress works ..  ...    eens  
Meat markets ....  ...        eens  
Motors ....  ...        eens  
Nursery  ...          eens  
Offices  ...     eens  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Opera houses  ence cence ne nes  
Paper machines .........   veversee  
Paper mills  .   vec ces QT
Paper pad manufactories .........  ... -c  ec ece.  
peseMBer depot...     ce vv  
MAB mills...       
Plumber, ence nee tentence eens  
mish manufactory c  ,  
dice court   en      eens  
ost Office    
OK Packing houses  ...       
pant Machines ......    eet nts Q
Publ fF PUMPS 
Publ; Oath houses...  ...    
Put; Path rooms ..---      
Publ wDrarY es  
Re HG sanitary...     
Re LIMB FOOMS       
Ro AMFAMt    
Salty Washers... es  
Sc Col houses .........  ees  
Se om Plate works  ...  
Gy ling wax manufactory ........  ...    
RK mills occ  
g. Being machines .....     
qe tubs ote 
s.  tanks ... ence tent        
Gq ta bottling...    
gta fountains  ...  
gh Taying machines ....  ...      
g) Ting bed manufactory ..........-- -. seen  
gam and gas fitters  ...    
q caming machines ...  ...     
‘eam pump manufactory .........+-   ees  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Steam stone cutting .........  ...      ]

Stone yard ..  ...     en eens l

StOFES    eens  

Tanks for glasses .........  ...   eens  

Tailor shops .......  ...       tenes  

Testing flume ..........       eens  

Telegraph offices ..  ...  ... cc     eens  
Tissue paper manufactory ..............   
Tumbler washers ............    eens  

Urinals  ... cnet eens |
Water closets ........        cence .
Water wheel governors .............     

Water rolls for wire ......  ...       

Wire mills  ...  ...  ete  

Wire weaving ...........       eens  
Woolen mills...  ...   ees REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE OF RAINFALL IN INCHES AT THE SEVERAL
RESERVOIRS FOR  .
ee
Ashley Fomer High Whiting
. Service Street
Ponds Reservoir .
Reservoir Reservoir
ee onanaoDeeQV—Qw    
nivary,  
M ary,  
Anes  
We  
Jun?  
Ila  
Ae y,  
Se Sus,  
O tember,  
Ny. Cber,  
Db,’ ember,  
“Cember,  
Total 
'

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HEIGHT OF WATER AT WHITING STREET RESERVOIR,  .

December  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,

  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet  

inch. |
January  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,

  feet inches;  th, feet inch. :
February  rd, feet inch;  th, feet;  th, feet  

inches;  th, feet inches.
March  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  

feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
April  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, ,

feet inches;  th, feet inches.
May  th, feet inches; llth, feet inches;  th, L

feet inches;  th, feet inches.

June Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, feet

  inches;  nd, feet inch;  th, feet inches.
July  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  

feet inches;  th, feet inches. .
August  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,

  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet  

inches. ,
September  th, feet inches;  th feet inches;  st,

  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
October  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,

  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
November  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,

  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet  

inches.
Average height for year, feet inch.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY PONDS  .

December  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches.

January  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

February  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inch.

March  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inch;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet.

April  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.

May  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.

June Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, feet
  inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

July  th, feet;  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches.

August  rd, feet inches;  th, feet;  th, feet  
inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet inches.

September  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  st  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.

October  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, feet
  inches;  th, feet inches.

November  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

Average height for year, feet inches.

Height of overflow, feet inches.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Table showing overflow at Ashley Ponds and Whiting Street
Reservoir During the year  .
Ashley Ponds Whiting Street
Month  Rain- Overflow Rain- Overflow
fall in in fall in in
Inches Gallons {Inches Gallons.

January  
February  
March   April  
May , 
June  
July  
August  
September  
October |
November  
December  

Total sro
Total from both reservoirs gallons.
Total run off from Fomer water shed for year,  gals.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE
WATER WORKS, NOVEMBER .
sPelation, water Department census of .
WV, Of construction,  .
wt owned by the city.

"TCe of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage
T€servoir, three and one-half miles from the city, two
Mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the southWest branch of the Manhan river—intake and storage

M Te€servoirs at Southampton and Westhampton.

Ode of supply—gravity.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
FINANCIAL.
Receipts.
A. Water rates, fixed ................... 
B. Water rates, metered .................  
C. Total receipts from water.............. 
D. Service pipe...  ...           
E. Sale of bonds ..........  ...     
F. All other sources .....................  
G. Gross receipts .................+.+.-.. 
H. Cash balance, December  ........  
| 
Expenditures. :

AA. Management and repairs ... coe ec 
BB. Services and repairs ...................  
CC. Running expenses for .............. 
DD. Interest on bonds .....................  
EE. Total maintenance .................... 
FF. City of Holyoke, taxes ................  
GG. Bonds ............   es  
HH. Transfers ...........  eens  
IT. Materials, labor, etc. ............... ..  
JJ. Cash on hand and in banks ............  
KK. Balance to construction ...............  
$ 

REPORT OF WATER.BOARD  
CONSTRUCTION. Balance .................. -. .$ 
LL. Extension main pipe .......  }
MM. Hydrants................. ,
NN. Reservoirs ................  
OO. Meters ................... |
 PP. Shop.................  
: ————- 
QQ. Depreciation, percent ...............  
RR. Net cost of works to date ..............  
SS. Bonded debt .........................  
W. Value of sinking funds, Nov.  ...  
CONSUMPTION. |
|  Population,  Water Dept. census ....  Population on line of pipe, Water Dept.
CENSUS ..    Population supplied, Water Dept. census.  Total gallons consumed for year .........  Passed through meters Al’..............
 Passed through meters ican      Average daily consumption, gallons ......  Gallons per day to each inhabitant ......  Gallons per day to each consumer .... Gallons per day to service tap ..........—  
; DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrough and cast iron ,
 and lead lined.
 From one-half inch to thirty inches.
 Extended, feet large.
 Discontinued ..............  ...   none
 Mains,  -inch and upward ................ miles
 Temporary mains, less than  inches........ miles
 Total length of distribution................ miles
 Number of leaks in city,  In Fomer line,
NONE...  ... ees  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
 Cost of repairs per mile................... Hydrants added....................-  Hydrants now in use (public) and  
private hydrants (see Table G).
 Hydrants frozen................. Hydrants repaired.................-.. ,
 Hydrants replaced................  |
 Stop gates added.........................  Stop gates now in use (see foot of Table E)  Stop gates less than  -inch................  Number of blow-off gates.................  Range of pressure on main at office, per day
and night, to pounds.
Main street, per day and night, to  
pounds. :
 Stand pipes in use................... Gates repaired...........  ... ce    Gates replaced.............. cc     none
 Gates taken out.............-.    none
SERVICE.
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, cast iron,
lead lined, tin lined and galvanized.
 From  to  -inch size of service.
 Leaks........  ... ene  Cleaned and repaired.....................  Frozen services thawed out................  Replaced services............ eae  Extended............................... feet
 Discontined ..........  ...   ees  Total now in use (estimated) .............. feet
 Services added................. oe  Number now in use................  Average leng th of service ................. feet
.... {All sizes Average cost of service in  ...... of to  in.
: ....Unel’sive Meters added.................. ....  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  Meters discontinued......................  Meters repaired...............    Meters now in use..................  Indicators on elevators and organs.........  Service boxes repaired....................  Water shut off...............   Water turned on................ Leaks—faucets,  water closets,  ...  Leaks repaired—faucets,  water closets,
 ...   Valves sealed in mills...................-.  Seals broken in’mills.:....:...............  
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO
NOVEMBER .
Water Commissioners for Construction of the Work Elected
by the Town of Holyoke. .
William B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February .
John Delaney, elected March term expired
February .
John E. Chase, elected March term expired  .
Dennis Higgins, elected March term expired
February }
Joel Russell, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .
J. P. Buckland, Clerk of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .
L. P. Bosworth, successor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February 
C. W. Ranlet, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer. |
Engineers and Superintendents for Construction of Works.
Messrs. Shedd and Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting
engineers. .
E. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Davis Ellsworth, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis
May,  So
Moses Stevens, pipe inspector.
Water Commissioners Elected by the City Council.
J. P. Buckland, elected: February term expired
February .
Dennis Higgins, elected February term expired
January i
James G. Smith, elected February deceased
July a, ,
J. A. Sullivan, elected February term. expired
January a
James F. Allyn, elected February term expired
January |
C. H. Heywood, elected July term expired
January !
Timothy Merrick, elected January term expired
Januaryof :
Maurice Lynch, elected January term expired
January |
James E. Delaney, elected January resignation
accepted January mo :
Moses Newton, elected January term expired
January 
James J. Curran, elected January resignation
accepted February an
Martin P. Conway, elected January term expired ,
January  
Charles D. Colson, elected January term expired
February .
John J. Sullivan, elected January term expired
February .
-Thomas F. Greaney, elected January term ex-
pired February .
Joseph A. Skinner, elected January term expired  |
February |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Maurice Lynch, elected January deceased January .

Arthur M. French, elected February term expired
February .

Hugh McLean, elected January term expired
February .

Michael J. Doyle, elected January term expired
February ,
Thomas J. Carmody, elected January oo
Jesse E. Sheldon, elected January .

Thomas J. Lynch, elected January .
Officers of the Holyoke Water Works.

Moses Stevens, Superintendent, appointed February  ,
 term expired April resigned.

Daniel Heywood, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October sucded by E. M. Bolton.

E. M. Bolton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned. |

E. P. Clark, Registrar, appointed July resigned —
January Se

J. C. Sullivan, Registrar, appointed January ;
resigned January .

A. E. Pickup, Registrar, appointed February .

John D. Hardy, Superintendent, appointed May ;
term expired April ,

John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent, appointed May  ,
 .

E. M. Bolton, Inspector, appointed July service
terminated March .

James F. Cleary, Inspector, appointed March .

Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector, appointed March .

Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, appointed October .

Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector, appointed October .

Daniel F. Cray, Inspector, appointed October .

REPORT OF THE
 Department of Police
OFFICE OF THE CITY MARSHAL.
: Holyoke, Mass.,; December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of the City
of Holyoke:

Gentlemen:—In compliance with the City Ordinance, I
have the honor herewith to submit for your consideration the
annual report of the department for the year ending November
  .

ORGANIZATION. |
The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal,
Captain, Lieutenant, five Sergeants, three Inspectors and
fifty-six Patrolmen, two of whom are detailed in the office.
ROOSTER OF THE FORCE,  
Name Rank Date of Appointment
Thomas J. Lynch, Marshal, May 
Patrick Herbert, Asst. Marshal, January 
Timothy Haley, Captain, February 
Patrick E. Sullivan, Lieutenant, January 
Dennis Mack, Sergeant, May 
William E. Blackmer, ‘“ January 
George L. Dickinson,  February 
John J. Moriarty, ‘s February 
Patrick F. Ryan, January 

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Name Rank Date of Appointment
Peter A. Cullen, Inspector, February 
Frank R. Metcalf, February 
Maurice M. O’Connor,  June  :
John A. Powers, House Duty, January 
Cornelius Curran,February 
Richard Peters, Patrolman, January 
Thomas F. Riley, January 
Michael J. Lynch, January 
Francis H. Hastings,  January 
John A. Geran,  January 
James B. Griffin, February 
Jeremiah J. Lennehan, ‘s February 
John A. Vachon,  June 
James T. Donoghue, June 
Rock H. Lalonde, June 
Thomas Bresnahan, June 
Maurice H. Shine, ‘s August 
Henry M. Fisher, August 
Daniel C. McCarthy, “s September 
Richard E. Lowcock, March 
William J. Carey, February 
Michael Driscoll, “co February 
Peter J. Manning, February 
Patrick J. Kennedy,  February 
Walter E. Murray,  May 
Edward F. Gilday, July 
James Malcolm, July 
Patrick J. Driscoll, “s July 
Thomas J. Rourke, July 
Patrick J. Gaughan,  July 
Andre J. Senay,  March 
Albert Mew, June 
John J. O’Donnell,  June 
Maxwell McDowell, August 
James T. Welch, January 
John J. Grady, ‘s January 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Name Rank Date of Appointment
Henry Sussenguth, October 
Michael J. Clifford,  February 
Medric Beloin, February 
John E. Goss,  March 
George W. O’Connell,  April 
Michael J. Prendergast, October 
John J. Austin, May 
Michael J. Fogarty,  May 
Timothy J. Mannix, February 
George E. Leary, June 
Fredrick W. Kuenzel, ‘s June 
William A. Morgan,  June 
Timothy J. Murphy, September 
Michael J. Walsh, ‘s December 
Joseph A. Landry, December 
Michael J. Herlihy,  April 
James J. Tisdall, April 
John T. Quinn, “s April 
Albert M. Albin, April 
Garrett Bowler,  April 
Patrick J. Falvey, April 
Joseph P. Kane, June  |
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Matron, April  |
William C. Bessett, Reserve Officer, January 
James J. Fitzgerald,  January  ,
Thomas E. Powers, January 
Arthur J. Standen, ‘e ““ December 
George Hickson, October  |
Patrick J. Sullivan, October 
Joseph A. Champagne,  October 
Roger P. Coffey, April 
Michael J. Ginley, “e April 
Edward P. Ash, April 
Archibald R. G. Fletcher,  April 
John F. Moriarty, April 
Charles G. Leonard, April  |

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
Total number of arrests,  
Males,  
Females,  
ARRESTS WERE MADE FOR THE FOLLOWING
OFFENCES.

Abandonment, Oo  
Abuse female child,  
Assault and Battery,  
Assault with dangerous weapon,  
Assault on an officer,  
Attempt to break and enter,  
Attempt to commit larceny,  
Bastardy,  
Being present at an unlawful game, 
Being present at gaming on the Lord’sday, ss  
Bigamy, 
Breaking and entering,a:
Breach of the peace,  
Carrying dangerous weapon, Co  
Contempt of Court,  
Cruelty to animals, ,
Delinquent child, ——  
Desertion,  
Dipsomania,  
Drunkenness,  
Fornication,  
Fugitive from justice,  
Gaming,  
Gaming on the Lord’s day,  
Indecent exposure,  
Keeping disorderly house,  
Keeping gaming house,  
Larceny,  
Lewd and lacivious cohabitation,  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Manslaughter,  
Malicious mischief,  
Neglected child,  
Non-support,  
Operating steam boiler without license,  
Practicing medicine without being registered,  
Peddling without license,  
Receiving stolen goods,  
Stubbornness,  
Stoning Railroad train,  
Sureties of the peace,  
Truancy,  
Using false scales,  
Using false measures,  
Unlawfully taking team,  
Unnatural and lacivious act,  
Violation of city ordinance,  
Violation park ordinance,  
Violation traffic ordinance,  
Violation of labor law,  
Violation of Automobile law,  
Violation of the pure food law, |
Violation oleomargerine law, |
Violation rules Board of Health,  
Vagrancy, 
Walking on Railroad track,  
| |
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Appealed,  
Bound over to the Superior Court,  
Committed to the House of Correction,  
Committed to the House of Correction, for non-payment
of fines,  
Committed to the State Farm at Bridgewater, |
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory,  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Committed to the Lyman School,  
Committee to the Hampden County Truant School,  
Committed to the State Board of Charity,  
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory, at Sherborn,  
Discharged,  
Dismissed,  
Fined and paid,  
Noll-prossed,  
Placed on file,  

. Probated and discharged,  
Probated and placed on file,  
Released,  
Committed to the State Hospital for Dipsomaniacs,

Foxboro,  
Committed to the Industrial School, Shirley,  
NUMBER OF PERSONS ARRESTED EACH MONTH.
December, 
January, 
February, 
March, 
April, 
May,  
June, 
July, 
August, 
September, 
October, 
November, 
,  
AGES. |
Under years, and under  and under 
|

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
  and under  oe ABD |
  and under  ae to QTG
  and under  ot |
  and under 
-  
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED. .
America, |
Austria, |
Belgium,  
Canada, |
Denmark, |
England, |
France,  
Germany, |
Gre,  
'  Treland, |
Italy, |
Norway, Lo, |
New Foundland,  
Portugal,  
Poland,  
Russia,  
Scotland,  
Sweden, 
Turkey,  
: Wales,  
|  
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY THE
POLICE. ,
Number of Children found and restored to parents,  
Number of meals furnished prisoners,  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured,  
Number of dead bodies found,  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Number of fire-alarms given,  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms,  
Number of defective fire-alarm boxes reported,  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted,  
Number of stray teams taken up,  
Number of street lamps reported not lighted,  
Number of arrests for other cities,  
Number of warrants for liquor served,  )
Number of bicycles reported stolen amd not recovered,  ]
Number of bicycles reported stolen amd recovered,  
Number of bicycles found and returmed to owners,  
Number of safe doors found open,  
Number of dogs shot,  
Number of defective sidewalks reported,  
Number of defective catch-basins reported,  
Number of insane persons cared for,  
Number of notices serwed,  
Value of stolen property, 
Value of property recovered, 
Amount of money reported stolen, 
Amount of money recovered, 
REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT
FOR THE YEAR  
Number of women arrested,  
OFFENCES WITH WHICH "THEY WERE CHARGED.
Abandonment, I
Assault and battery 
Bigamy,  
Drunkenness, 
Fornication, :
tare disorderly house,  
’ .
Lewd and lacivious cohabitation,

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Neglected child,  
Receiving stolen goods,  
Stubbornness,  
Vagrancy, |
Violation oleomargerine law,  
Walking railroad track, l

.  

, DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Appealed,  

Bound over to the Superior Court, ]
Committed to the House of Correction,  
Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment of

fines,  
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory, at Sherborn,  
Committed to the State Board of Charity,  
Discharged,  
Dismissed,  
Fined and paid,  
Noll prossed,  
Placed on file,  
Probated and discharged,  
Released,  

 

In addition to the number of women arrested have cared
for sixteen women and girls, of this number three were committed to the Northampton State Hospital for Insane. Seven
were lodgers for the night, and six detained for witnesses or
other reasons.

I again thank the Marshal, Superior Officers and the members of the force for their courteous assistance to me throughout
the year.

Respectfully submitted,
KATE MOYNIHAN,
Matron.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
THE FOLLOWING IS THE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL
SYSTEM.

Duty calls from patrolmen,  

Telephone calls,  

Wagon calls, days,  

Wagon calls, nights,  

Miles run,  

FINANCIAL REPORT.

Total appropriation, 

Receipts from Police Court,  

Receipts from Hampden County,  

Receipts from all other sources,  

$ 

EXPENDITURES.

Pay roll, 

Miscellaneous expenses,  

Balance unexpended,  

$ 

In compliance with provision of the Charter, respectfully recommend an appropriation for the ensuing vear of
$ .

ITEMS.

Appropriation, 

Estimated receipts,  

$ 

Pay roll, 

Miscellaneous expenses,  

$ 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.

Patrolman, Michael Shine, was placed on the pension roll

June appointed April .
APPOINTED.

Michael J. Herlihey, was appointed patrolman, April
  .

James J. Tisdall, was appointed patrolman, April .

John T. Quinn, was appointed patrolman, April .

Albert M. Albin, was appointed patrolman, April .

Garrett Bowler, was appointed patrolman, April .

Patrick J. Falvey, was appointed patrolman, April  ,
 .

Joseph P. Kane, was appointed patrolman, June  ,
 :

POLICE STATION AND SIGNAL SYSTEM.

I respectfully call the attention of vour Honorable body
to the urgent necessity of providing the Police Department of
your city with new and up-to-date Police Building where
adequate and sanitary quarters could be provided for the

officers and suitable Lock-up and detention room for persons
* under arrest or detention. |
I would also ask your Honorable body to take favorable
action on the installation of the Gamwell or some other up-to
, date Police Signal System, our present system is unsatisfactory
and faulty in every respect.
Respectfully submitted, }
PATRICK HERBERT,
Assistant Marshal.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
Overseers of the Poor
RELIEF DEPARTMENT

To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen:

In accordance with the charter and revised ordinance of
the City, the Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit their
thirty-eighth annual report, it being for the fiscal year ending
November .

The number of persons aided during the year was  ,
representing families, at an expense of .

The department also furnished burial for bodies, at an
expense of ,

The total expense for the year for all classes of partial and
full support, has been as follows:

City, outdoor poor, 
City, sick at hospital,  
City, burials,  
————— 
State, outdoor poor, 
State, sick at hospital,  
State, burials,  
———— §M, 
Cities and towns, outdoor poor, 
Cities and towns, sick at hospital,  
Cities and towns, burials,  
—————— 
Overseers of the Poor, 
Salaries,  
——-— 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
City Farm,  
Total expense, 
:  RECEIPTS.
Appropriation, 
Receipts from all sources,  
Additional appropriation, :
} ————  |
Following is detailed statement of expenses outside of
the City Farm: |
. |
!

| ZOYReege ety g
  nx RF EB a
er  FE YF -— wp BG
  Tr ps rT oe Ff fF  F
 @® |;  Pt, BF  Spo fF of bE PF go PE PF oS
  |i of og od Po Po PE Eg
popoi PoE Ed Ep GE! y
S/SEERERS SRE RE! Gromer S
.  . jawed ;
Se SAS SSSSESRREI. tr
ee es
|  SSRSESLERESEE Rent
e|/s S&S SSS SRBSSB  
Cia ew  suc 
o/S& Si ane STS Fuel 
&!| S$: $B SRES Ss
Ss a
S/S Sean  EF]  Shcsand B
elssexzssxypgsagae Clothing 
im —j
  pm —- te
B)/ RSS SPSSRSII Sa Medicine O
| o/&  SAGs sR FZ  )
Fe}  os a
  on  Ke eo keg pe} Cities and Towns s
slesesseeseneeg| |
 : ed .
Phere SRB] hema,  
geliie gese a
| ep!
ox) Telephone and
es S& So SS BSeBER @w Overreers of DP
: ce Se Oe the poor
His SPR eReeusgasl oer jlo
—
EP) se See  Hacks anc 
. vmnrmene VS Se FSF SN! urials
 ese SSESS SE }
- o)
om us ot gn O
| Sue see FF SEB] ciytooit &
S i/S SSSEBESESSZSB y)
—
& um   Nef yo)
Do is) tS on OQ wo oO House of Prov  bry
“ Ss fF Re OP RP SOR SO SN dence Hospital 
S/S SS ZFSEBESFREEZEB te
eS S
 Office Suoplics
: Soe FRE sw Fo Stationery and  sezae sx @Qexenyr  Printing q
  eo Nos  Ce uw Swe Other institutions S
a  obo oi np we nr and Prof. Services
@/  $RUSi ]
x Honwwowewew.e 
EB, sses  Salaries 
S| @SsgEsSSEESSB .
 bw wry by Hw DH NS ww
e ON  Ye De GF SNe Ee Total
S|}  SR FS 
ele#eybeteegegs

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
AMOUNTS APPROVED, OUTDOOR POOR, YEAR  .
Frank Stein,  
Maurice Garvey,  
D. Rubin,  
E. Messier,  
S. Solin, 
N. Bouchard,  
Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co.,  
Jacob Goldwasser, 
Boston Market,  
L.J. Becker,  
Con’l. Donoghue, 
Mrs. Hattie Guilliere,  
D. J. McCarthy,  
F. &. P. Donoghue,  
A. D. Durocher,  
A. L. Coderre,  
W. Trombowski,  
Holyoke Coal and Wood Co.,  
W. B. WhitlIng Coal Co.,  
Union Coal and Wood Co.,  
M. J. Norriss,  
Holyoke Public Market,  
Ulric Blanchard, 
Yahnig Burnette,  
L. Nadeau, 
H. Marcotte,  
H. Perrault,  
Thomas Griffin, )
A. Dubiel,  
Patrick Rielly, ,
O. Z. E. Charest,  |
F. Goddu Son, 
J. Solin, 
S. Masse,  
I. J. Perrault,  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
F. U. Menard,  
Henry Trudeau,  
A. P. Lafrance,‘ 
H. C. Markert,  
O. N. Chaput, 
Gaylord Coal Co., 
F. Hamel,  
Joseph Guertin, 
A. C. Menard, 
Roy Desnoyer, 
Rock Bodoin,  
O. Tessier,  
N. Mercure, 
E. O’Connor, |
James J. Sullivan,  
W. T. Burns Shoe Co.,  
George W. Burch,  
Fay& Shumway,  
A. V. Lavoie, .
Prew Co.,  
Bibeau Coal Co.,  
Bridget Sheehan,  
A. R. Vincent,  
A. F. Glesmann,  
Smith Drug Co.,  
Art Metal Construction Co.,  
J. F. Kennedy,  
Vital Gregorie,  
Holyoke City Hospital,  
House of Providence Hospital,  
Hobart Steamship Agency,  
E. M. Greeley,  
George Menard,  
J. C. Tormey, 
B. A. Hamel,  
A. J. Duhamel,  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR

D. Chaille,  if

F. L. Greaney, |

Cleveland’s Pharmacy,  

W. H. Toepfert, .

H. E. Chaput, M. D., s

Simon A. Flynn,  

Joseph H. Tande, \s

John Doyle, :

M. M. Murphy, |

H. E. Miner, M. D., ‘

Elliott’s Park Pharmacy, :

Independent Phar. Co.,  a

Holyoke Infant Hygiene Ass’n.,  :

A. E. Laplante,  

Alfred Therrien,  |

City of Worcester, City of Cambridge, ts

J. Wolfenden, .

Paul Cote,  
- D.M. Foley Market Co., 

City of Northampton,  

C. L. Nadeau,  

Transcript Pub. Co.,  

Alex Ayotte, 

Camille Marion,  

H. A. Beauchamp, 

A. Marcotte, 

Jos. Kawapulla,  

H. C. Lapointe,  

T. C. Marra, 

O’Donnell’s Family Shoe Store,  

Frank Leja,  

H. L. Mousette,  

Val Ducharme,  

Mrs. R. Jacobson,  

Boston Maine Railroad,  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
Mich. J. Lynch,  
J. J. Morrison, 
Alex Murblatt,  
William E. Kronick,  
Joseph Wojtanowicz,  
J. N. Authier,  
Max Tiedman,  
James Tworek,  
C. M. Donnelly,  
Ed Navins, 
Michael J. Flaherty,  
B. T. Silverman,  
Mary Flynn, 
Alphonse Mainville,  
Joseph Durand,  
Gilbert Potvin, 
Mrs. B. J. Grady, 
Naumkeag Clothing Co.,  
Michael Morrison, 
Adam Ostrowski, 
C. Blais,  
John O’Connell, 
Thomas Dillon, 
Isaac Kaplinski, 
Morin Brothers,  
J. H. Fitzsimmons,  
J. R. Smith, 
D. B. Kelton Co.,  
Shea McKenna, 
John Lamb, 
H. Rosenberg,  
P. Juraz,  
Thomas S. Childs,  
A. F. Gingras,  
M. J. Laporte,  
Alphonse Ouimette, 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR |
J. C. Griffin, 
C. Brouilette,  
Nap. Bail,  
Louis Cloutier Son,  
Edward Cadieux,  
Elizabeth Healy,  
M. O’Sullivan,  
A. W. Carreau,  
Town of Worthington,  
City of Lowell, D.J. Donoghue,  
Fitzgerald Book and Art Co.,  
Sheehan’s Children’s Shop,  
Overseers of the Poor,  
J. J. Hafey,  
Hugh Donoghue, 
Timothy Donoghue, 
R. F. Kelton Co.,  
H. Butcher,  
James Griffin, 
L. D. Ally,  
Frank W. Sigdy,  
Ostrowski Brothers,  
J. J. Craven,  
Town of Amesbury,  
Hall Lyon,  
George F. O’Connor,  
N. E. Telephone Telegraph Co.,  
Winthrop Pharmacy, 
Central Milk Station,  
John F. Quigley,  
George A. St. Martin,  
Louis J. Maigret,  
Arthur Hebert,  
Goodall Drug Co.,  
Bibeau Coal Co.,  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
Joep Bania, ,
{ohn D. Leary,  
Town of Metheun,  |
Commonwealth of Mass-; *
City of Lynn,  
Groise Brothers, |
City of Fall River,  .
Wilfred Briere  .
W. F. Grady Co.,  
Price Lee Co.,  
Anker Printing Co.,  
Demarais Drug Co.,  
D. J. Hebert,  
John J. O'Flaherty,  
Goodall Drug Co., 
Joseph Golat,  
Ovila Beaudoin,  
N. Waskieliewicz,  
Paul Niemiro,  
Wilfred J. Beaudry,  
John O'Hern,  
Wojcieck Teczar, 
Adelson Brothers, 
A. Symasko,  
Ed. D. Warren, M. D-  
W. E. Martin, 
J. E. Langlois, 
Gilbert Croteau,  
S. Coderre,  
J. J- Carroll, M. D.,  
Miss Susan Wilson,  
L. J. Maigret,  
Demarais Drug Co.,  
Mrs. C. Tiedman,  
Cine Jeanne Morin,  
of Springfield,

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
Green Optical Co.,  
City of New Bedford,  
Joseph Stacy 
Dr. Samuel Mignault,  
M. J. Doyle Ptg. Co.,  
City of Boston,  
Joseph Shiftman,  
Moskal Lizak,  
Joseph Corriveau, 
Mt. Holyoke Lithia Spring Water Co.,  
Emery Broduer,  
Henry J. Nash,  
G. E. Russell Co., 
City of Chicopee,  
Harry Putnam,  
G. H. Foster, 
City of Lawrence,  
James P. Daly, 
City of Somerville,  
N. Feldman,  
E. J. Moriarty, 
S. A. Mahoney, M. D., 
Charles E. Bardwell, 
J. A. Marin, M. D.,  
'W. J. Powers, M. D., 
City Ice Co.,  
J. E. Brindamour, M. D.,  
A. J. Marcotte,  
A. K. MacDonald,  
W. O. Ducharme,  
Mass. Com. for the Blind,  
J. L. Fairbanks,  
J. N. Prew, 
John B. Shea,  
ML. Slotnick,  
Dr. W. M. Labelle,  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
John Ahern,  
Sutherland Co.,  
James P. Hobart,  
George D. Henderson, M. D.,  
L. J. Laporte,  
City of Salem,  
Adelson Brothers,  
P. M. Shea Co.,  
George D. Butler,  
Mrs. Mary McDonnell,  
Goulet Boisvert,  
So. Holyoke Cash Market,  
Frank Maziarz,  
Holyoke Cash Market,  
SICK POOR.
The expense at the hospitals for the care and board of
sick poor was |
The item for medicine for the patients at home and attended
by the City Physician was .
CITY FARM.
The number of inmates cared for during the year was as
follows:
Number of inmates December  
Number admitted during the year  
—  
Number discharged and died,  
Number remaining November  
HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT.
Of the above number the following were admitted to the
hospital department:
Number of sick in hospital December  
| Number admitted during the year,  
—  

bo |
| |
| REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
Number discharged and died,  
Number remaining November  
| The total number of persons receiving hospital treatment
y during the year was as follows:
Males,  
| Females,  
|  
| Of the above number were sent to the hospital direct,
the remainder were inmates of the institution.
! The duration of treatment aggregated weeks and one
! day or an average of six weeks for each patient.
Following is detailed statement of expense at the City
Farm: ,

ees FET ES ERE SY
 o*  ec  
d/g $§ si foprge  Boe ft GY 
. TF wo: ££ *
a ’ .
- a!  ."
: ‘ {
, Se SS SS a
\cleeueu  ,
wl we n ge Groceries
JE/JSRESRE SESE :
Jolene.  
Slseezeesesszgezgsgenu{]  .|U
“| peewee?  
N PX) me wh
) Py  Meat and Fish 
S/YRRESESSSE SS Ct
- ae 
: o
SiZT Se BSESSERES aS eS)
-|[FeF eS NRF AN Peed
S'S &€  SSR BES ESE  

| -—  ——  BY  
| ea Medicine  
ES, BSSSSRRSSEEER) le
- wa
|  eaeS BwnBSaBE Shoes and )
  ae err err oe aa !
  Sassesres ss yy Chri SZ
al  aoa NN +]
i S; ff  wi w& Ss  Dry Goods O
[S|@i i: we eeixesgeye s
; to “”
| IN  Ys  House Goods and 
ra) re  ty
  &:  i“
|  ot }
| hen So onrnte Oa oH Painting andee   aeee ,
| SIR EE EEE BR  Pumbing .
bE] By  B| Herma ed |G
Gli SP ati SS: Bi Bz Lumber
. |; Oi  &@ S&S Disinfectants and 
i /i)beei asx) sae Oils q
a a
-— :
| NB pa)  es So Supplies Shoeing rrj
ht aie!
“§$)  BH EB] and Repairing 
Vel. es z
sad pow Nn AN BDH DH Nn oH Stationery and 
\gl|se exgee ecw zg] Teiephone |S
rs og mn
| Si  e.: Baagas  Prof. Services tr}
; OO and Misc. Items
Ie)  ese  |i ie ie —
me fo ob Ef i
N oO “Nn  Sleizh, Wood
| Blig s: gs:  Horse, Carriage, 
w Poot ft ft ft yw ft Bes ew we igs if ft Si ti Bi BER: Pins Hay 
& yoyo eoxrnuonoaus
hg ean, fh Salaries
£)/ SER FSA
ee CT a
&  Oo FD  BH WH WH HD WW rpPoOonNnohe Pete eH GH
s)PSe eek seeks Te
 IYSsSQSReReESELEEESEB |
|
  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
AMOUNTS APPROVED, CITY FARM, YEAR  .
Thomas E. Begley, 
Sheehan’s Chn Shop,  
William R. Ross Co., !
C. B. Dolge Co.,  
Naumkeag Clothing Co., }
G. E. Russell Co.,  
P. H. Brennan,  
A. F. Schmitter,  
Prentiss Brooks Co.,  
M. Callahan Co.,  
Millane Brothers,  
Winthrop Pharmacy,  
H. O. Beauchamp,  
Flynn Drug Co.,  
Bart S. Casey, 
Collins Murray,  
Deitz Baking Co.,  
Shea McKenna,  
C. B. Sampson,  
J. Russell Co.,  
W. T. Burns Shoe Co., |
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co.,  
Bresnahan O’Brien,  
Kaffir Cigar Co.,  
Lynch Smith,  
Mrs. J. E. Shea, 
W. O. Pearson,  
Sutherland Co., !
Fitzgerald Book and Art Co.,  
S. Butcher,  
Thomas J. Griffin,  
Rev. John B. Daly,  |
A. E. Martin, |
New York Butter House,  
Sullivan Carmody,  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  

B. F. Bigelow, 

D. P. Hartnett,  

F. L. Greaney, 

E. O’Connor Co., 

James F. Reidy,  

Belvedere Cash Market,  

McAuslan Wakelin,  

John J. Prew,  

Swift Co.,  

D. D. Lewis,  

Fay Shumway,  

Holyoke Broom Works,  

D. Chaille,  

Rood Woodbury,  
James J. Sullivan,  

| Ulric Blanchard,  
! American Soap and Washoline Co.,  
' Peter Rainville,  
, A. R. Vincent,  
: E. E. Spamer,  
J.C. Griffin,  
| J.J. OF laherty, Gallivan Brothers, Alling Rubber Co.,  
: Price Lee Co., West Disinfectant Co.,  
Dr. J. J. Moynahan,  
P. F. Shea, 

M. J. Bowler,  

| John F. Kennedy, 
Meany Clothing Co.,  

Maurice Curran,  

T. J. Lynch,  

G. M. White,  

R. T. Oakes Co.,  

C.M. Donnelly,  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
— Geary, Sullivan Co.,  
O’Donnell’s Family Shoe Store,  
Peter Donegan,  
Lemuel Sears Co.,  
C. G. Burnham,  
James Clark,  
N. C. Cook,  
John O’Shea,  
A. Steiger Co.,  
F. W. Woolworth Co.,  
E. D. Wells Co.,  
Holyoke Supply Co.,  
A. F. McDonald,  
M. A. Allen Son,  
Maplewood Mills,  
Goodall Drug Co.,  
Ross Bray,  
H. E. Taylor,  
Holyoke Brazing Machine Works,  
Dr. Thomas A. Dillon,  
J. M. A. H. Smith, —
M. J. Norris,  
Transcript Pub. Co.,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold,  
E. W. Kroepel. |
I-lImwood Pharmacy,  
Casper Ranger, :
Timothy Donoghue,  
McAuslan Wakelin, |
John Ahern,  
Chase Cooledge,  
Zoel Mayer,  
Leahy Printing Co.,  
Timothy Donoghue, 
Arthur Barthlette,  
Emil E. Sattler,  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
Dr. T. J. Shinkwin,  
B. M. Railroad Co.,  
RECAPITULATION.
Outdoor poor, city, 
Outdoor poor, state,  
Outdoor poor, cities and towns,  
Overseers of the Poor,  
City Farm,  
| ——— 
CR.
By amount charged to state, 
By amount charged to cities and towns,  
By visits of City Physician, state,  
By visits of City Physician, cities and
towns,  
By cash from state,  
By cash from cities and towns,  
By cash received from board of
individuals,  
By cash from sale of farm produce,  
By cash from sale of pigs,  
By cash from sale of calves,  
By transfer from Board of Health,  
———— 
Net expense to city for year  
Respectfully submitted,
PATRICK J. DOWD,
WILLIAM J. DILLON,
HENRY H. BAUSH,
Overseers of the Poor.
J. J. BYRNES,
City Almoner.
Submitted Dec. .

[ ,
| |
 
REPORT OF THE |
|
. ‘N
CITY TREASURER |
, —— |
City Hall, |
! Holyoke, Mass., Dec. |
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Aldermen: !
Gentlemen:—I have the honor to present to you. the |
Annual Report for the fiscal year  .
Balance on hand Dec.  
Total receipts during fiscal year  
$ 
Total payments during fiscal year 
Balance on hand Dec. 
| 
The amounts received from various sources were charged
and credited to the following accounts:
| Receipts. I-xpenditures.
Tax on Construction Acct. Water Works 
Alleys 
Assessors  
Board of Health  
| Board of Public Works Contingent  
Board of Public Works Salaries  
City engineer Dept.  
City Property  
| Contingent  
Fire  
|  
$  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  

Brought Forward  
Fuel  
Gas and Electric Dept.  
Gas and Electric Interest  
Gas and Electric Ren. and Ext.  
Gas and Electric Extensions  
Highways and Bridges  
School Janitors’ Salaries  
School Janitors’ Supplies  
Park Department  
Police Department  
Relief Department  
Salaries  
Soldiers’ Relief  
School Department, Supplies  
School Department, Salaries  
Sewer Department  
Sidewalk Department  
Street Watering.  
Interest on City Debt  
Interest on Temporary Loans  
Interest on Daily Balances  

Interest on Ho. W. R. R. Bonds  
Interest on Water Debt  
Div. H. W. R. R. Stock  
Taxes on Holyoke Water Works  

Lighting |
Military Aid Civil War  
State Aid Civil War  
State Aid Spanish War  
Holyoke Public Library  
Soldiers’ Burial  
County Tax  
State Highway Tax  
State Tax  
Corporation Tax Public Service  

Corporation Tax Business  

$  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
Brought Forward  
Street Railway Tax  
National Bank Tax  
Forestry  
Assessors Maps  
Contagious Disease Hospital  
Tuberculosis Hospital  
Ingleside School  
Elmwood Engine House Remod.  
Public Playgrounds  
Bridges Construction  
App. payment Ho. W. R. R. Bonds  
Joseph Metcalf School  
City Farm Additions  
Whiting Street Fund  
Inc.& Ex. on Cemetery Funds Dep.  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts  
Overlayings  
Sealer of Weights and Measures  
City Hall Rentals  
Liquor Licenses  
Miscellaneous Licenses  
Water Department  
Dog Tax  
City Debt Direct  
City Debt H. W. R. R. Stock  
City Debt Holyoke Water Works  
City Debt Gas and Electric Plant  
City Debt Temporary Loans
anticipation of Taxes  
Sinking Fund for City Debt .
Direct |
James M. Kennedy, Collector |
Taxes, !
James M. Kennedy, Collector
Taxes,  
$  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
Brought Forward . 
James M. Kennedy, Collector
Taxes,  
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector, |
Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest, Taxes, ,
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest Taxes,  
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest Taxes, 
James M. Kennedy, Collector,
Interest Taxes, 
P. B. Sewer Assessments,  
P. B. Sewer Assessments,  
P. B. Sewer Assessments,  
P. B. Sewer Assessments,  
P. B. Sewer Assessments,  
P. B. Sidewalk Assessments,
 
P. B. Sidewalk Assessments  
$  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
 Brought Forward  

P. B. Sidewalk Assessments, 

P. B. Sidewalk Assessments, 

P. B. Sidewalk Assessments, 

P. B. Sidewalk Assessments, 

Holyoke St. R. R. Excise Tax  

Municipal Loan,  

Gas and Electric Loan, 
Sewers, Permanent Works,  
, Sidewalks, Permanent Works,  
Highways, Permanent Works,  

App. payment Gas and Electric

Bonds  
Fire Engine Auto Truck  
Police Auto Truck  
$ 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER .
Dr.
Holyoke Water Works 
Gas Electric Light Plant  
Real Estate (as valued by
Assessors),  
H. W. R. R. Stock (par value),  
Hol. Water Commission,  
Mun. Sinking Fund Commission,  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes,  ,
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes, 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes, 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes,  |
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes, 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes, 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes, 
Sidewalk Assessments,  .
Sidewalk Assessments, 
Sidewalk Assessments, 
Sidewalk Assessments, 
Sidewalk Assessments, 
Sidewalk Assessments, 
—  
Sewer Assessments, 
Sewer Assessments, 
Sewer Assessments, 
Sewer Assessments, 
Sewer Assessments, 
——.  
Cemetery Funds Deposits,  
Cash on hand,  
$ 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
Cr.
City of Holyoke, 
City Debt Direct, 
City Debt Direct exempt by
Legislature  
———— 
City Debt Gas Elec. Plant,  
City Debt Ho. Water Works,  
City Debt H. W. R. R. Stock,  
———————  
City Debt Temp. Loans Ant. of
| Taxes,  
Cemetery Funds  
Whiting Street Fund,  
Sinking Fund for City Debt,  
Sinking Fund for Hol. Water Bonds,  
—————  
Gas Electric Dept.,  
G. FE. R. E. Und. Conduits,  
Gas Elec. Extensions,  
—————  
App. for Gas Elec. Bonds,  
App. for Municipal Bonds,  
Assessors Maps,  
City Farm Additions,  
Contagious Disease Hospital,  
Sewer Assessments,  
Sidewalk Assessments,  
Sewers, Permanent Works,  
Highways, Permanent Works,  
Assessors,  
Park Land,  
Bridges Construction,  
Overlayings, ,
$ 
}

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—Exhibit A.
Showing the aggregate amount maturing each year.
—City Debt Direct——
Pay- Issued for Issucd for Issued for Payable by
able  oH. WW. Water Gas E. Sinking Serial
in Stock Works Works Fund Loans Total
 s-  .   , .   ,   .   ,   .   ,   ,   
ee  , 
Ie      ,   , .   ,   , 
Sink  
in
nj funds* 
et
debt  , 
* Hol. Westfield R. R. Stock at par value.
 Surplus.

' i
| .
' REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
| |
, BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—Exhibit B. |
| GENERAL PURPOSES a
. Year] |
d Date Issued Rate Years Payments Payable Amounts a
| May   May i!
; Aug.  Aug.  “
’ Mar.  Mar. 
Aug.  Aug. 
; Apr.  Apr. 
Apr.   Apr. 
. Apr.  Apr. 
Mar.  Mar. 
July July 
May  May  May  May  |
Apr.   Apr.  
, Oct.  Oct. 
$  .
| SCHOOLS.
May  May  ,
Sept.  Sept. 
! Apr. Apr.  |
Apr.   Apr.  ;
Sept.  Sept.  a
| May ,  May 
| Apr.  Apr.  
$ 
SCHOOLS.
June *Sept.l,  
July  *July 
, Mar.  *Mar. 
, 
, BRIDGES.
June  *Junel, 
PARKS.
Apr.   Apr. 
May  Mar. 
Mar.  May 
May May 
£ 
* To be paid by Sinking Fund.

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—Continued
SEWERS. y
l
Date Issued Rate Years Payments Payable Amounts
May  May  
Aug.  Aug. 
Apr.  Apr. 
May May 
Mar.  Mar. 
$ 
SEWERS. .
May *May  
Oct. *Oct. 
, 
GAS AND ELECTRIC.
Dec.   Dec. 
Oct.  Oct. 
Nov.  Nov. 
Apr.  Apr. 
Sept.   Sept. 
Apr.  Apr. 
Apr. Apr. 
npr   Apr. 
hat  Mar. 
eb. Feb. 
$ 
WATER WORKS.
June *June 
July  “July 
June  “Tune l,  
July July 
$ 
Hol. W. R. R. STOCK.
July  *July 
HOL. W. R. R. STOCK.
July July  
* To be paid by Sinking Fund. )

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
General Purposes, 
Schools,  
Parks,  
Sewers,  
City Debt Direct, 
Schools* 
Bridges*  
Sewers*  
City Debt Exempted by Spec.
Act of Legislature 
Gas Electric Debt,  
Water Debt,  
Water Debt*,  
Ho. W. R. R. Debt*  
Ho. W.R. R. Debt,  
$  
* ‘To be paid by Sinking Fund.

a
REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE. :
Valued by the Board of Assessors in  .
School Buildings and Land.
Brick Schools:
Lyman and Center Streets, 
East Dwight and Center Streets  
West Street, ,
Hamilton Street,  
Morgan School (Bridge Street),  
Sargeant Street,  
Hamilton and Park Streets,  
Main and Papineau Streets,  
Elm Street,  
Maple and Appleton Streets,  
Sargeant and Chestnut Streets, .
Pine, Sargeant, Bh and Hampshire Streets, |
Carlton Street, |
School Street,  
Carlton and South Streets,  
Nonotuck Street,  
Nonotuck, Lincoln, Waldo and Allyn Streets, |
Wm. Whiting School (Chestnut Street),  
Ingleside,  
West Holyoke,  
Kirtland,  
Smith’s Ferry School,  
Jos. Metcalf School (Northampton Street),  
| 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
Engine Houses and Land.
Engine Houses:
Chestnut Street, 
Canal Street,  
Main Street,  
South Street, ‘
High Street,  
Hampden Street,  
Temple Street,  
, 
Miscellaneous. ,
City Hall Building, High and Dwight Streets, 
Hillside Hospital, Jarvis Avenue,  
City Farm, House and Barn, Ingleside,  
Barn and Sheds, Commercial Street,  
Isolation Hospital and Pumping Station,  
$ 
: Gas and Electric Light Plant.
Gas and Water Gas Buildings, Lyman Street, 
Electric Light Station, Cabot Street,  
Gasometer, Bridge Street,  
Gas Holder and Boiler House, Canal Street,  
$ 
Parks.
Hampden Park, Hampden, Maple, Chestnut and
Dwight Streets, 
Prospect Park, Prospect Street,  
Canonchet Park, Bowers, Samosett, West and
Pequot Streets  
Hamilton Park, Sargeant Street  
| 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
Brought Forward  
- Germania Park, Bridge, Park and Jackson
Streets,  
Ranger Park, Appleton and Suffolk Streets,  
Ewing Park, Appleton, Pleasant and Dwight
Streets,  
Coghlan Park, Crescent and Park Streets,  
EImwood Park, Elmwood,  
Springdale Park, Main Street,  
Laurel and Willow Street Triangle,  
Highland Park, .
$ 
Land.
Jefferson Street, 
Pearl Street, and Madison Avenue,  
Jefferson Street, and Madison Avenue,  
I’ast Jefferson Street and North Madison Avenue,  
Madison Avenue and Pearl Street,  
E’ast side of Pearl Street,  
Madison Avenue and Pearl Street,  
cast and West Side Pleasant Street, west of
Dingle,  
Gravel Pit (Ingleside),  
Gravel Pit (Springdale),  
Cemetery (Smith’s Ferry)  
$ 
Playgrounds.
Samosett, Winter and Pequot Streets, 
Hampden, E. and W. Oak Strect,  
Cabot, Maple, Hampshire and Chestnut Streets,  
| 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
Summary. School Buildings and Land,  .
Engine Houses and Land, ,
Miscellaneous, }
Parks,  
Land,  
Playgrounds,  
Add. to Joseph Metcalf School since April  
Total Real Estate,  
Gas and Electric Light Plant,  
Grand Total of Real Estate  
Respectfully submitted, |
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,
City Treasurer. :
I have examined the books of the City Treasurer, and i
hereby certify that the above report of Cash Receipts, Authorized Expenditures, Ledger Balances and Cash on hand and |
in banks is correct.  
WALTER W. EATON, |
Certified Public Account. ,

REPORT OF THE
Sinking Fund Commissioners
Holyoke, Mass., November .
To his Honor, the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen of the

City of Holyoke, Mass.:

The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, for the payment
of Municipal Bonds, respectfully submit the following report:

It is with the deepest sorrow that we have to report the
loss by death, during the Municipal year, of two of our most
valued members,  Lemuel Sears and Thomas J. Gibson.

Mr. Sears became member of the Sinking Fund in Jan.
 thereby being one of the oldest office holders in the city.
He gave to the discharge of his duties, on this Board, that same
ripened judgment and conscientious labor, which marked him
in the discharge of his own private affairs.

Thomas J. Gibson, while much younger in pointof service
on this Board, becoming member in Jan.  vied with Mr.
Sears in rendering efficient and helpful service to his city.

Holyoke can ill spare men of the type of the two, who have
died. Always helpful and courteous to their fellow members
on the Board, out of their ripened experience, they gave freely
to the city.

The Commissioners hereby desire to register the loss, which
has been sustained, both by the city, and themselves, in the
death of these two men.

FINANCIAL REPORT.
Amount of Fund November  
Received during the year
From City Treasurer,

  REPORT OF SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS
Nov.  account of H. &. W.
" R. R. Div., 
Nov.  account of Water
* Commissioners,  
Nov.  account of Appropriation, city,  
Received interest on Investment )
and Balances,  
Amount of funds to date, 
Invested as follows:
Municipal Bonds.
Boston, 
Commonwealth of Mass.,  
Haverhill,  
Holyoke,  
Marlboro,  
Middlesex County,  
Nashua,  
New Bedford,  
Pittsfield, |
Salem,  
Springfield,  
Stamford,  
| Waltham,  
Waterbury,  
Woburn,  
Wyland,  
$ 
Holyoke Notes (Temporary Loans), 
Certificates of—Holyoke Nat. Bank  
Deposit. .—Hadley Falls Nat.
Bank,  
Mortgages on Real l'state,  

REPORT OF SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS  
Cash in Bank at interest,  
,  
Respectfully submitted,
H. J. BARDWELL,
S. A. MAHONEY,
Commissioners of the Sinking Fund.

Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
Office, Chestnut Street.
Hon. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.
TERENCE O’DONNELL,
Chairman.
| JOHN L. RILEY,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.
Term Expires January
At Larve TERENCE O’DONNELL........-.....  
"| THOMAS S. CHILDS.........---+-.+-  
Ward I—JOHN F. KENNEDY .............--.--.  
Ward  —WILFRED G. DEROIN..........-.----- YS
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH..........-.--------  
Ward  —MAURICE G. DONAHUE........--.----  
Ward  —JOHN J. O’CONNOR...........- -+-++-+  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH...........-.-------  
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS..........-.-.----+-+-  

Holyoke School Committee
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
Hon. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.
TERENCE O’DONNELL,
Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY,
Secretary and Superintendent of Schools.
Term Expires January
At Large TERENCE O’DONNELL..............  
JOSEPH H. POTTS...................  
Ward  —JOHN F, KENNEDY ...................  
Ward  —WILFRED G. DEROIN.................  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH.....................  
Ward  —MAURICE G. DONAHUE...............  
Ward  —JOHN J. O’CONNOR....................  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH..................--  
Ward  —-EDWIN D. WELLS.....................  

Standing Committees for  

High School—Messrs. O'Connor, Baush, Wells.

First District—Messrs. Donah ue, Potts, O’Connor.

Second District—Messrs. Baush, Deroin, Lynch.

Third District—Messrs. Kennedy, Wells, O’Donnell.

Rules, Text Books and Courses of Study—Messrs. Lynch,

Baush, O’Connor.

Salaries and Finance—Messrs. Donahue, Wells,
O’Connor.

Printing and Supplies —Messrs. Baush, Donahue, Lynch.

Special Departments—Messrs. Potts, Deroin, Lynch.

Evening Schools and Attendance—Messrs. Wells, Donahue,
O’Donnell.

Buildings, Janitors and Social Centers—Messrs. O'Donnell,
Kennedy, Baush.

School Calendar,  
DAY SCHOOL TERMS.
Winter term begins December .
Winter term ends February .
Spring term begins March .
Spring term ends April .
Summer term begins May .
Summer term ends June .
Fall term begins September .
Fall term ends December .
Winter term begins December .
EVENING SCHOOL TERMS.
High School.
| The term begins on the last Monday in September and ends
on the last Friday in March.
| Term of began September ends
| March .
Term of begins September ends
March ,
Elementary Schools.
Term of began October ends February  .
Term of begins October ends February
  .
VACATIONS. |

February to March inclusive.

April to May inclusive.

June to September inclusive.

December to December inclusive.

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, New Year’s Day, Washington’s Birthday,
Patriots’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day with the
day following, and Christmas Day.

Standing Committees for  

High School—Mfessrs. O’Connor, Baush, Wells.

First District—Messrs. Donahue, Potts, O'Connor.

Second District—NMlessrs. Baush, Deroin, Lynch.

Third District—Mlessrs. Kennedy, Wells, O’Donnell.

Rules, Text Books and Courses of Study—Nlessrs. Lynch,

Baush, O’Connor.

Salaries and Finance—Nlessrs. Donahue, Wells,
O'Connor.

Printing and Supplies—Alessrs. Baush, Donahue, Lynch.

Special Departments—\essrs. Potts, Deroin, Lynch.

Evening Schools and Attendance—Nlessrs. Wells, Donahue,
O*Donnell.

Buildings, Janitors and Social Centers—Nlessrs. O’ Donnell,
Kennedy, Baush.

a
School Calendar,  
DAY SCHOOL TERMS.

Winter term begins December .

Winter term ends February .

Spring term begins March .

Spring term ends April .

Summer term begins May .

Summer term ends June .

Fall term begins September .

Fall term ends December .

Winter term begins December .

EVENING SCHOOL TERMS.
High School.

The term begins on the last Monday in September and ends
on the last Friday in March.

Term of began September ends
March .

Term of begins September ends
March .

Elementary Schools.

Term of began October ends Februarv .

Term of begins October ends February
  .

VACATIONS. |

February to March inclusive.

April to May inclusive.

June to September inclusive.

December  to December inclusive.

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, New Year’s Day, Washington’s Birthday,
Patriots’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day with the
day following, and Christmas Day.

REPORT OF
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

We herewith present the report of your School Committee
for the year ending November  th,  .

JOSEPH METCALF SCHOOL.

The new twelve-room grammar school in Elmwood was
completed and equipped in good time for the opening of the fall
term September  nd. This building is named the Joseph
Metcalf School in honor of one of our highly esteemed and
public spirited citizens. The dedication of this building did not
take place until September  th owing to the fact that Mr.
Metcalf and family were in Europe, and did not return until
the latter part of September. The dedication was most
delightful affair, and was an important event to the people of
Elmwood. The latest should be the best, and this certainly
applies to the Joseph Metcalf School. All those having anything to do with its construction were determined to do the
best possible for Elmwood and at the same time keep within
the appropriation. As result our city has one of the most
modern school buildings in New England; it is not only modern
for the use of the schools, but modern for the use of the people,
as it should be to meet the demand of the times. All such
buildings should be the social center for the district in which
they are placed. The spacious auditorium is on the ground
floor and is well lighted through glass roof. In addition to
the twelve rooms there is sewing room, library, principal’s
office, and teachers’ room. The basement is cemented and
has high ceiling, thus affording good opportunity for
gymnasium work. There is well lighted, well ventilated


:
|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
manual training room in the basement; the shower baths are |
placed there and also the toilets. All the rooms have an abun- ,
dance of light, so, all in all, our latest school building is one of ;
which all Holyoke may well be proud. |
|
HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASIUM.
While building for gymnasium had been discussed
informally by the school committee for some time, it remained :
for the alumni of the High School to bring the matter to head.
At mass meeting which was largely attended, in the audi- ;
torium of the High School September  th, the sentiment was
unanimous that the time had arrived to act. little later the
president of the High School alumni, with others deeply interested, appeared before the School Committee, and all ably
presented the wishes of the alumni and the citizens generally. :
As an outcome of the interest taken the building committee .
selected tract of land opposite the High School and facing
Sargeant Street. The Mayor and the Board of Aldermen are
now negotiating for the purchase of this land. This tract :
will be ample for the erection of large gymnasium. At the |
same time there will be room for fine athletic field. It is
expected that in the near future the building operations will
be under way for the gymnasium. !
NEW GRAMMAR SCHOOL BUILDING. !
Another matter of great importance in the immediate |
future will be the erection of center grammar school building.
There seems to be misunderstanding in some quarters as to
what is to be the scope of this school. We believe that it  s
owing to the fact that the proposed new building has been
termed the central grammar school. This implies, in the minds
of some, that all the pupils of the upper grammar grades in ;
the city would be requested to attend this school. This is not |
the idea of the committee. This building should be the gram- {
mar school center for the elementary schools in its neighbor
hood, just as the Highland Grammar School is the center for |
,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

that district, the Joseph Metcalf for Elmwood, or the Morgan
and the West Street for their districts. Your committee fully
realize that the center grammar school building should be constructed with an eye to the future.

There should be cooking, sewing, and manual training
rooms; there should be large gymnasium and shower baths;
there should be library; the auditorium should be of sufficient
size to accommodate large audiences, for being centrallv located
it would be in great demand by the public generally. part of
this center grammar school, or better, wing, should be fitted
for the administration offices of the board; that is, committee
rooms, superintendent’s offices, offices of truant and attendance
officers, clerks’ offices, and large central supply and stock
room.

WIDER USE OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS.

The time has arrived when your School Committee must
consider the interest of the people generally as well as that of
the children in the construction of our school buildings. These
buildings should not be merely for the training and the education of the young for citizenship; they should be places where
the people mav receive stimulus for better citizenship, where
the grown-ups are as welcome as the pupils. Your committee
is on record as favoring, under proper conditions, the use of

our school halls for public meetings and entertainments.

TECHNICAL AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING.

While our city stands splendidly by her public schools,
it behooves us to be wide awake to stay in the front rank with
other industrial cities. We are lagging in offering technical and
industrial advantages. The facilities for such training in the
High School are very meager as compared with what they should
be in school of over enrolment. technical or industria!
building is badly needed. Our High School building is crowded
to its utmost capacity, but at the present rate of growth there
will be pupils in the near future; so your committee in

a
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
planning today must plan for the future. Your committee
selected the tract of land mentioned above because it is large
enough for technical building as well as gymnasium and an
athletic field.

United States Commissioner of Education, Philander B. :
Claxton, said at the teachers’ convention in Springfield last |
October that very large percentage of the graduates of the |
grammar schools of the country do not complete the high school
course. He might also have said that there is large percentage of pupils whose training in the schools ends with the seventh
oreighth grade. Then itis the solemn duty of the school author- .
ities to see to it that the boys and girls who leave the school- |
room so early should have the best possible equipment to help
them in hfe. Germany today is the leader in the industrial
world, simply because she begins early to equip the young for |
their life work. It cannot be otherwise than that the industrial training, and the vocational training, as carried on in
our day and evening schools, will have very vital effect on
the strength of this community. As has been said by great
educator, ““The practical should come before the cultural.” |
This does not implv that the cultural should be frowned upon. !
However, all industrial communities are confronted with the ,
stern fact that the great majority of the young receive at the
most only grammar school education and therefore will earn
a livelihood by their hands. Then it is the plain duty of the :
school authorities to see to it that the great majority are so |
equipped, that, when they step out into the world they can |
accept position for which they have already had good
start because of the right training in our schools. We repeat
that we do not decry the cultural, but we believe that the practical should be pre-eminent in the training of certain pupils, and
then being trained so as to obtain good wages they will be able
to appreciate the cultural. Too much time has been given toa |
general education and not enough along the line for which the
pupil is adapted, and as result the pupil leaves the school and
naturally takes up position in which there is the most money

,

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
offered, often many years being spent in floundering about
before he finds the right place, if it is ever found. It is realized
that it is the duty of the teachers and parents to discover what
the child is best adapted to; and then when he leaves school
he will not be wandering aimlessly about for years or perhaps
for life. Properly trained, that is industrially trained, such
pupils are an asset of great value to the community in which they
live, as well as to the nation. It is far more economical to the
community to train right at the start then to endeavor to turn
back after wrong course has been pursued for years.
MANUAL TRAINING IN THE GRADES.

Your committee has started manual training in five large
grammar schools, and we are pleased to announce that great
interest is being manifested in this department. All the
seventh, eighth and ninth grade boys in the city take manual
training and all the girls in these grades take sewing.

HIGH SCHOOL LUNCH COUNTER.

The lunch counter at the high school is well patronized and
was  ahead of expenses December Ist,  This speaks
well indeed for the management.

EVENING SCHOOLS.

The increased attendance at the Evening High and
Industrial School is very pleasing to your committee. Over
  applied in the sewing department. As it was impossible
to accommodate so many in the high school building additional rooms were opened, one each in the Morgan and William
Whiting buildings. There are about attending the cooking department, divided into four classes, each class having one
night week. The pupils of the sewing and cooking departments display marked enthusiasm in their work, and so it is
gencrally in all the departments.

. REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
There is also an increased attendance in the elementary
and grammar evening schools. It is revelation to visit these
schools and note the fine progress the pupils are making in
learning the English language and in obtaining useful education. Too much credit cannot be given to the superintendents,
the principals, and the teachers under them, who have brought
the evening schools both high and elementary to very high
state of efficiency. It is the aim to give opportunities to the
men and women of the city, irrespective of age, so that their
daily work will be of greater value to themselves and to those
whom they serve. The state-aid in the vocational work is
an incentive for the city to enlarge in this department.
SOCIAL CENTERS.
| The social center work is progressing. reflectoscope has
| been installed in the Morgan School and balopticon in the
Joseph Metcalf School. It is believed that these machines
will give great pleasure and much useful knowledge to the
pupils and the people generally of the community. |
TEACHERS’ PENSIONS.

The Teachers’ Pension Act came before the voters at the
last city election and was again defeated. This is greatly regretted, for in the opinion of your committee the act is worthy
one. Asa matter of fact only very few teachers would ever
be eligible to pension; one must serve twenty-five years in
the same city, and cannot receive pension even then unless
incapacitated for further service. Only now and then one would
receive the benefits of the act. There is another side to this
matter not generally taken into consideration, the pupils’

side. Is it right to inflict on thirty or forty pupils in classroom the services of an incapacitated teacher, who is broken
down on account of long service? Yet no community would
acquiesce in the discharge of an old, faithful, but incapacitated
teacher. We wish to say too for the benefit of those who do
not know by experience or observation, that there is no voca  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
tion so wearing to the nerves, that saps ones vitality so much
as teaching school. Several of the cities of Massachusetts have
accepted this act. Holyoke should do so. |
SALARIES OF TEACHERS IN HIGH SCHOOL.
Your committee has continued the policy of making the
salaries in the high school attractive enough to retain able and |
ambitious teachers. We can conceive of nothing more detrimental to any school than the constant changing of the teach- .
ing force. This wise policy is manifested in the finer spirit and
results obtained. ,
RECEPTION TO SUPERINTENDENT.
The reception given by the teachers, at the Highland School
hall, to the new Superintendent, Mr. Francis McSherry, was a
very enjoyable affair. Such meetings produce cordiality and
good feeling that should be cultivated.
MEDICAL INSPECTION.
Under the state law the Board of Health appoints school
medical examiners whose duty it is to examine the children
attending the public schools and give general attention to their
physical welfare. Inattention on the part of some of the
present corps of medical examiners has made it necessary for
the teachers to make eye and ear tests and to report children |
with adenoids, enlarged tonsils, diseases of the skin or contagious diseases, duty that should not devolve upon these
teachers. This should be the duty of the school physicians.
We recommend the division of our schools into two health districts and the appointment of two physicians at salary that will
allow them to visit the schools and make the necessarv examina- ,
tions at least once every week. Our experience in the William
Whiting School, which has matron who is doing work that is
invaluable to the children of that school, clearly shows the
necessity of school nurses, and we strongly urge such appoint- |
ments.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
REPAIRS MADE. ;

The Board of Public Works put in some new flooring in
the Park Street School, painted the entire interior, and put in
a metal ceiling in the office and in section of the hall. A
teachers’ room was added to the Sargeant Strect building, and
manual training rooms were constructed in the basements of the
Highland, West Street and Morgan buildings. These rcoms
were equipped by your committee in season for the fall term.
The committee is very grateful to the Board of Public Works
for its ready and able assistance.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

We have the following recommendations to make for the
coming year:

The sanitaries at the Nonotuck Street, Hamilton Street
and Highland buildings should be thoroughly overhauled.
There should be extra drinking fountains in the Highland
building to accommodate the large number of pupils there.
Much of the furniture in this building is no longer fit for

) service, while some can be refinished. In way of explanation
we ought to say that many of the desks were old when thev
were placed in this building. The desks should be replaced
where it is necessary and others refinished. ‘There should
be division fence at the rear of the Joseph Metcalf building.
The interior of the Elmwood building needs painting badly.
The engineering department at the Evening Industrial School
is in need of an equipment, viz.: Corliss engine, boiler and
a condenser, all of which would involve an expenditure of at
least The chemical laboratory at the High School is
not up to date, although it was very good in its day. To
accommodate the classes in chemistry there should be two
laboratories instead of one. We ask your consideration in this
very necessary equipment.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
For details and an educational review of the school work
we refer you to the reports of the Superintendent and heads of
departments.
EDWIN D. WELLS,
AUGUST H. BAUSH,
JOHN J. O?;CONNOR,
Committee on Annual Report.

REPORT OF THE
Superintendent and Secretary
To the School Committee of Holyoke:

Your Superintendent herewith submits report of the
Holyoke public schools for the year  This is his first
annual report, and the forty-ninth volume in series of printed

reports, the first of which was submitted to the School Committee of Holyoke in the year  .
I. FOREWORD.

This report is planned as sort of inventory, taking
account of stock of the Holyoke public school system. It is
a statement of what we have in our school plant due to the
earnest efforts of past superintendents and committees. It
also indicates some of the things we want to have and want to
do in order to make our schools even more efficient than they are,
and more capable of furthering the educational interests of the
whole community. The writer gratefully acknowledges the
excellent work which has been done in past administrations.
He wishes to express appreciation of many splendid features of
the schools, which now to him, in his present limited experience
in Holyoke, stand out most prominently—such features as
excellent accommodations, well developed evening schools,
an almost perfect office system, and strong, capable corps of
teachers. }

Il. FINANCES.

By regular appropriation, by special appropriation of |
$  made in November,  and from all other sources
this department received  for the year beginning
December and ending November The
amount spent was making it necessary to overdraw

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
. the account of this department with the city in the sum of
$ .

In the total receipts of  is included the sum of
$  transferred to this department by the Board of
Public Works for janitors’ salaries and supplies. This transfer
was made on May when the janitors came under the
supervision of the School Committee. In the total disbursements of  is included the sum of  expended
by this department for janitors’ salaries and supplies. Subtracting the latter sum from the total disbursements, the difference,
representing the expenditures for the year with janitors’
salaries and supply accounts omitted is .

The expenditures for the year with no janitor account
amounted to This means that it cost 
more to run the Holyoke schools in than it cost in  .
This increase in running expenses mav be traced to several
causes, as follows:

 The automatic increase in salary of all day school
teachers.

 The special increase in salary of grade teachers, beginning December .

 The increase in salary of principals of primarv buildings,
beginning January .

 The increase in salary of evening school teachers.

 The introduction of new courses in the Evening High
School. It is evident that matters of salary mentioned above
are responsible for the increase in running expenses of ,
 In fact, of this amount, the sum of  was used
to provide salary increases for day school teachers.

HI. DISTRICTS AND ACCOMMODATIONS.

Holyoke is second to no city with which fair comparison
may be made in the matter of providing suitable school buildings and grounds for the pupils. In that near relative of the
school, namely the playground, Holyoke is easily the leader.
During the past five years, and especially during the adminisREPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEFR  
tration of former Superintendent John L. Riley, many school
buildings were erected or thoroughly repaired, congested districts were relieved, and better accommodations in every way
were provided, all testifying to the intelligent endeavor of the
school officials and the generosity of the citizens in their work of
bringing good health, comfort and educational opportunity
to the school children of.this city. The reader is referred to
pages seventeen to twenty-one inclusive of the school report of
 The statement thoroughly covers the question of school
accommodations in Holyoke at the present time. All the districts of the city are well provided for save the large central
section embracing the schools known as Appleton Street, South
Chestnut Street, Elm Street, Ewingville and William Whiting.
Following the recommendation of the Committee tn this present
report, your Superintendent urges the taking of immediate
action towards deciding upon location and making plans for
a new, well-appointed, modernly equipped grammar school
building in the central district of the city. The High School,
which when built some fifteen years ago was considered by many
as entirely too large for even the remote future needs of Holyoke,
is now crowded. plan for relieving congestion here is included
in the project of the new gymnasium and technical building
mentioned elsewhere in this report.

IV. ELEMENTARY DAY SCHOOLS.

Your Superintendent has no detailed report to make at
this time under this heading. The number of principals to be
consulted and teachers to be visited is so great that only general
impressions can be given for the present.

The Aldine method for the teaching of reading, which was
adopted two years ago, is bearing full fruit now. The work in
reading, particularly in the primary grades, is deserving of
great commendation.

It was indeed happy thought and plan which led former
superintendents to put special stress on home geography.
Every boy and girl ought to know the geography and the his  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
tory of his home town or city. In the formal study of the sub- |
ject, Holyoke, with its streets, buildings, institutions, industries,
canals, river, railroads, ponds, reservoirs, hills and mountains
furnishes ample opportunity for objective illustration, not only
in geography but also in the related subject, the study of
history. Then, too, the study of home geography develops
local patriotism in the pupil. Every child in Holvoke should
know that he lives in healthy, well-planned, beautiful city,
and should feel that, living, and growing up and working in
this city, he has much to be proud of now and much to hope for
in days to come.

The attendance in the day schools, both high and elementary, is increasing each year as the following table will show:
Total Enrolment and Average Attendance.

December  December  December  |

Enrolment Attendance Earolmeat Atten dene Earolment Attendeace
 , 

In general your Superintendent reports that the elementary day schools are in good condition from the view-point
of educational efficiency. They are supervised by capable
principals, who are ably assisted in their noble work of educating
the children, by generally faithful and efficient body of
teachers.

The writer is of the opinion that complete revision and
reprinting of the course of study for the grades is absolutely
necessary, and he takes up the matter elsewhere in this report.

V. THE HIGH SCHOOL.

The official connection of your Superintendent with the
public school system of Holyoke has been so brief that he has
not had the opportunity and pleasure of observing the work of
the teachers in the Holyoke High School, or of becoming properly familiar with the courses of study and the methods of
instruction and supervision that obtain in this institution.
He has, however, observed in general way that the school is
in good condition; that its teaching force is strong, capable ,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
and enthusiastic; that its certificate is honored by all the higher
institutions which grant certificate privileges; and that its
students, who in their school days followed the advice of their
teachers and did their work faithfully and well, are now doing
credit to themselves and to the Holvoke High School in normal
schools, in colleges, in technical institutions or in their chosen
field of endeavor.

At this time there is no educational institution in the
country so roundly criticised as the public high school. It is
accused of driving girls and boys into the streets, of extending
special educational privileges to few, of improperly educating the majority of its pupils or not educating them at all,
and of doing little or nothing for the pupil whose formal education ends on the day of his graduation from the high school.
There is no high school which is doing all that it should do for its
pupils, nor is there government which is doing all that it should
do for its citizens. They are both doing what they can, and in
this age of rush and criticism and commercialism and changing
political and educational standards, they are ever planning
to do more and better.

It is the opinion of the writer that the plan for high schools
which obtains in our largest cities may well be introduced in
Holyoke as soon as the proposed so-called technical building is
constructed. The first and second floors of the present high

school building may be used for the classes that would attend
a “General” or ‘‘Classical” or “English” high school; the
third floor may be used as “High School of Commerce.” In
the new building may be organized school for pupils who do
not see ahead of them the business office, the normal school,
the college or the technical institution. It might be called an
industrial high school, manual training high school, vocational school. The name is not important, but the object of
the school is important, for it should aim to help our boys and
girls “‘to live life worth living and in that life to make good
living.” The planning and organizing of such school will
be the biggest task ever faced by Holyoke School Committee.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

In report which follows, Principal Conant has covered
the details of the work done in the Holyoke High School. A
statement of what has been accomplished in the High School
in physical training, manual training for boys, sewing, drawing
and music will be found in the reports of the supervisors of
these special subjects. Principal Conant says:

“My seventh annual report will follow along the lines of
the fifth annual report made in  will begin with matters
of general importance and then take up each department in
the school separately.

Several changes have been made in the faculty. Mr.
Franklin B. Dowd, the head of the modern language department, resigned in August to accept similar position in the
Technical High School in Newton, Mass. His  successor,
Donald Mackenzie, Ph. D., graduate of Boston University
and of the University of Pennsylvania, has had several years
of experience in teaching, both in secondary schools and colleges.
Mr. George W. MacDow of the commercial department resigned
for the purpose of further study in New York University;
he was sucded by Mr. Clyde B. Edgeworth, graduate of
Manchester College, Indiana, who had been teaching in North' ampton, Pennsylvania. Mr. Clifford S. Webber of the manual
training department accepted position during the year in
the Newark, New Jersey, High School, and was sucded in
September by Mr. Chester B. Park, graduate of the Boston
Normal Art School and teacher of several years experience.
Miss Carolyn M. Swiney asked for year’s leave of absence and
to her position was appointed Miss Mary F. Riley, graduate
of Smith College and for the past two years teacher in the
Pittsheld High School. Miss Lucy A. Hifle also asked for a
leave of absence. Her place was filled by Mr. John C. Varney,
a graduate of Dartmouth College and of Harvard University,
with experience in teaching in Macon, Missouri. ‘Two additional teachers were employed; Miss Madeline L. Slade, graduate of the Salem Normal Schoo] and for number of years a
teacher of commercial branches; and Mr. Thomas J. McCoy,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
formerly principal of the Ingleside School, who was transferred
to the High School and given work as special teacher for
first year students in French, Latin, English and history.

An important change was made in the commencement program. In place of having the nine honor students
as speakers, Dr. John H. Finley, President of the College of the
City of New York, gave an address appropriate to the occasion.
While there are many arguments in favor of having the honor
students speak at commencement, only very small percentage
of the class can be represented in that way, and man prominent
in educational work can bring to the class and to the audience
an inspiration that would hardly be obtained from the pupils
themselves. It would be best, in my opinion, to continue
this plan at least for another year. The honor students were
as follows: Donna Beatrice Allyn, Gerald James Callahan,
Josephine Lucile Cooley, Claude Milton Haggerty, Dorothy
Seaver McLeod, William Russell B. Peck, Harold Bridgman
Stedman, Catharine Weiser, and Kate Hardy Whitmore.

The graduating class numbered  slight increase over
the class of  Manv of the pupils have continued their
work in colleges, normal schools and special schools. One
or more of the graduates of this school entered in September one of the following institutions: Harvard, Yale, Cor- nell, Williams, Dartmouth, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, University of Michigan, Holy Cross, Colby,
Syracuse, Baltimore Medical School, Tufts Medical School,
Smith College, Mount Holyoke College, Pratt Institute, Simmons, Framingham Normal, Westfield Normal. Reports
received so far indicate that all of the students are doing well
in their advanced studies. With one or two exceptions the
records of our graduates who entered in the fall of was
very satisfactory. think it will compare favorably with the
record of an equal number of students from any one preparatory or high school in New England.

Worcester Polytechnic Institute has just renewed its
certificate privilege of three years, the same expiring in Decem  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ber  Union College has agreed to give to this school an
annual scholarship to any graduate prepared for admission,
who desires to enter the academic department of that institution.

A very thorough test of the sight and hearing of all
high school pupils is now being carried on and will soon be
completed. The results show that large percentage of high
school pupils have normal sight and hearing. In many cases !
this is not true however, and in some instances very little effort
has been made by either school or home to remedy the conditions. Each may be somewhat at fault, and it is the purpose
of the school to keep closer watch on these matters and follow
up all cases of defective sight or hearing and try to cooperate
with the home so that the child, as far as possible, may be
provided with every possible means of overcoming the natural
disadvantage that physical defects make in the advancement |
of the pupil in his school work.

It would also be quite desirable to have regular dental
inspections. This perhaps could not be done efficiently by
the teachers, but might be accomplished by the efforts of the
medical examiner and the generosity of the local dentists.
Much better health and more continuous work would be, I
believe, the result of thorough-going dental clinic.

‘The regular Memorial Day exercises were appropriately
observed with an address by Miss Anna Dawes, daughter
of the late Senator Dawes. Her subject was “Presidents I
Have Known.”’ Her remarks were made interesting by frequent
anecdotes of personal experiences with presidents from Lincoln
to Roosevelt. As usual, the Grand Army attended in body
and many of the friends and patrons of the school were in the
audience.

Two interscholastic debates were held during the year: |
the first, triangular debate in which Melrose and Springfield High Schools participated. Our team debated both at
home and in Springfield. Unfortunately, Holyoke lost both
debates, Melrose winning at home and in Holyoke. The

 REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
subject of the debate was Resolved, ““That United States
‘Senators Should be Elected by Popular Vote.” Later in the
spring, joint debate was held between the Assembly of this
school and the Agora Socfety of the Technical High School of
Springfield. This was won by the Holvoke team. The subject of the debate was, Resolved, ‘““That Cities Should Have the
Commission Form of Government.”

The Annual Prize Speaking Contest was won by William
Peck. He represented the school later at the Interscholastic
Contest held at Syracuse University.

More than ever the school is endeavoring to keep in touch
with the-home and by doing this hopes to establish better
understanding of the needs of the pupils and acquire greater
ability to meet these needs.

A modification of some of the courses no doubt will be
desirable and these should be taken up carefully and should
be changed with the sole idea of making the school more
efficient in the training of our pupils to properly meet the
present day demands. While the school prepares for college,
it does great deal more than this, and while not neglecting
the few needing special attention, the courses are planned for
the greatest good to the greatest number. The teaching and
scope of subjects should be modified from time to time to meet
the demands of the pupils who are willing to give their hours
and energy to school work.

In reporting on the separate departments of the school
it has been my intention of showing how the different depart- ments may correlate with each other and may have some
connection with the life of the student, both in and outside
of the school building. Many of our courses are being made
more practical and suited to the demands of the large number
seeking admission to our high school.

a
English Department.

With the growth of the school there has been corresponding increase in this department. All regularly enrolled pupils

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

are obliged to take this subject. They report four times week
throughout each of the four years. Eight teachers, including
the head of the department, are engaged in the English work,
five of them giving their entire time, and three large proportion of their time to this subject. In the first year classes  
pupils are enrolled, in second year classes, in the third
year, and in the fourth year classes.

Nearly all colleges require four years of English and all
of the students entering college from this school were eithet
certified or examined in this subject. To enter by certificate students must have standing of “‘B,” which is
equivalent to per cent. If the mark is below this, pupil
must take an examination, the college assuming part of the
responsibility for the student’s preparation. This is not only
true of the English department, but of all the other departments of the school.

The first year work in English includes study of the
following books: Hawthorne’s Tales of New England, Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, Irving’s Alhambra, Cooper’s Last of
the Mohicans, and Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal. The regular
textbook for the class is Hitchcock’s Enlarged Practice Book.
One period in every seven is given to theme writing and criticism. The first themes are short narratives of two paragraphs.
Later, narratives of from one to three pages may be introduced.
At the close of the first half of the year the exercise book
should contain ten complete themes. large proportion of
these are on subjects taken from the experience of the pupils.
Spelling, punctuation and grammar are emphasized throughout
this course. NMflemorizing is not carried to an extreme, but
certain standard short selections are used for this purpose,
such as Lincoln’s Gettsburg Address, and Emerson’s Fable of
the Mountain and the Squirrel.

The principles of letter writing make an important part
of this work. Rhetoric is introduced with the study of figures
of sph in simple way.

In the second year, practically the same books are studied

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
as noted in my report of  The studv of Hitchcock’s
Practice Book is continued. Genung’s Outlines of Rhetoric
is also made part of the work. Exercise books are used for
themes, and here as in the first year, large proportion of the
themes are from outside sources, the idea being to keep the
English work in touch with the life of the pupil and to make
that life better and more serviceable by close correlation with
the students’ experiences and aims. Students are required to
do oral reading and the teacher in turn reads occasionally to
the class from standard authors. The theme work is largely
descriptive with review of narration.

In the third and fourth years, more critical study is
made of the books required for college entrance. While these
are made to some extent basis of the work, they do not, by
any means, so influence the teaching of third and fourth year
English that thecollege preparatory students get all of the
benefits. It is constantly borne in mind that the larger proportion of students will not enter college, and the work must
be largely adapted to such pupils. In the study of exposition
and argument, which has this year been made prominent
feature of the fourth year English, the work is equally beneficial to the college and non-college preparatory student. One
hour week is devoted exclusively to the work in debate,
Mr. Varney meeting each section of fourth year English for
this part of the work. separate mark in debating is given
each fourth year pupil, and he is required to report but three
times week to the regular fourth year English teacher. If
this works out for the remainder of the year as satisfactorily as
it has for the first twelve weeks, it is planned to give the third
year class separate work in debate next year. The subjects
considered in the debating sections are those connected with
the life of the pupils as well as some of the present day problems
that are being discussed in the newspapers and in legislative
bodies.

Each class in other departments of the school is toa certain extent class in English. At faculty meetings this point

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
has been discussed and recommendations made looking towards
the application of the principlesof good English, in the written
and spoken English in all school work. Only by doing this can
we expect the study of English to be of the greatest possible
value to the pupil.

Classical Department.

The enrolment in the Classical Department for this

year is as follows: First year Latin  Caesar  Cicero  ;

Virgil  first year Greek  Anabasis  Iliad  Thirty
pupils used Latin and four used Greek as college entrance subjects in September  There is strong tendency among
the Latin teachers to depart from the set way in which Latin
has been taught for number of years. The book used in this
school for the first year, Hale’s Latin Book, develops the subject
along new and interesting lines. The revised book which has
already been ordered and will soon be placed in the hands of the pupils, to still greater extent makes Latin live subject,
and one in which the boy or girl becomes more interested. —
In addition to this book in the first year classes, Fabulae
Faciles and twelve chapters of the first Book of Caesar are
covered.

In the second year the work consists of four books of
Caesar, seven Lives of Nepos and Barss’ Prose Composition,
Part one; and in the third year, seven orations from Cicero,
including Marcellus and selections from Sallust, with Barss’
Prose Composition, Part II. In the fourth year, six books of
Virgil, fifteen hundred lines of Ovid, Bennett’s Prose Composition and ReviewofGrammar. Throughout the course, grammar
study is made an important part of the work. Outside refer- |
ences, sight reading and correlated prose work are used for the
purpose of making the study of Latin more of an end in itself
rather than simply means of preparing for college.

The study of Greek is as far as possible along the same
lines as thatofLatin. It is suggested that the Manual Training
Department may effectively co-operate with this department


|
:
.
.
: REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
|
by making collection of models from year to year, illustrating |
the classics, such as wooden replica of the gladius, pilum,
miniature models of Caesar’s bridge, and many others.
In teaching the grammar part of the work there is |
distinct correlation with English and foreign languages. This |
may be brought about by emphasizing the relation of Latin to |
the grammar of other languages.
At the meeting of the Classical Teachers’ Association of
Western Massachusetts, the Cooking Department of the school
provided and served luncheon for the members who attended, !
numbering about sixty. |
Modern Language Department.
The enrolment in the first year German classes is  ;
in the second year,  third year,  The enrolment in the .
French classes is as follows: First year  second year, ;
third year  .
The books studied in the German and French are those
recommended for college entrance. Both the texts and the
grammar are used in supplementing each other throughout the
three years’ study of these languages.
There is one class in Spanish and the enrolment is  .
Should the demand increase for second year class in this
subject it would be advisable to grant such request. Spanish
is used in connéction with the commercial department as many
of the pupils in the class in Spanish take the commercial —
course. In most of the high schools of commerce in the
large cities the Spanish language is made required study.
Business men whose interests lie in Cuba, Porto Rico, the
Philippines or in the tremendously growing South American
trade demand that many of their agents have good knowledge
of Spanish.
German and French are both made, as far as possible,
subjects which may be put to practical uses. Most of the
work in the class room is carried on in either French or German,
as the case may be. The toreign language is the language of

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
the class room in the advanced classes. pupil who puts into |
the subject fair degree of work should at the end of the third
year be able to speak and read the language with fair degree
of fluency. Magazines and papers printed in foreign languages
are used constantly in the class rooms. Charts and maps cor- '
relating with these subjects are in frequent use. Outside of
the class, the French and German Clubs carry out this idea of
practical application in more informal but equally beneficial
manner.

Department of Mathematics.

The number enrolled in this department ts as follows:
First year algebra,  plane geometry,  solid geometry,
 advanced algebra and trigonometry,  review algebra
and geometry,  .

In the first year Hedrick’s Algebra is studied as far as
progressions. The grammar school work takes the pupils
through the subject of division, and on entering the high school
they begin algebra with the subject of factoring. In plane
geometry Sander’s textbook is used. The work is not studied
strictly as outlined in the text, but rearranged so as to admit
of logical sequence of propositions including constructions.
Thus, in the beginning, the student is taught to use his compass
intelligently. The study of originals is made an important
feature of the work. Advanced and solid geometry is more
strictly subject for admission to technical schools and is studied
with this largely in view. This is also true in the advanced
algebra and trigonometry. study of review algebra and plane
geometry is placed in the fourth year to prepare the students
for work in the higher schools and to give them in their more
mature high school years review of the subjects which they
had in more elementary way in the first and second vears,
thus fixing in their minds quite definitely before they leave
the high school the principles of these two important subjects.

A better articulation of algebra from grammar school to
high school has been considered by the department for long

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
time. plan looking to that end was submitted to the
school department over year ago but was not acted upon.

The proposition is that the principals of the grammar schools
jointly with the head of the mathematics department in the ...
high school choose an algebra to be used in both the ninth
grades and the first year in the high sch l. It is hoped in

this way to save retardation due to changing texts on entering

the high school. If the grammar schools will take then, as they

do now, certain minimum of algebra, the high school can take

up the work where it ended in the grammar school without
appreciable loss.

At present there seems to be in the minds of pupils a
feeling that the work done in the grammar schools is not |
important, is intended to be simply introductory to the work
to follow, and is to be gone over again in the high school. It
is believed that the proposed arrangement will dignify the grammar school work in algebra in the minds of those taking it and
thus strengthen the work and make time for some geometry
in the first year in the high school. To use common phrase
the plan proposed should “‘take up slack” now existing.

In greater or less degree the work in mathematics enters
into the work of the other departments in the school. In
particular: History furnishes data of manv kinds which are
pictured in specially informing way by graphs. The mathematics teaching reinforces certain lines of history work by
instructing in the construction of graphs to represent the 
relations of givendate. Commercial history is aided in the same
way as general history. In accounts, many financial relations
are strikingly exhibited by graphs. The treatment of graphs
for the uses noted above is especially complete in Hedrick’s
Algebra. Physics and astronomy are largely dependent on
mathematics, as the quantitative side is large in those sciences.
Chemistry, as taught in secondary schools demands only elementary mathematical operations. Language is fortified by
the formal side of mathematics, the accuracy of demonstrations, especially in geometry, training in preciseness and

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

conciseness in the use of words. Mechanical Drawing is purely
geometric as is Art work. Manual Arts are dependent in various
degrees on mathematics.

From the article, ‘Mathematics in High School Education”
just published by Scribner’s, is taken this suggestive paragraph
entitled Oral Work: “Oral work has unfortunately been confined largely to arithmetic. In algebra and geometry many
problems may be adapted to oral treatment. The fact is that
clear exposition of the method to be employed in solving ten
simple geometric exercises, without setting the pencil to
paper, is worth much more than the same time devoted to a
single difficult exercise. Not only this, but the fundamental
principles are more clearly exemplified in the less difficult
examples. Simultaneous blackboard work for the whole
class, on the contrary, has occupied too much teaching time
in algebra and geometry. Arelatively greater proportion of
time should be given to written seat work and oral work.
These best prepare for the actual problems of life which are
both oral and written.

Science Department.

The enrolment in Elementary Science is  in Chemistry,  in Biology,  in Physical and Commercial Geography,  in Advanced Physics,  .

No regular textbook is used in the classes of Elementary
Science. In this work the pupil receives his first training in
the laboratory method of.work. The experience is entirely

. new to him and the skill he acquires here serves as an excellent
basis for creditable work in subsequent science subjects. An effort is made to enable the student to see the working of scientific

laws at home and out of doors: viz.—laws of heat, light, and
of gases, as exhibited tn the heating, lighting and ventilation
of the home and school; gas, water and electric meter readings,
and trips to the city reservoirs and to the municipal gas-plant.
Physics has been the basis of the work in this course as it,
perhaps, more than any other science furnishes concrete

 
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
material that is ready at hand for the pupil. However, other
subjects can be drawn upon to greater extent than in the past:
For example-—the nature of simple chemicai substance in connection with the voltaic cell.

In Biology, Atkinson’s Botany is used as text while
Coulter’s “Plants” is used for reference work. Other books
are used by individual pupils for reference on special topics.
This course is perhaps moretruly Botany with animal kingdom
correlations introduced wherever it seems advisable. Some
of the common insect pests and means of extermination are
studied.

In pure Botany the life history of at least one member of
each plant sub-kingdom is studied in the laboratory. Field
trips are held in the afternoon during the fall and spring, to
enable the pupil to recognize the laboratory specimen at first
hand. .

In general biology or zoology the Protozoa are compared
to the one-celled plants. Bacteria are especially considered.
Last year visit was made by group of pupils to the bacteriological laboratory at the City Hall, where the city bacteriologist
exhibited specimens under the microscope and gave talk
on the practical phases of the subject. The work and life
habits of the mosquito, house fly, brown-tail and gypsy moth
and methods of dealing with them are studied. short course
in Physiology is included in the work of the year. |

In Physiography, “Physiography for High Schools,” a
new textbook by Arey, Bryant, Clendenin and Morey, as used,
and “A Manual of Physical Geography,” by Tarr and Von
Engeln, comprises the laboratory work followed. The geography of the locality is studied out of doors by means of field
trips which serve as means of making practical application

ofthe subject. The pupil in this way learns to read the unusual
geographic display in this valley.

Since Commercial Geography has been taken from the

Commercial Department, it is taught in connection with the
Physical Geography. This is thought to bring better results

|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
than by separating the two subjects which, in many ways, are |
| very closely connected. The Commercial and Physical condi- |
tions of country are impossible of separation, and this is the |
basic idea of the combination of the two subjects in this school.

With the growth of the school it will soon be imperative |
to have larger laboratory facilities. It is now necessary to :
carry on two subjects in the same room, while the classes in
chemistry crowd to the limit our present chemical laboratory. |
If new building is erected there should be provided suitable
laboratory facilities.

, History Department.

The enrolment in the History classes is as follows: United
States History, five-hour course,  three-hour course,  ;

Review Ancient History,  Ancient History,  English
History  .

Ancient History is offered in the first year; English and
Review History in the third year; and United States History
in the fourth year. Irish history is offered the second semester
of the year. The classes in Review Ancient History, English
History, and Elementary Ancient History report three times
a week throughout the year.

The course in United States History is planned to give
the pupil an understanding of the development of his country
from the earliest days to the present. The study of the problems
of the past helps to give the right perspective to our present
day problems, and to prepare us for those of the future. The
course is intended to lay foundation for intelligent citizenship.

A certain definite proportion of the time is spent in the study
of civics and of current topics of state and national importance.
Constant attention is given to reference work in both the public
and school libraries, as well as to periodicals and current
newspapers. It is planned next year to give an elementary
social science course in the second year, so that all students
who attend the school for at last two years will have some fair
knowledge of the economic and social questions of the day,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
and be better fitted to intelligently discuss and participate in
solving these problems.

The Review Ancient History is largely college entrance
subject, and open to those students who have already pursued
the three-hour course in their first year. It would probably be
better for the students who are not in college preparatory
courses to spend their time upon some other history, such as
Modern History, covering the period from to A. D.

In English History, the outline as given in “A History
Syllabus for Secondary Schools” is followed. Two text books
are used, thus doing away with some of the reference work as
required in United States History. Frequent applications are
made to existing conditions in the United States by using points
of similarity or contrast taken from facts in English History.

The Ancient History course is carried along the same
lines given in my last report. Comparisions between ancient
governments and present day conditions are constantly brought
to the attention of the pupil.

Commercial Department.

To date there has been enrolled different pupils.
In classes they are taking work as follows: in Advanced
Bookkeeping; in First Year Bookkeeping;  Commercial Arithmetic;  Penmanship;  Advanced Stenography; beginning Stenographyv; Typewriting: Commercial Review. There is constant and increasing demand

for our graduates in local offices. These pupils are almost
without exception giving good account of themselves.

As to the work correlating with the work of other departments, something might be done in connection with the freehand drawing department looking toward the development of
a class in show card writing for counter and window display.

!
|
|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE ,
It would be advisable to purchase dictaphone or |
phonograph for use in the typewriting room. These machines ;
are now in so general use that our pupils should have some |
experience in using them. |
Mechanical Drawing Department.
There are pupils enrolled in this department, divided
as follows: The fourth year class,  third year class,  ;
second year class,  and first year class,  The average in
each class is about  .
Boys who intend to use this subject for college entrance or
for further study are given special instruction to prepare them
for advanced work. The work, in the main, for the four years
is along the lines indicated in my last report. One feature of
the work that is emphasized is the drawing directly from
machines such as the pump and electricmotor. Asthisislargely
a practical subject, the call for boys for positions in home
offices exds the supply. Recommendation is given by the
instructor of this department that descriptive geometry be
introduced in the last half of the senior year. This would pave |
the way for better work by our students when they enter higher |
technical schools.
Elocution Department.
The number enroled in this department is  The
aims in this department are to develop good voice, to encourage the students in clear, forcible, intelligent expression
of the spoken word. The work is based in part upon Emerson’s
Evolution of Expression, Volumes I, II, and III. Classes
report two hours week throughout the year. First year
students are not admitted to this subject, but others may
elect two years of the subject in the last three years of the
course. In addition to the regular class work in elocution,
the teacher drills the pupils taking part in public exercises
connected with the school as well as those taking part in the
annual dramatic performance.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Cooking Department.

The enrolment in this department is as follows: First
year,  second year,  There is two years course in cooking. There is close connection between certain principles of
chemistry and physics and those of cooking, and in another
year it is expected that there will be correlation between
these departments, especially along the lines of chemistry of
foods. Many principles of physics might be taught to advantage
as in the instruction on the use and purposes of the coal and
gas ranges. Physiology also offers large field of correlation
in the study of absorption and digestion. All girls now taking
the course are required to take the biology work. The art
course can assist the cooking classes by instruction in lessons
on color, table decorations and designs for menus.

Gymnasium and Industrial School. |

Early in the school year invitations were sent to the
Mayor, the School Board, Chairman of the Board of Aldermen, President of the Alumni Association, the President of
the Board of Trade and the members of the Industrial Commission, to attend mass meeting in the high school auditorium on the morning of September  th. The response to
these invitations showed great interest in the new gymnasium
project, which was the subject under consideration. The
speakers at this meeting were: Mayor John J. White, Superintendent of Schools, Francis McSherry; Chairman of the School
Board, Mr. Terence O’Donnell; President of the Board of
Trade, Mr. W. H. Bullard; President of the High School
Alumni Association, Judge R. A. Allyn; Principal John J.
Lynch, and Mr. John McCormick, both graduates of the school
and interested in athletics; and Miss Margaret M. Powers
who has charge of the girls’ physical training classes. The
meeting was presided over by Leo Humphrey, President of
the High School Athletic Association. With one accord the
speakers agreed upon the necessity of building suitable gymnasium. Already steps have been taken to acquire the land
opposite the high school building and in short time it  s

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
believed that the work will be begun on the construction of
the building. In connection with this it would be desirable
to have building that could be used for the industrial part
of the high school work, which is growing and must be soon
developed along lines in keeping with the activities of our
busy industrial city. When this building is completed, and an
athletic field provided in this vicinity, Holyoke will have as
complete high school plant as can be found in this country;
. and it should return from year to year greater value to the city
| by giving to it better developed and more efficient citizens.

In this report have endeavored to show something of
the present as well as of the future plans of the school. To do
this, even to the extent of this rather lengthy report, reveals
but inadequately the real work of the school. trust the
combined efforts of all who have the interests of the high school
at heart will produce results that will show that the work here
has not been in vain.”

VI. SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS.
Upon recommendation of your Superintendent and by
: vote of the school committee special departments have been
: organized as follows:

Manual Training, Edwin M. Roberts, Supervisor.

Domestic Arts, Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins, Supervisor.

Drawing, Mrs. Isabelle H. Ferry, Supervisor.

Writing, Esther A. MacDonald, Supervisor.

| Music, Hugh Craig, Supervisor.

Health and Physical Training, Laurence F. Dowd,
Supervisor.

The reports of these departments follow in the order given
above. Domestic Science, that is Cookerv and Foods, is not
vet organized as department, although in certain sense it
is one. Miss Helen B. Cronin has charge of the classes in the
high school and has been instructing the girls of the ninth grades.
Her work in the grades has been necessarily interrupted by
the organization of the boys’ manual training classes and the
sewing classes in the seventh, eighth and ninth grades.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

| Manual Training.
Of all the special subjects which, in recent years, have
found place in the programs of the public schools of our
country, manual training is the most popular and the most
universally accepted. Manual training for boys has not as
its aim the making of boys into tradesmen. Aiming rather to
train the hands, to make hands and brain work in unison, to
form in the boy habits of neatness and correctness, to develop
mechanical skill and love of order, aiming at these things as
manual training does, there is nothing strange in the fact
that so many educators have recognized its advantages.
Perhaps too many things are claimed for manual training. We
read that most of its aims as stated above are completely
realized; we are told that it increases interest in other school
work; that it is remedy for “mortality” in that it keeps boys
in school; that it paves the way to good trades; that it is physical and moral help and that it makes for industry and thrift.
Manual training has really justified in reasonable degree
many of the claims made for it. No school system is complete
without this branch. Here in Holyoke, manual training is
built on solid foundations. In the fall of  three years after
the passage of the state law compelling the teaching of manual
training in the high school in cities of twenty thousand inhabitants or more, class in wood-working was opened in the
local high school. In the boys of the ninth grades were
receiving instruction in the subject, !n compliance with another
state law passed in making instruction in manual training
compulsory in the elementary schools. For some years the
work continued, carried on at times by its own momentum,
but most frequently by the voluntarv efforts of regular teachers
who labored under the handicap of poor equipment and no
organization. During this period and up to November,  ,
the work in the high school was strengthened by adding year
in woodworking, and the course for the ninth grade bovs was
much improved. In November,  after many years of
discussing and recommending, great impetus was given to

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

manual training in Holyoke by the equipping of rooms for this
work at the West Street School and at the Morgan School.
Later similar rooms were equipped at the Highland School
and at the Joseph Metcalf School. At the present time every
boy in grades seven, eight and nine and some boys in grade
six spend at least one hour week at manual training. In
the High School there is now three-year course in the subject, —
but unfortunately, no provision is made as yet for metal work.
Your attention is called to the following report of Mr. Edwin MI.
Roberts, Supervisor of Manual Training:

“Last vear the School Committee voted to equip rooms
for manual training in the basements of the West Street,
Morgan, Highland and Joseph Metcalf Schools and to give
the seventh and eighth grade boys, as well as the ninth grade
boys, the benefits of manual work. By so doing the Committee has not only brought the Holyoke schools under the
spirit of the state law but also has enabled every boy to test
his ability with tools at the bench before he may be compelled
to leave school either from lack of interest in books or because
his help is needed to add to the family income.

This plan has more than doubled the manual training
work in the schools. One hour per week is spent in manual
training in grade seven and in grade eight and one and half
hours in grade nine. Some pupils in the Appleton Street School
however are scheduled for an hour but actually receive only
about forty minutcs of instructon since, owing to the lack of
equipment in that building, they are obliged to travel to the
high school. This deficiency will soon be remedied by double
period plan.

The work is carefully graded in order to bring into use
the simple tools and the construction of such small articles of
wood as will interest the pupils and be of use in their home life. |
The course must be modified at present since all grades are
starting this year with no knowledge of the work. In two
years the present seventh grade classes should be following a
consistent and regular program.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

In the High School one hundred and five pupils are enrolled
in the manual training department. Seventy-two are registered
in the first year class, twenty-two in the second and ten in the
third. The largest section of the first year class numbers
twenty-four; the smallest section numbers ten. In the second
year class the larger section numbers fifteen and the smaller
seven.

The course of study in this work in the High School is
gradually being shaped to form continuous hold with the work
in the grades. The first half of the first year is spent in joinery,
making the common joints and fasteners such as the half-lap,
slip mortise and tenon, through mortise and tenon, miter or
picture frame joint, single and common dovetail joint and panel
joint. The second half of the year is spent in furniture construction, using the joints learned in the first half of the year.
Appreciation of simplicity in lines and design is taught, conforming the designs to the use and nature of the material,
thus developing better taste for good home furnishings rather
than cheap and glittering machine made pieces. In the second ,
year wood turning is studied the first half and pattern making
left for the second half of the year when the pupils have
developed sufficiently to have reasonable comprehension of
simple pattern making. The various processes of cylinder
turning, shouldering, tapers, beads, flutes, rapid handle turning, face plating, plankwise turning, chucking and mandrell
turning are taken up. Some better provision for molding and
casting in soft metal the patterns made by the pupils would
aid them in understanding this work. The third year work
has been confined to review of cabinet making or advanced
pattern making. No equipment has been provided for course
in metal work. start should be made this year by purchasing two or three machine lathes so that these third vear pupils
may prepare for the metal working and shop practice required
at scientific schools or may fit themselves to earn living in
the shop. During the past year permanent equipment has
been added in the form of new double circular saw, foot

|
|
|
-  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
mortiser, and very recently Crescent jointer which will help
to do the rough heavy work on hard woods like oak in furniture making. Formerly pupils paid to have this work done
at mill.
Speaking generally on accommodations, it is matter
of regret that basement rooms had to be taken for this work.
It is hoped that for the Appleton Street School lightsome,
airy, dry, upstairs room may be equipped. The present equip, ment in each of the four grammar buildings consists of twenty
Sheldon benches with rapid acting vise and full set of tools.
This number should be increased to twenty-four, or the number
of boys in each room should be limited to twenty. Suitable
wooden floors have been laid in these rooms by the Board of
Public Works except at Morgan School where the benches are
bolted into the damp cement floor. The discomfort, if not
. the injury to health of teacher and pupils, from standing on
this cold floor, to say nothing of the number of tools which |
have already been broken by being dropped by janitor or
pupils would largely offset the cost of suitable wooden floor. :
The benches are also shaking loose from the cement, although
they have been used for less than six months.
In conclusion would suggest that the drawing department co-operate with the manual training department in the
work that is being done, not only in the three upper grammar
grades but also in the three High School classes. The pupils
in the High School might benefit by making, in the drawing
department, mechanical drawings of all original designs for
furniture. The teachers might make their courses in arithmetic more interesting and practical by taking actual problems
from the shop. Good live subjects for study in English classes
may be the various woods and their growth or the development
and use of some of the common tools.”
Domestic Arts.
It may be well to explain here that the expression ‘‘Mf{anual
Training” as used above refers to classes of boys. Certainly

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
sewing, dressmaking, millinery and cookery are forms of manual
training, but it is now the practice among educators to include
the first three under the expression “‘Domestic Arts” and to
place cookery under “Domestic Science.”

It may be of interest to know that sewing was taught in
| all the grades in the Hamilton Street School in  Four
years later it became part of the course of instruction in several
other schools. Manual training for the boys, which was taught
in parallel with the sewing, seems to have been given first
consideration and consequently the sewing classes gradually
disappeared. Some years later sewing became part of the course
in the High School and an important subject in the ninth grades
as well. The results which have been obtained have justified
the school officials in enlarging the scope of the work in the
High School and in requiring that all the girls in the seventh,
eighth and ninth grades in the city be taught to sew. Following is the report of Mrs. Flizabeth Perkins, Supervisor in the
subject:
“The registration for sewing in the High School tor was about one hundred, which made large classes for four
periods and left sufficient time for the teacher to instruct five
ninth grade classes in the afternoon. In the fall of one
hundred and fifty-three pupils registered, and we formed six
classes, two in advanced work and four first year classes. The
articles made in the High School for both these years have been
of practical nature. The work at Easter-time and for month
previous to the Christmas vacation has been varied for those
who have finished certain amount of plain sewing by the teaching of hem-stitching and embroidery to apply to the making
of gifts. In all these cases several gifts have been made for
about the usual cost of one. As the teacher at the High School
had no time to teach the grades, two teachers have been added
since the fall, and now all seventh, eighth and ninth grade
girls are given one lesson week in practical sewing, very
little time being spent on samplers. These are onlv used, in
fact, to practise stitches before applying them to garment.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
The object of all grade work will be to render the girls helpful in the making and care of their own clothes, and also to give
them the power to assist in the sewing done at home. Beginning with the New Year any girl who comes to sewing lesson
with tear in her dress or with buttons missing from dress or
shoes will be instructed in repairing these damages. Thus
we hope soon to have less carelessness in dress among our
pupils. .
There is one recommendation for the classes in the High
School which is very important. We have now only forty |
minutes for each class. Some little time is taken from this for
closing and putting up the work, and as our classes average
twenty-five, less than minute and half can be given to each
pupil. The work in these classes is almost entirely individual
as each pupil furnishes her own patterns and materials for her
garments. Both patterns and materials vary so widely that
individual work is necessity. So, having satisfied myself
that the pupils in the elementary schools do not weary of their
work in an hour and twenty minutes, would ask for double
periods for sewing in the High School when schedules are made
out for another year. Six sewing machines, adequate electric
drop lights, an electric iron, and an excellent fitting room have
been added to our equipment during the year, and everything
seems favorable for an unusually successful year in the sewing
department.
Quite number of seniors have signified their willingness
to make their dresses for graduation, and if this practise can
be established heavy burden of commencement expense will
be eliminated for the girls in this department.
The work in sewing now being done in the grades means
that within few years the work in sewing in the High School
must be made broader and more extensive.”
Drawing.
The department of drawing has splendid plan of work
for the grades and for the high school, together with supervisor and two assistants qualified in every way to work out the
,

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
details of their outline and give most excellent instruction both
to the teachers and the pupils of the Holyoke schools. In
order that the teachers may receive instruction at stated
time, your Superintendent has arranged the following schedule
of teachers’ drawing classes, held on the first four Mondays of
each month at the Appleton Street building:

Ist Monday Miss Lynn Grades and Mrs. Dougherty Grade  nd  and rd “Grade “os th Mrs. Ferry Grade  

In making her report of work done in the Drawing Department, Mrs. Ferry says:

“The outline of the course in drawing, or art education,
was thoroughly revised last year. Few radical changes were
found necessary, although some very desirable topics were
omitted on account of the lack of time. The course has been
carefully planned with view to securing the best possible
results in the limited amount of time that is devoted to this
subject. The different topics are taken up at the time of
year when they can be studied to the best advantage—color
and nature work in the spring and fall; mechanical and object
drawing in the winter; design in connection with special occasions when it can be applied to constructed objects. Special
emphasis is placed upon constructive and decorative design as
a means of affording the pupil an opportunity for individual
expression. Each grade deals with its own problems, which
are adapted to the ability and the interests of the pupils in that
grade. Inthe primary grades the children learn many important
lessons and find much pleasure in constructing the following
objects:

Grade One.—Teddy bear, Christmas tree, wagon, furniture.

Grade Two.—Santa Claus, rocking-horse, farm buildings.

Grade Three.—Village houses and buildings, Christmas
box, objects connected with Indian life.

Grade Four.—Objects connected with locomotion, such
as an automobile, electric car or wagon.

|

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

The intermediate and grammar grade pupils are given the
following problems: Christmas work; different kinds of Christmas boxes and Christmas cards decorated with original designs;
applied original designs.

Grade Five.—Mat or sofa pillow.

Grade Six.—Bag with cross-stitch embroidery.

Grade Seven.—Candle shade or mat with cut out design.

Grade Eight.—Sofa pillow with stenciled border.

Grade Nine.—For bovs: square wooden boxes ornamented with designs applied in water color.

For girls: embroidery designs for collars, —
cuffs and shirtwaists.

The results of the pupils’ efforts along these lines have been
in many cases surprisingly successful. An earnest effort has
also been made throughout the year to correlate the drawing,
as much as possible, with other subjects in the school curriculum.

It is sometimes necessary to meet unusual conditions,
and one of our supervisors gives the following interesting account of her work in such case: One of the most pleasing experiences of the year was the supervision of drawing, painting
and constructive work in class of sub-normal pupils. At first
it was rather difficult to attract and hold the attention of these
pupils, and confess was often discouraged when looked
into their unresponsive faces. However, they soon became
alert, gave attention, and manifested keen delight. They often
asked questions, which led me to infer that their thoughts were
moving in the right direction. The first lessons that. aroused
their interest were illustrated nursery stories, one of which
was “Goldilocks and The Three Bears.’’ I[t was wonderful to
note the remarkable sense of proportion that these children
showed in drawing the different sizes of bears, beds, tables,
chairs and dishes. From this we led them to more definite measurements of inches, half-inches and quarter-inches until they were
able to draw from dictation pattern of bird cage, construct
and paint it, and place painted canary inside. Then to the

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
joy of the children the cages were hung about the room giving
it very festive appearance. Several of the children afterwards

drew and constructed another cage with verv little help from
the teacher. The work in drawing and construction certainly
appeared to quicken their minds, and was the means of giving
them many periods of unalloved pleasure.

Another very interesting feature of the vear’s work in
drawing was the bird exhibition at the Highland School last
June. This building is fortunate in possessing notably
fine collection of birds from all parts of the world. The children.
began their study of birds by drawing from the mounted
specimens. The younger children were given the smaller native
birds and the pupils in the higher grades the larger and more
magnificent ones. After very careful penci! drawing had
been made the birds were painted in water color. Compositions were then written about them, and covers were designed
for the compositions, so that the work in English, nature
study and writing were correlated with the drawing and painting. The paintings, as hung at the exhibition, made splendid

| display and showed enthusiastic and intelligent work on the
part of both pupils and teachers.

A contest was held during Mav by the School Arts Book
and thirty-two prizes were awarded to paintings sent by the
Highland School. Mr. William F. Whiting gave sixty prizes
for excellence in drawing and painting the birds, the nucleus
of the collection having been contributed by his father, the
late William Whiting. Mr. E. D. Wells, member of the School
Board, and Mr. Lewis Perkins also gave several prizes. The
exhibition attracted great deal of attention and was certainly
an unqualified success.

Excellent design work was done in many of the schools and |
itwas made doubly valuable by its application to useful articles.
The revised outline has been closely followed in most cases in
the elementary schools and the successful results secured seem to
indicate that this outline offers satisfactory course in drawing.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

A serious and systematic study of the principles involved
in any given line of work is feature of the high school art
course, in which one hundred and twenty pupils are enrolled.
An effort is made to have pupils work independently and intelligently so that they will be able to meet whatever need
may arise. Occasions are constantly recurring, in school
and out, for which the art department is asked to furnish designs
and drawings of various kinds, and the ability that is shown
to supply these demands is proof of the practical value of the
training that the pupils receive. The time has certainly arrived
when education along practical lines, in matters relating to
the pupil's future life, is receiving more attention than ever
before; and no subject is capable of wider application or has
a more practical bearing on nearly every phase of life than the
subject under which we include the study of form, color and
design.

Drawing, painting and design can be correlated more closely with pupil’s home life and outside interests than anv other
subjects in the school curriculum. Training pupil so that he
may know good proportions in form, pleasing harmonies of
color, and the underlying principles of good design will aid him
in choosing intelligently whenever he  called upon to make
a choice concerning his surroundings, whether in matters large
or small. girl trained along these lines ought to be able to
clothe herself in better taste and to make more attractive
home because of this training. Additionally such training
leads to many pleasant and profitable kinds of employment.
The boy with trained hands and eves is far better qualified to
sucd in his life work, whatever it may be, than the one who
lacks such training. In fact, form, color and design have more
or less to do, directly or indirectly, with every activity in which
a person can engage.

Drawing may be correlated with the work in sewing in
that it may suggest designs for embroiderv; in the commercial
department, in that it mav suggest designs in show cards and
advertising; in the cooking department, in designs for menu

|
REPORT OF SCHIOOL COMMITTEE  
cards and color arrangements; in the science department, in
diagrams of apparatus and sketches of specimens, in pencil
and water color; in the language and history departments, in
the making of maps and models and the study of national
costumes, flags, etc.; in the mathematics department, drawings
of geometric figures as required in geometry, and as applied
design; in the Inglish department, through illustration of
descriptive work; in the manual training department, by
designs for ornamenting constructed forms and also by constructive designs. Manual training and art should be closely
correlated, but comparatively few pupils are in both of these
classes.

Another reason why art should have place in the public
school curriculum is that pupils of unusual talent may have an
opportunity of discovering their ability, for it  only by
cultivating the subject in which one excels that one can hope
to attain the greatest success and be of greatest service to the
world. Centuries ago the city of Florence, Italy, set aside each
vear certain sum of money to be devoted to the cause of art.
Any young person who exhibited unusual talent could be
educated at the public expense, because it was thought that
the city and the world were the losers if talent and genius
were not given every opportunity for development. The city
of Holvoke, in something of the same spirit, has been most
generous in providing instruction in many different subjects
to the pupils of its schools, in order that they may be fitted to
become intelligent and usefu! citizens of the city and of the
state.”

Writing.

Your Superintendent has, in general wav, inspected the
writing in the schools, consulted with principals and teachers
on the subject, and observed the methods of teaching writing.
Both teachers and pupils are laboring under great disadvantage, one so great that the results obtained in spite of the
handicap are truly remarkable. The trouble is that there has

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

been no definite, uniform plan of teaching writing in the schools.
Instruction without uniform method forces the pupil year
after year to learn something new and different in penmanship
with every teacher he meets. The final result in most cases  s
cramped, ugly, characterless handwriting, for which the supervisor, the teachers and the pupils are not to blame. The remedy
is at hand in the introduction of the “Palmer Method of Teaching Practical Writing in Graded Schools.” This plan has
proved complete success wherever it has been introduced
and faithfully followed. New York, Chicago and Boston
report that it has given excellent satisfaction and results.
The introduction of the Palmer Method here means little more
work for the teachers in the beginning and perhaps little
additional expense to the city. It is work that is well worth
while. Your Superintendent reports, therefore, that the
, writing in the schools is unsatisfactory on account of the lack
of definite, uniform plan of teaching it and feels confident
that much good will come from the introduction of the Palmer
Method. Following is the report of Miss MacDonnell, Supervisor of Writing:

“The department of writing during the past year has
aimed for progressiveness along lines approved of by the most
modern systems of education. No longer do pupils try laboriously to reproduce sentence, simply attaining perfection of
form. ‘Today we require movement, ease, rapidity and legibility. For this reason, new movement work has been introduced and special meetings for teachers have been given
so that they might understand these principles and impart |
them successfully to their pupils. cach grade has been required
to memorize certain number of exercises with concert counting. Visitors from other cities have expressed their appreciation of this work in our schools. Mluch attention has been
given to embodying free movement into the daily work. Spelling, language and composition papers have been carefully
inspected and progress noted. We have aimed for what we
consider most important factor in our work, that is, uniformity

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
in writing throughout the citv. All special lessons have been
arranged with this in view.

During the past five years the enrolment of pupils has
been steadily increasing and new buildings have been erected,
making the territorv traversed by the supervisor more extended
and the grades more numerous. Holyoke is manufacturing
city. large part of the population needs greatly the studies
of practical utility. It would seem to be expedient that as
much instruction as  possible be given in so important branch
of education as writing. would suggest that an assistant
be appointed in this department, and solicit your consideration of this proposition.”

Music.

In report of his department Mr. Hugh Craig, Supervisor of Music, says:

“The work in music in our schools made steady improvement in all branches during the year which just closed. In
the primary schools we are working hard to make the children
more proficient in the art of reading music. The Individual
Sight-Singing Method is used. We are also trying to attain
this end by giving the children such songs as will create within
them real love for the best in music. In the grammar schools,
too, by the same methods we are getting very good results.

It gives me pleasure to say that every teacher works to
this end. This was shown in the Christmas Concert of  
which was given by the ninth grades assisted by voices
selected from other grades. In all we had chorus of  
voices. The concert was given in the High School auditorium
and the singers were assisted by professional orchestra. To
defray the expenses of the entertainment an admission fee
was charged. The next day we repeated the concert to the
pupils of the sixth, seventh and eighth grades. These concerts have been very helpful in creating an interest in good
music.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

In June at the exercises of graduation of the grammar
schools, held at the Opera House, there was another very finished musical program. [ach class had song to sing. There
were also several selections by the entire chorus.

At the High School pupils are enrolled in this department. There are pupils in the three choruses, in the
glee clubs, of which there are two, one for boys and one for
girls, and in the orchestra. In addition to this the girls of
the Club have well organized and successful mandolin
club. Mr. Harvey Morrill has been employed to conduct the
rehearsals of the orchestra on Wednesdays and Fridays at
the close of school. In addition to the first and second violin
the orchestra consists of piano, viola, clarinet, cornet, trombone,
drums and double bass viol. Already the orchestra has appeared
at public exercises at the school and has been most favorably
received. During the year the choruses studied the cantata
of “The Rose Maiden” by Cowan and as Peace Davy program
this entire work was enjoyed by the school pupils and parents
present at the exercises. On Fridays there are three classes
which are given glee club music. The girls are studying a
short cantata and the boys are studying miscellaneous selections. These clubs sing at intervals before the school.

In conclusion IT wish to thank the teachers and principals
for their hearty cooperation and for the interest which they
have taken in the work of this department.”

Health and Physical Training.

This department is one of the most important in the
Holyoke school system. At this time it presents great field
for splendid work along the noblest and most constructive
lines. It is true that there are now in our city open-air rooms,
medical inspection, playground work. competitive athletic
contests for the boys of the grades, high school athletics and
physical training classes. Your Superintendent feels that
there is room for great improvement in the department of
Health and Physical Training. It must be thoroughly organized
and supervised. It must be made to extend its help and good

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
influences to every school, every teacher and every pupil in
Holvoke. The new gymnasium should be the home, the center
of this department. The scope of the department should be
all that pertains to the physical education of the children in
our school system. Its supervisor, man of medical knowledge,
athletic experience, business ability and good judgment,
should be the head of all school athletics, medical inspection,
school nurses, and whatever else may have bearing upon health
conditions and physical education in the schools. The teachers
should devise plavs and games for recess in the school yard.
They should also conduct regular daily exercises in the classroom, varying the drills from month to month and introducing
formal gymnastics. The children should be taught and made
to practise the proper sitting position, the proper standing
position, the correct way to walk, good manners, the way to
dress sensibly, the natural way of breathing, the setting-up

) drill, folk dancing, and many plays and games for the classroom and the recess period. The janitors should be instructed
in principles of heating, ventilation, cleaning, and adjustment
of furniture with view to health conditions in the schools.
Every possible aid should be given and every possible effort
made toward proper organization of the department of Health
and Physical Training and toward developing it to point
where it will give the very best service to the entire school system
along the lines of proper physical education and improved
health conditions. At this writing physical training classes
are conducted along departmental lines only in the High School.
The work is done by Mr. Dowd and Miss Powers. The latter
has charge of the pupils enrolled in the elocution classes,
work which in many ways may properly be connected with
physical training. The following is an excerpt from report
on the work of the elocution classes:

‘The aims in this department are to develop good voice,
to encourage the students in clear, forcible, intelligent expression
of the spoken word. The work is based in part upon Emerson’s
Evolution of Expression, Volumes I, I], and HII. The classes
report two hours week throughout the year. First year

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

students are not admitted to this subject but may elect two
years of the subject in the last three years of the course. In
addition to the regular class work in elocution, the teacher
drills the pupils taking part in public exercises connected with
the school as well as those taking part in the annual dramatic
performance.”

The report of Mr. Dowd, Supervisor of Physical Training,
follows:

“The work of the girls’ physical training classes, which
number pupils, consists of number of corrective and
recreative exercises. These exercises are calculated to mect
the needs of the growing girl; they tend to strengthen and develop the muscles, secure the proper position of the vital organs

 and promote the gencral health and activity of the whole
body. Organized play, both in and outdoors, under proper
conditions, is an important feature of this work. Folk danc- ing has also been carried on very successfully. Talks on hygiene
| and general health topics are frequently given.

The work in the boys’ physical classes is to certain extent
along similar lines but adapted to the stronger physical capacity
of the boys. As in the girls’ classes, frequent talks are given
on personal hygiene, care of the body, proper clothing, and
the benefits of systematic outdoor exercises. good deal can
be done in this department by securing ‘the cooperation of the
other teachers and of the home. This can be done in the classrooms by having simple setting-up exercises, with the windows
thrown wide open, at the beginning of each class or study
period. Better class work is sure to be done under these
conditions. While the system of ventilation used in this school
is as good as that used in any school building, there is no air
which does the same for the body as the pure fresh air entering
the room directly from the outside. ‘The home can aid by seeing that the sleeping conditions of the growing boy and girl are
of the very best and that there is plenty of fresh, cold air at
all times in the sleeping rooms. student awakens, under
these conditions, better prepared in mind and body for the

.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
tasks of the day. There are boys enrolled in the different
classes of physical training.”’

VII. EVENING SCHOOLS. .

Holvoke offers to her people many opportunities for
self-improvement. The greatest, the best and the most practical of all is the evening school system. The child whom necessity has forced into the store or factory at the age of fourteen;
the immigrant who seeks to learn the language, history and
customs of his new home; the untutored adult who wishes to
improve himself and make up for what he lost educationally
through lack of interest or opportunity in years gone by;
the student in business branches striving to master self-imposed
tasks; the young men who want instruction along industrial
lines, the young women who elect to follow courses in domestic
arts and science—ali these and others are welcomed to our
evening schools. Tour elementary, well-graded schools, high
school with general, commercial and industrial courses, and
ninety trained teachers are open to them and at their service.

In this city, as in many others, the evening schools are
improving year by year. Theimprovement is rapid and marked.
Not only are the pupils themselves appreciating the advantages held out to them, not only are the teachers spurred
on to greater efforts by the good spirit and eager endeavor of
these pupils, but also the school authorities are realizing
that in proportion to the expenditures the evening schools
are giving better returns than any other type of school in the
system. Your Superintendent is confident that the evening
schools of Holyoke will improve vear by vear in the future as
they have in the past and that they will develop into great
night educational centers where those whose day school is
the store or the shop may read, study, exercise, listen to lectures,
and win by work the right of every American citizen—an
education.

For statistics regarding the evening schools the reader is
referred to tables on another page. For information respecting

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

the Evening High and Industrial School the writer refers you
to the bulletin issued in September,  and to the following
report of Principal Garvey: ,

“The work of the past year in the Evening High School
has been well up to the standard set in previous years. In
some respects great improvement has been shown. The school
has grown rapidly of late, so rapidly in fact that it would seem
as if the public were only just realizing the opportunities that
actually present themselves. As illustrating this, our graduating class in had five members; in there were
eleven; in twenty-four, while the present class numbers
thirty.

Some time ago stated that when the people of Holyoke
became thoroughly acquainted with the work of this school,
the High Schoo! building would not accommodate the number
that would apply for admission. his prediction has literally
been fulfilled with reference to some courses, for during the
term just finished we enrolled over one thousand pupils. In
the domestic science courses we were forced to turn away at
least one hundred girls because it was impossible to care for
them. These girls, however, were afterwards registered in the
Morgan and William Whiting Schools. Now this condition
should be, and it seems to me could be, remedied before
another year. When the present High School building was
erected the idea of devoting it to evening school work was
perhaps not seriously considered, but we have overcome in
some degree the lack of conveniences for such work by rearranging lights, improvising supply room and an office. This
yearthelack of sutfcient room to care for the sewing and dressmaking classes was serious handicap. We ought to be able
to care for all girls. and particularly working girls who apply
for these courses and who will attend regularly. At the opening of the present term we had just one room in the whole build- |
ing which could be devoted to the work of the sewing class,
and no provision was made even in that room for girls trying
on or fitting their garments. It was absolutely necessary to

|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
have more room, and the best that could be done was to use the
lecture hall for overflow classes. In this way we were able to
provide for four classes, each class meeting one evening a
week. In this connection it is well to recognize the excellent
work of janitor James Walsh, who by installing lights in the
lecture hall and arranging fitting room for the girls, without
expense to the citv, helped in great measure to solve the
problem of accommodation at least temporarily. believe
we can improve conditions next year by cutting an entrance
from the present sewing room into room immediately adjoining, which is now unoccupied at night. This room can
easily be adapted to the use of the sewing class, and if such
an entrance were made it would enable the teacher to have
pupils in both rooms directly under her supervision, whereas
now in order to get in touch with both divisions of the class a
teacher must leave one room, pass by the adjoining room and
enter the lecture hall. closet of some kind should be provided where the work and materials used by the pupils may
be kept safely. trust that these suggestions will receive proper
consideration, for know the girls are getting great deal out
of this class—in fact, some of them in addition to making their
own dresses have added to their income by sewing and dressmaking after working hours.

The course in cooking has been attended by large number
of girls and seems to be an attractive one. We should endeavor
to make the course of instruction in this class suit the needs
of the girls who attend, for many of them are greatly inneed
of advice and instruction in the most economical method of
purchasing supplies for the table and in preparing and serving
modest dishes in an attractive manner and at the Icast possible
expense.

The commercial course has been well up to the standard
of other years. One or two classes have been added. Here we
have the services of three regular day high school instructors
and four expert bookkcepers and stenographers who are engaged
as such in their daily work. ‘Thus our pupils are not only

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

fortunate in having regular high school instruction but also
they have the advantage of receiving practical suggestions
from men and women who are engaged daily in the very work
which they are teaching at night. To the average business man
this last feature is very important.

The classes in electricity have been well attended, but up
to the present time we have not attempted instruction in
anything other than elementary work, laboratory work and
practical instruction in installing bells and lights. Next year
this course should be extended as regular vocational course
for men engaged in electrical work and we shall need some
additional equipment and supplies.

A new room was fitted up in the basement for the class in
steam enginecring and some sectional models have been loaned
the department by different manufacturing concerns. The class

"is still suffering from the lack of Corliss engine or at least
the valve section. would recommend in this class as well
as in some of the others, that the school subscribe for some
standard periodicals which would materially help the men in
their work. |

Strictly academic classes were not especially well attended
this year, there being no great demand for such subjects as
Latin, German, Algebra or Geometry, although class in
Algebra and Geometry was conducted in connection with class
in Shop Mathematics. Tach year it is moreand more apparent
that the prevailing demand is for instruction in industrial
subjects, as was evidenced this year in the request of the
bricklayers and carpenters for classes touching directly on
their respective lines of work. It is well to make provision for
additional classes in these branches very soon. It  only a
question of time before members of different building trades
will seek instruction along their various lines of work, and the
city should be able to provide them with class-rooms and
competent teachers. These classes would be strictly voca| tional and half the expense would be met by the commonwealth.

If suitable room could be provided would recommend

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
the opening of classes in millinery next year, and with competent teacher such course would undoubtedly be of much
practical value.

At the opening of the present term statement of courses
offered in the Evening High School was prepared by the Superintendent of Schools and was widely distributed. This statement was in the form of bulletin giving general information
as to classes, requirements for admission, attendance and
graduation, and was of great assistance to the pupils in selecting courses. The regular evening session was divided into two
periods of one hour each, thus making it possible and convenient
to handle large number of pupils without confusion.

The whole school suffers from irregular attendance and this
fact greatly impairs the work of the school. It is very difficult
for teachers to keep up the class work when absences are as
numerous as they are. realize that in any school where the
attendance is wholly voluntary there  bound to be irregularity
in attendance, but regret very much that my recommendation of last year was not adopted. deposit of one dollar is required in many evening schools as pledge of regular attendance
and it would be well if the same rule were tried here. The work
of the school would be improved and the pupils themselves
would be the gainers. This is well illustrated by the splendid
way in which the dollar deposit and refund plan has worked
out in the Boston evening schools.

I wish to express my gratitude to Mrs. Itva M. White and
Mr. E. E. McNary, agents of the State Board of Education, for
the help which they have given me in organizing the evening
industrial and vocational classes.”’

VII. NEW COURSE OF STUDY.

The Superintendent and principals are at work on new
course of study for the elementary grades of the city. The
task is long and hard, but absolutely necessary. Throughout
our schools there must be uniformity in subject matter presented by the teachers to the pupils. Nlethods of teaching

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
may and will differ in different schools and even in the same
school, but matter to be taught should be organized, divided
and apportioned grade by grade, so that anv subject in the
elementary school curriculum, arithmetic for instance, is given
approximately the same attention in all the schools of the
city so far as the time schedule, the amount of work done and
the time and order of taking up the various branches of the
subject may be concerned. That this uniformity in the principal subjects such as language, history, geography, reading,
writing and arithmetic is most desirable and necessary goes
without saying. The new course of study will be arranged so
that the same subjects and exertises will be taught in the grades
throughout the city. time schedule giving the number of
minutes week assigned to each subject and exercise will
accompany the printed course. The outlines in arithmetic,
history and civil government, elementary science, geography,
language and reading and literature have been prepared
provisionally and are soon to be the subject of discussion at
meetings of principals. The language outline includes spoken
and written Itnglish, grammar, common errors of sph,
derivation of words, use of dictionary, dictation exercises and
work in spelling. The plan of writing is the “Palmer Method”
introduced this month in our schools. Outlines will be presented
covering work in drawing, manual training, moral training,
domestic arts, domestic science, physical training, physiology
and hygiene, and music. Lists of poems, prose and verse selections will be embodied in the printed course of study so that
teachers may have reasonably wide liberty of choice when
secking prose and poetry for reading and study in the grades.

When the course is made, agreed upon by principals and
teachers and ratified by your Committee, it will be printed in
all its details and put into effect.

IX. BACKWARD CHILDREN.

Upon investigation and following statements made by

the principals, your Superintendent reports that there are  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
children in the grades who may be classed as physically or
mentally defective or both. The backward child is usually
considered as one who is extremely nervous or whose physical
or mental handicap is great enough to prevent his keeping up.
with the normal children in his grade. Some of the children
reported as defective are so seriously handicapped in physical
or mental way that there is no hope of ever being able to deal
with them in school as normal children. few are actually
institutional cases. Nfost of the children, however, will
and do respond to special teaching. When placed in special
classes under teacher trained in the splendid work of helping
pupils whose progress is slow and whose phvsical and mental
endowments are not the best, these children may be led gradually toward certain grade and finally made to take up the
work of that grade with the normal children. |

At the West Street School and at the tlm Street School
there are now special classes in which this kind of work is
being done with good effect. Your Superintendent plans to
provide opportunities for the teachers in charge of these rooms
to observe classes for backward children as conducted in other
cities. It is further planned to develop and broaden the work
of helping the backward child. He has every right to this
assistance, no matter how deficient he may be. Teachers must
be trained and special rooms must be provided for this work.
It is labor of kindness and love, more worthy perhaps than
any other cause in the life of the public schools.

X. RETARDATION AND ACCELERATION.

In all school systems there are pupils who are too old for
their grade or too young for their grade. The average, normal
pupil reaches certain grade when he becomes certain age.
This is called the “normal age.” Children whose progress is
accelerated are younger than they should be for their grade.
Thev are below the normal age. They have gone ahead too
rapidly. Pupils who are above the normal age for their grade
are called retarded. They have progressed too slowly. This
retardation is serious matter. It says that certain children

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
are not receiving proper educational treatment. They are
not receiving the full benefit of the advantages offered them,
and, on account of having to repeat classes, they leave school
before completing the work of the elementary grades. This
retardation tells the school officials that some of their pupils
must be given special and individual attention and perhaps
that there is something the matter with certain portions of the
program of studics, the work of group of teachers or the organization of school. Superintendent Perkins of Portland,
Maine, sums up the causes of retardation in this way: ‘“‘Ignor- |
ance and indifference on the part of the parents; short and
irregular attendance; late entrance; bad physical conditions,
physical defects, poor health, sickness; base mental conditions,
want of balance, slow to perceive, weak to retain; bad environmental conditions; lack of interest, bad habits of study,
absence of suitable ideals; poor teaching, and unnecessary
discouragements; bad inheritance, unredeemable defects,
physical and mental defects.”

Table which is printed on page gives the amount
of retardation in the Holyoke schools:

/

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE A.
DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY AGES AND GRADES IN
SEPTEMBER,  .
Ages WoW Vv Vv VI VIE Vit IX Total
Under years,
 years, years, years, years, years,  years, |
  years, years,  years,  years, years, years, years, years, |
Over years, |
Total,  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
, The table on page shows that in September,  there
were pupils in the nine grades in Holyoke. All first
grade pupils eight years of age or older are classed as retarded;
all second grade pupils nine years of age or older are called
retarded, andsoon. Therefore the figures below the heavy
step-like line represent cases of retardation. There are  
retarded pupils in our grades, that is seventeen per cent. This
is not an alarming figure in view of the fact that the average
retardation in several hundred cities of the country, fairly
selected, is about thirty-four per cent, that Professor Strayer
found the average retardation in Massachusetts cities,
fairly selected, to be about thirty-two per cent, and that a
table similar to the one above printed in the Springfield  
school report shows twenty per cent retardation in the grades
there. glance at the following summary will show the number
and per cent retarded in the different grades. |
‘Grade Number retarded. Per cent retarded.
I  
TI  
Il  
IV  
V  
VI  
VII  
VIII  
IX ar)
Total for all grades,  
The method of discovering retardation indicated in Table
A, where age is considered in relation to grade, is neither so
accurate nor so satisfying as the plan which makes use of age
and number of years in school. This arrangement, used by
many school authorities throughout the country, originated
with Dr. Ayres of the Russell Sage Foundation.

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEF  

Table B, printed on the next page, is total of compilations made under the following directions:

“This table is made to determine by the “‘age and years in
school” method the number of pupils in particular grade
whose progress may be termed “rapid,” “normal,” or “slow.”
The grade selected for this table is the fifth grade. In the table
the figures across, to inclusive, indicate ages. The figures
down indicate the total number of years the pupil has been
in school up to September,  The figure indicating “years in
school’’ means the total number of years that the pupil has spent
in the school from which this table comes or in any other
school. table is to be compiled by each school in the City
for its fifth grade. If in the fifth grade there is one pupil who
has been one year in school and who is years of age, write
  under and opposite  If in the fifth grade there are nine
pupils each one having been two years in school, three of

whom are eight years of age, two nine years of age, three ten
years of age, and one eleven years of age, write under 
under  under  and under  placing these four figures
in horizontal row with the figure on the left. Compile the
rest of the table ina similar way. Total down and total across.”’

It appears from Table that there are fifth grade

children in our public schools. The children usually enter
school in this city at the age of five. The normal age for
fifth grade children is therefore ten years. The two strong
vertical lines which include and all the figures under it,
divide the table into three parts: To the left are figures
showing children below the normal age; between the lines are
figures showing those of normal age, leaving the over-age
pupils on the right. The summary is shown in Table I.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE B.
AGE AND YEARS IN SCHOOL, FIFTH GRADE,
HOLYOKE, DECEMBER,  .

Years in Ages

School Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 ]

 
Total  

. REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
| TABLE I.
Below normal age... .............     ences  
Normal age.....  ... cc    tence neces  
Above normal age... ...........     .
If horizontal lines are drawn so as to include five and all
figures in straight line to the right, the table up and down is
divided into three parts: The figures above the horizontal lines
indicate rapid progress; between the lines, normal progress;
and below the lines, slow progress. The summary is as follows:
TABLE II.
Rapid progress. ..........       .  ]
Normal progress... .........     en   
Slow progresS.  ...          ees  
Combining Tables I. and II. we have this result:
TABLE III.
Young Normal Over-age Total
Rapid,  
Normal,  
Slow,  
Total,  
Stating Table III. in terms of percentage we find by Table
IV., which follows, that per cent. of our fifth grade pupils
are making rapid progress, per cent. normal progress, and
  per cent. slow progress. ,
TABLE IV.
Per cent. Per cent. Per cent.
Young Normal Over-age Total
Per cent. rapid,  
Per cent. normal,  
Per cent. slow,  
Total,  

|
|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE |
Your Superintendent is planning complete investigation
of the school system along these lines.
XI. THE WIDER USE OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
The fundamental idea in the country-wide movement for
| more extended use of the school plant is that these great
public buildings should be used for purposes other than those
| of the regular day school. It is argued, and rightly, that the
| investment is too great and the buildings too valuable to justify |
using them only thirty hours week. It is further argued that
the opportunities for doing good by using the school plant more !
widely are actually as many and as potent as those within the
, grasp of the day schools. The call of the people for the opening
of the school buildings to meet their social, industrial and
: educational needs has been heard in every citv. The answer
: is the evening school, the lecture course, the assigning of school
| halls for plays, rallies, meetings and entertainments, the reading room, the evening gymnasium and other forms of ‘‘social
, center’ work. We are not lagging. The social center movement is slowly and surely gaining impetus in our city. Organ| ization and leader are needed. The work must be suited to
the community. good deal has already been accomplished
| Bit iit and your sub-committee has tentative plans for the wider use
it of school buildings along broad and generous yet conservative
\ lines—conservative because rushing headlong into this move ment may bring regrets. The school grounds and halls and
ly urcperene buildings cannot be handed over to the public for all kinds of
lane vane gatherings. If the property is too valuable to stand idle when
a AY OE the day schools are not in session, it is also too valuable to be
| iI ruined by those who are not much concerned with the appeariy ih) ance of city property, the spirit of public gatherings or the Hit rights of others. Holyoke is splendid field for the right sort
es of social center work, and once properly started it will progress
— rapidly and well.
| ey

| rl ze
. Digitized by Google
  ee

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
XII. CENSUS.

Your Superintendent calls to your attention the census
report as given by the truant officers on another page. So far
as practical results are concerned the taking of the census was
useless work. To say that the number of children in Holyoke
between the ages of five and fifteen years decreased by  
since September,  is absurd in view of enrolment and other
statistics in this office. The number of children between the
ages of five and fifteen years attending the public schools is
represented as having decreased from in to  
in  loss of  Your Superintendent has statistics to
prove that the opposite is true, that there was large gain
and that the census reports are in general inaccurate and
useless. It is recommended that the full Committee at the
meeting in August,  make plans for fair, honest, businesslike taking of the census next September.

XIII. THE FUTURE.

The past is on the records and briefly in this report so

far as mere inventory may place it therein. The present
speaks for itself. Many problems of the near future are waiting for solution. If any branch of the school department is
not run on an absolute business basis, attention must be
directed to it at once. The rules of the committee must be revised and reprinted. department of janitors must be
organized and well supervised. The evening schools must be
watched closely and developed even as the pupils devclop
and make greater demands for increased educational opportunity. The vocational and industrial classes in the Evening
High School must be given especial effort and attention. The
problems presented by the building of the gymnasium and industrial school are big and far-reaching. There is room for
vacation schools and summer schools. There are plans for other
things—all tending toward one goal, the best interests of the
Holyoke schools.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
XIV. CONCLUSION.
In conclusion your Superintendent wishes to thank the
. members of the School Board, of the Board of Public Works, of
the Board of Health and of other city departments with whom
he has come in contact in the administration of this office.
Their unfailing courtesy and ready assistance is deeply appreciated. The principals and teachers, all those in the service
of the school department, have been so kind and loyal and have
worked so earnestly and well for the schools that your Superintendent owes them very great debt of gratitude. With such
loyal assistance at the very outset and with the surety that it
will continue, some good will be accomplished for Holyoke’s
future citizens, the boys and girls in the schools.
Respectfully submitted,
| FRANCIS McSHERRY.

. |
Statistics
Your Superintendent submits the following statistical
tables under six headings: .
A.—Statistics giving general information regarding number of |
pupils, attendance, receipts, expenditures and  special |
accounts.
|
B.—Financial statistics presenting the latest salary schedule, |
showing how the school appropriation was spent and giving the accounts with the various schools.
C.—Attendance statistics covering enrolment, membership,
attendance, number of teachers, distribution of pupils by
schools, grades, ages and courses.
D.—Statistics comparing attendance and distribution of
pupils, receipts and expenditures through several school
years.
E.—Miscellaneous tables and information.
F.—Organization; roster of those in the service of the School
Department. :
a. General Statistics
Population of Holyoke, May,  ............  
Total valuation of property................... 
Total number of children of school age  to  ),  
Total number from to years of age........  
Total number of pupils in all schools, year ending
June,  ......  ...  ...      

re {| |
oe :
pr or rhi |
i a
PR
yf
i! ;
(fi if REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
i rn
Weta .
i |} Number under years of age..................  
if ty Number over years of age.................  
| an Number between and years of age, .......  
oy Average membership in all schools.............  
; rdoG {
ti ol Average attendance...................  
i Per cent of attendance.......................  
, Total income of School Department for fiscal year
a ending November ............... 
, Total expenditure of School Department for fiscal ,
i year ending November  (including
i janitors’ salaries and supplies from May  ,
|      ees 
Overdraft (met by additional appropriation)....  
, Special furnishing account, amount expended,  
| Expended by Board of Public Works:
Sites and new buildings ....................  
: Alterations and improvements..............  
: Repairs...  ...     
; Janitors’ salaries and supplies to May ,
, fuel, power, light and water..............  
) Total expenditure for support of schools........  
| Cost per pupil based on average membership,
, IDM   
Cost per pupil based on average membership,
IDIO-  
| Tax on one dollar of valuation................ 
Total expenditure for support of schools for year
ending June as reported to State
Board of Education. This amount includes
repairs to buildings and expenditure for
| medical inspection.......................  
|
i

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

b. Financial Statistics

TABLE I. FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
 Receipts.

Dog taxes........................ 

Tuition.  ...    

Saleof books...............  

Sale of furniture..................  
————— 
Appropriation................. .......+....  

Transferred from Board of Public Works on
janitors’ salaries and supplies.............  
Total income................. -. ...  
Total expenditure................... ...  
Overdraft (met by additional appropriation)....  

 Expenditures and Estimates.
Expended Estimates
Salaries—  
Day school teachers.......  
Supervisors...............  
Evening school teachers. ...  
Superintendent...........  
Clerks...  ...  ,  
Truant officers............  
Janitors—schools..........  
Janitor—office............  
' Matron...................  

Manual training helper... ..  
Census... ................  
Total salaries.............  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Supplies— ;

Rental.................. 
| Furniture................  
Janitor and building supplies,  
Educational supplies.......  
Text books...............  
Truant school.............  
Printing and advertising...  
Telephones...............  

Laundry.................  
Freight, express and cartage,  
Livery. ...........  
Office expenses............  
Transportation............  
Graduation...............  
Baths. ................ 

High school lunch.........  
Unclassified..............  
Total supplies.............  
Salaries...................  
Supplies.............. 
Total................  
Estimated receipts..................  
Appropriation needed................... 

TABLE IT. CLASSIFIED EXPENDITURES.

 Salaries of Superintendent, Clerks, Truant Officers, Census
Enumerators, Office Janitor and Matrons.
Superintendent—John L. Riley................ 

Francis NIcSherry............  

‘  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

 

|

Clerks—Mary J. Callahan.................... r
Agnes M. Cadieux................... ;

Ida A. St. Martin............... ;
Truant Officers—Thomas W. Doyle........... |
Thomas E, Gallagher......... |

Thomas H. Finn.............  

Michael Kerin (assistant)... .. |
Census—Michael Kerin...................... |
Eugene St. Martin.................. |

Medric Lacasse......................  

Arthur Greaney...................... !

James Barry.................. 

John F. Moore...................... |
Thomas Shaugnessy................. |

John Zelinski..  ...  |
Edmund Lenartowcz................. |
Janitor—William B. Rogers.................. |
Matrons—Mrs. B. T. Clifford................. |
Ellen F. Donahue (assistant)........ !
a \

Total...        ses 

"

—  Building and Janitor Supplies.
Batteries, etc...  ...  eens  :
Brushes... ........  ce     eens  
Chamois...  ...    es r
Cheese cloth. ........       :
Curtain cord...  ...  cc    |
Dusters...  ...   ens |
Flags...  ... teens |
Floor ofl.  ... ce   :
Lawn mowers, etC..........    |
Mops, etc........  ...    teens |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE

Soaps... ete   ened 
Sponges...  ... ete een  
Tools, etc...  cc  een  
Miscellaneous............. een  

Total...    
:  Educational Supplies. .

— Bells...    
Bookkeeping. ..........   eae  
Busy work...  ...  ...  cc eens  

| Crayon.  ... tenes  
Domestic science.............      
Drawing...  ...    
Duplicators and supplies......................  
Electrical...  ...    
English...  ...  ... eens  
Erasers, rubber..............      
Erasers, blackboard....................  
Geography... ........        
Globes...  ... cea  
Inkwells.  ...    
Kindergarten................ eens  
Manual training.............   ees  
Maps... ....  ...   tees  

  Mathematics........    eens  
Music...  ...      
Paints and brushes..................  
Paper...  ...  eens  
Paste, etc...     
Pencils... ene  
Pencil sharpeners..................    
Pens and penholders................... 
Pianos... ce   nes  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
ct  
Science.         ees  
ScissOrs..      
Stenography.........  ...      
Thermometers............. ..   eeuee  
Waste baskets.................. .. .}  
Writing...     
Miscellaneous. ............  een  
Total...  ...           

 Text Books.
Bookkeeping............     eens 
Building construction. ..................  
Civil service...  ...   
Commercial.............      
Drawing...  .o        
Engineering...  ...   eens  
English...   een  
French and German. ...................  
Geography...        
History... eae  
Hygiene...    
Kindergarten.......... ...        
Latin and Greek..........  .  
Library...    
Mathematics............  ... -c        
Music...  eens  
Science...  ... ec   en    
Stenography...........    ees  
Miscellaneous. ...........     een  
Total.     REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
 Special Furnishing Account.
(Provided for by special appropriation)

Joseph Metcalf School.................... 

TABLE III. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES

BY MONTHS.

December..................... 
January.................. ..  
February................  
March...............  
April...     
May.........      
June............   
July...  ...  ,  
AuguSt.......  ...     
September.....................  
October..................  
November............:........  

Total for year......................... 

Total receipts. ........      

Overdraft (met by additional appropriation), 

on “yr id  Torry :
| oE  OE SSSS SORTER TEE ESTE Ty |
SQSRS SSeF  RESREES  
. Bee so en tS Re pT TE CA TR TOSSES, FT nh |
| ot SCTFSSOL AUR. CF Roreynerehleseesron
fe] ea. SZ BAe te ATS Blecastes PaesrerRGyvs: CG
\ —Zo.—- Oa oe Zpawzran: aon ae |
| Cae   io  axKr- Gq  om
|Fue Dare. Meat aya. ge AR. S
 (Rae SQ ye TET Gah SY ow Las es |
; es ceae 
| Age. wt. -: t.  Ga :
\ ead Sf ow Eo vA |
. "oO -: th MN: oe. :
| rree |
|To |
een (enn  
: |
rf |
  CS RPK ABMNKA HK NDMNDKD: ExX  xeroc SSREESSRUSERELESE SUNS  |
S ote Oe  no Ss beoo  Ps pag
:|  ($  SRSSr TZSRSESRSRLGIASSS SE  OS
:  a— Yenns SHRCHSNNSEWON-SCYeweRrSE
  [RSS SERN ERE RSOSSESATE SZ ZSINS ‘SS
: ww NS LOaon OTles
o om na  een   ota EeSOVOLANS ETH eH exyey  .
Lo rot a—  eustt SNS  al
 (+ BENE SNARESUSN SSNS SHES  boo
; St  O: NN SHE CNUSCURON SN ONUS PY
: zr RS SNSESSHRSENRITSTSERSNSUS
» TT TO   eo  
A ms 
vere ae Q
Ss an eo.  :
x wo, ae wh eww zs to tw va
|  ne wo Pn SVTSHastQos SSIs x: C
r Oe Bet mirirty ae wweoens nay
x Soi SS BRSERSSENESSEBRENE Pal
m coni 
i  we.  eon  
S- “mt wo te bewane oom oe co ‘
.' hl US tee Sw BWocoreesxnewesenes DER a
rT OY oe ose SBmOUAANSAN ZNSE AE ZECHS aes N
 eos  Py tat er wn ot “oo '
S  sone Sew xrel de horde be Slt  TC we be .
| Bo: BASAS Ree snutoNZeER Besse 
Sot  bond on  
|; So! ... oe
  wt hh Roel Eh ded? Eo) o— me al 
* ae eR DUKE ENOBDUERST OW mes  res,
 eo de ot de wits a]
i eo
Som fof i.. ae
PIR  (sues eeyss oes. wgees ia je
we es Cre at Rn  wn» we oy a
 HAS FR SSRESSSARLENSSHSS ms |
C mk hg BEN SSSNSE He NPN ww ”
 || tn Zo: BO ASz  BESSESNESREAENERA eo
c Te, |
 Pt  a
  mt Ne he YM Bee gb oOhE SUN wwe!  Sz
  |,  Qo NKERKRS SoS ZSPN QSESSRNHRERZ BEARD HS RREERRANS SCLIN EGA +
 ym me ate VS eKvyweere coe unewes ce
es me as See MEZA SRRASAZZERESSES Cc
Sh FL Ss LN MS FEN SUS BWM ES li‘
- .
ry  UNS so  mo  —.  So eh loo Mee Bex mK to ’
a ne Smee MO ARS RR SKN BHO wWeocwe Toe,
hd  Ron aoe KRkPSoenisSenusy Sosxis a
 £: SESENSSESES ELEZZ oe
) TS 
A oo.  Po ts eS
z et MR So Som ened 
. . RE mn eo ene wv om Sh eve Ua Sw)|
  || ws Szy;SLEEN. SLEELESELN  

—, re an  me  Ses
 Do re ik  S
|  met zo
  ue SSNSESERS SON wwe ae
  So SUNN SUN SITE EH Sos |
 Bo HI SHOSeRNHeeERNOUMOIS  —
a wo), BF Boas SSSR Susser ezsy Cc
CGST, To,  as  
e ; |
. : . |
 oe seSeek soeGo  .
rr —- ey,
. Dt i. 
b BRaAGeo.
 w. Ge, Se LoL  So ak —
  tos “e
: oe |
an Ct  |
ty Ps Ps Ds sa |
. Dot  |] wos om   oe eg ow  &
z Soo; LN eSSS iS
. .. rr os ke ot nS woe  {
| wo he Se SSE HE.  Se Fe Js
| pocisoe |
re on Fs ofc ot
| gel me Es ge Ba aE
| med 
os S$ Fe -R  BoB oF
wt re  as: ae  |
. ate de eae  -, ‘ae
i SREKNS SF BBB: eK :
| we  --S coeee
|
to  pe ty I
  aa ie me Neo Nr ZS KINNF AS MN mm x
 te am be tots Stowe Bes  Se DH te ian |
‘(os E£  nek XSENSESNDSIOINASIGENE ‘
| Pw LECD BES Feu MWUKD RKB SH FSW —
C' a- oa Se bet be on EA aS Bad Okano ey |
ES Kigea- SHORE. EFF Se TAAAAL IGA,
i)

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE V. COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP.
SCHOOLS Cont based on Cost based on
High................ .... 
Grammar and KinderPrimary georten
Appleton Street..............  
East Dwight Street...........  
Elm Street..................  
Elmwood....................  
Ewingville...................  
Hamilton Street..............  
Highland....................  
Ingleside....................  
Kirtland....................  
Morgan.....................  
Nonotuck Street............  
Park Street..................  
Sargeant Street..............  
South Chestnut Street.........  
Springdale...................  
West Street.................  
West Holyoke................  
William Whiting.............  
Evening Schools.
High........................  
Appleton Street..............  
Morgan.....................  
West Street... ................  
William Whiting..............  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
| TABLE VI. RULES RELATING TO SALARIES OF
TEACHERS.
From Rules and Regulations of School Department.
The established salaries of teachers shall be as follows,
ViZ.:
Teachers of Grades I, II, HI, IV, V, VI.:—
First year in charge of school................ 
Second year in charge of school..............  
Third year in charge of school..............  
Fourth year in charge of school..............  
Fifth year in charge of school...............  
sixth year in charge of school...............  
Seventh and sucding years...............  
Teachers of Grade VII.:—
First year in charge of school................  
Second year in charge of school..............  
Third vear in charge of school...............  
Fourth vear in charge of school..............  
Fifth vear in charge of school...............  
Sixth year in charge of school...............  
Seventh and sucding years...............  
Teachers of Grade VIII.:—
First year in charge of school................  
Second year in charge of school .............  
Third year in charge of school. ..............  
Fourth year in charge of school..............  
Fifth year in charge of school...............  
Sixth year in charge of school...............  
Seventh and sucding years...............  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
| Teachers of Grade IX. :— |
First year in charge of school................ |
Second year in charge of school..............  
Third year in charge of school............... '
Fourth year in charge of school..............  
Fifth year in charge of school...............  
Sixth year in charge of school...............  
Seventh and sucding years...............  
Principals of Kindergarten :—
First year in charge of school................ 
Second year in charge of school..............  
Third year in charge of school. ..............  
Fourth year in charge of school..............  
| Fifth year in charge of school...............  
' Sixth and sucding years..................  
Assistants in Kindergarten :—
: First year... ..  ... kee    
Second year.....  ...   
Third year. ......  ...   ce    
Fourth year........  ...     
Fifth and sucding years..................  
High School Teachers, not heads of departments :—
Men:
First year of service................ 
Second year of service. ...............-  
Third year of service....  ...  
Fourth year of service. ..............-- 
Fifth year of service...  ...  ...    
Sixth year of service...............-  
Seventh year of service...............  
Eighth and sucding years............--..  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Women:
First year of service................. 
Second year of service......................  
Third year of service................... ...  
Fourth year of service......................  
Fifth year of service... ...............  
Sixth year of service....................  
Seventh and sucding years...............  
Principals of Primary Buildings of more than four rooms:—
First year...  ...     
Second year...  ...     
Third year... ..  ...    
Fifth and sucding years..................  
Principals of Primary Buildings of three or four rooms:—
First year...  ...  
Second year.....  ...      
Third and sucding years.................  
Principals of Primary Buildings of one or two rooms:—
First year...  ...   
Second year.........  ...       
Third and sucding years.................  
Principals of Grammar Schools of not more than eight rooms :—
First year... .......... -- -+..+ 
Second year.................... ... -++  
Third year. .............................-.  
Fourth year......................... .+-++  
Fifth year..............................-.  
Sixth year.........    ees 
Seventh year...........................-..  
Eighth and sucding years................  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Principals of Grammar Schools of more than eight rooms:—
First year....... ..... .... .... ... Second year...............................  
, Third year-.................... ..........  
Fourth year...............................  
Fifth year... .............................  
Sixth year. ................... ... ......  
- Seventh year..............................  
Fighth year...............................  
, Ninth and sucding years.................  
Principals of Evening Elementary Schools:—
First year...............................  per eve.
; Second year............................. “
Third year.............................. 
: Fourth and sucding years.............. *‘
Evening School Janitors, per room............. “
, |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
c. Attendance Statistics
The first seven of the following tables are based upon actual
membership and show consisely the classification and distribution of pupils on December Ist,  .
TABLE I. ENROLMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND
ATTENDANCE.
ee  
E  Es a
Pee Be a. 
High,  
Grades, . 
Kindergarten,  
Totals,  .
* Also one additional teacher on leave of absence.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE II. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES
IN HIGH SCHOOL AND GRADES.
ee ee
  
ee ee s
S$ B\ El t
S| -| ‘Ps [ojo yi] ze#'] e,  
g)a,e|  wie S|S  )a.  | 
TABLE III. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY AGES
AND CLASSES.
Oe laathe ris
 Class” Age [E   TH Total
eel Ltd dat del Pal)  
Post Graduate Girls} fT YE] 
Bons Sian BY
Senior Girls} [|  )b  
Bon ‘| al  
Junior Girls| ||  too, |||  
Boys Q! 
Sophomore Girls}  azi ]i TF || tno}  
Boys| !)  |! Te
Freshman Girls} |  
Boys! ve   !
Total Girls}   Sol
TABLE IV. HIGH SCHOOL—AVERAGE AGES.
Class Boys Girls ‘Total
Post Graduate  yrs. mos. vrs. mos.  yrs. mos.
Senior Vo yrs. mos.  vrs. mos. vrs. mos.
Junior  vrs. mos.  yrs. mos.  yrs. mos.
Sophomore yrs. mos. yrs. mos.  yrs. mos.
Freshman I+ yrs. mos. yrs. mos.  yrs. mos,

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
-  |
!
I \
| TABLE V. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION
BY CLASSES AND COURSES.
wo oe Le
er :
I (gE tf si |
| Clas  e
US }
. oy a) |
Boys| afl if.
, rest Graduate Girls]  
| Boys  
Senior Girls! ||  
: Boys|   |
, Junior Girls  
S Boys| |  ephomore Girls}  |  
| Boys| |  
srehman Girls} .-| .
 Boys| |  
al Girls] |
|

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE VI. ELEMENTARY SCHOOILS—DIS- TRIBUTION BY GRADES.
Schools EE. ly  
gh Fle isi S|  
| ||

Appleton St. ] 
E. Dwight St.   
Elm St. 
E-Ilmwood   
ewingville  ]
Hamilton St.  
Highland  
Ingleside |}  gs}  
Jos. Metcalf   
Kirtland  
Morgan   
Nonotuck St.   
Park St. 
Sargeant St. |  
So. Ch’tn’t St.   
Springdale s!  
West St.   |
W. Holyoke   
Wm. Whiting   

Total  

|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTER  
TABLE VII. ELEMENTARY SCHOO!S—SIZE OF
CLASSES.

Number Number Number Number Number Number
in of in ot in of
Class Classes Class Classes Class Classes
    ri G  

 c
  hy
 S
 )
 
many  )
Classes of
Clisses of Two or
Single Grades more Grades Total  Total  ]
  or less................  to inclusive. ........  
More than dO............  
Total. ..... ........  
TABLE VIII. HIGH SCHOOL--NUMBER OF PUPILS
GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Course Boys Girls Total
College preparatory..............  
Technical. ... ... .. ... ..  
Commercial. ...........  ...  
General........................ |?  
Total... .... .......  ... 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE IX. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS
ENTERING SEPTEMBER,  .
Boys Girls Total
From Appleton Street School.....  
From Elmwood School..........  
From Highland School..........  
From Morgan School............  
From West Street School........  
Others entering.................  
Total... ..................  
TABLE X. GRAMMAR SCHOOLS—NUMBER OF
PUPILS GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Boys Girls Total
Appleton Street School.......... 
Elmwood School................  
Highland School................  
Morgan School.................  ()  
West Street School..............  
West Holyoke School........... ]
Total... .................. 
TABLE XE NUMBER OF PUPILS IN GRADE IX AND
AVERAGE AGI SEPTEMBER,  .
Bovs Girls ‘Total Average Age
Appleton Street School  yrs. mos.
Highland School  yrs. mos.
Joseph Metcalf School yrs.
Morgan School yrs. mos.
West Street School yrs. mos.
West Holvoke School yrs.
Total  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE XII. EVENING SCHOOLS—FOR MONTH OF
NOVEMBER,  .
Number of
Teachers Numberof Number of Average
including Pupils Pupils Niehtly
. Principals Earoled. Belonging. Attendance
High School  
Appleton Street School  
Morgan School  
West Street School  
William Whiting School 
Total  
TABLE AIT]. NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED
DECEMBER .
Superintendent of schools.......... ss...  .  
Truant officers...     ecvvec .  
Matron.  cre   |
Jamitor—office. eve    te  . |
Janitors—schools.....  seve   cence.  
In Day Schools:
Men Women Total
Leh School (including principal)...  
“mentary school principals who
pave assistants. o.oo  
“SMentary school principals in charge
Nor classes.  
Kien Stade teachers...  
Sey th grade teachers........ ....  
Sink grade teachers.............  
Fit  rade teachers...............  
pe Btade teachers... ee.  
Curth Rrade teachers..............  
Third Grade teachers...............  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
In Day Schools:
Men Women Total
Second grade teachers. .............  
First grade teachers. ...............  
Nlixed grade teachers (two or more
grades in room)................  
Ungraded school teachers. .......... ]
Kindergarten teachers. .............  
Supervisors and special teachers. ....  
Total number of teachers in day
schools.    
In Evening Schools:
High School...  ...     I+ |
Ilementary schools................  
Total number of teachers in evening
schools...  ...  ...ee  
Total number of teachers in day and
evening schools. ....... ...... ..  
Total number of persons employed...... ove

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE XIV. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE STATISTICS FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE .
BUR TE TEAR ENDING JUNE  Tole.
 '
ik Fe moe  ,
spdgifel dp lee) abl ab. &
SCHOOLS bis of re
S SE] EE) Fy
Poa EL EG
it Sia na 
| |
High.   
Appleton Street....| . 
East Dwight Street  aad.  .
Elm Street........| | 
Elmwood..........    
eringvilte,. ! 
Heron Street....| 
Bland... . 
sleside. oo.  | 
Wands| 
No BaP   ln  
pluck Street....|  §/    
ck Street... ....  
g ecant Street....|   
ee hestn’t Street. . 
Wo edale.........   
Woe treet...    
Win Holyoke...)  aoa 
am Whiting...   
Evening Schools: ae
  
Hi 
Aedes   
ton Street....    
Ween LB  
Wines 
Mam Whiting...   

:
|
|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
: d. Comparative Statistics
| TABLE IT. -EXPENDITURES FOR SEVERAL
! YEARS COMPARED.
iee
|  
| a
| Grade teachers and |
| principals.......... }$ |$  [$ 
| High school teachers
and principal.......   
Kindergarten teachers.  .  
Supervisors...  ...  . 
Evening high school...  . 
Ivening elementary
schools.............  . 
Superintendent. ......  . 
‘Truant officers........    
Janitors—schools..... 
Janitor—office........  
Clerks...    
Matron..............  
County truant school...  
Text books...........  
Educational supplies.  .  
Printing and advertisINQ... ke 
Furniture... .........   
Building supplies. ..... IS 
Janitor supphes.......  
Telephones...........  
Livery...............  
Transportation... ......  :
ireight, express and ;
Cartage...  ...  
Rental... ...........  !
Laundry. ....... ....  
Miscellaneous and continvent...  ...   .  
ee !
*On May Ist,  the janitors came under the supervision of the ]
School Board. Up to this time they had been under the supervision of the |
Board of Public Works. These sums represent expenditures for janitors’
salaries and supplies for seven months.
 
]
i

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE II. THE HIGH SCHOOL.
tsp Tignes
June Supers isors Principal Enrolled Membership
    . 
     , .   .
 
TABLE III. THE NINE GRADES.
For Veo farendivare Number of tonal |
June nouneriaure prince, Ruvolied Meniier hip
    "  , .  . 
 .
    December Ist  
* Substituting In high school and kindergartens all charged to
grades these three years.

enn bi |
| ane
oY
| I
  an,
h |
mn REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
a F
if
Hi
| {| TABLE IV. THE KINDERGARTEN.
| For Year Total
mB Ending Expenditure Number of Number Average |
June for Teachers ‘Teachers Enrolled Membership
! iF  
fi     
'  
!  
| li  
nal     
|  
!
. TABLE V. THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
  Gere
p  ae  OES zB BSE |
    ,
  |
  |
    |

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE VI. THE EVENING GRAMMAR SCHOOL.

a SE: y
“Et ZR es BE rE cs Yevs
eis Ze  es £TH   
L    

TABLE VIE THE EVENING ELEMENTARY
SCHOOLS.

fs cE
ie ne sf EEE
Eig fe RR BR SE
      ()  d
  Correct record not available
  
  +   

é |
! REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE VIII. AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUPILS PER
TEACHER IN ‘THE GRADES BASED UPON AVERAGE MEMBERSHIP FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER.
Average Number of Pupils Average Number of Pupils
per Teacher including per teacher not including Prin| all Principals cipals who have assistants
    
TABLE IX. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES
IN HIGH SCHOOL AND GRADES
i
 .[a 's| -lE lx [es  
B-lsie ie) [+  ))
a
Dec. |.. maeere er ee
Dec. |. ram sea ed rs Ps ee
Dec. |. .| ;'  men sian re re re ree
Dec. |.. mo  on tefewefee alee.
Dec. |.. op “pe cages rePee ee
Dec. |. ./  Pd re reee
Dec. rs an vas  
Dec.  “ye  )/  
sherlodnaslre
Dec. par ria  
a ee

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE X. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE
ATTENDANCE DAY SCHOOLS.

Dec. SdDee  sdDee 

SCHOOLS ozoe
High 
Appleton Street ] 
East Dwight Street 
Elm Street ] 

Elmwood  

Ewingville  ) 
Hamilton Street |  
Highland  
Ingleside ] 
Joseph Metcalf  
Kirtland ) 
Morgan ) 
Nonotuck Street | 

North Chestnut St. 

Park Street  
Sargeant Street ) 
So. Chestnut St. ] 
Springdale  
West Street ; 
West Holyoke  
William Whiting 
——COP |-—- a
Totals 

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
; TABLE XI. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. |
ee |
. |. Dee.  al  h
SCHOOLS |B ks ae S
 i| 
aee
| Appleton Street   
Morgan  
West Street  
William Whiting  
Elm Street 
Totals  
TABLE XII. EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
' Total
Nuinber Average
enrolled Attendance.
Year ending April,  
“ “* 
“* 
|  
“ “t **  
“ 
s 
“ ss 
For November, eé  
(figured as last year)  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
@. Miscellaneous Tables and Information
I. RESIGNATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS—
DAY SCHOOL TEACHERS.
Resignations.
Clifford H. Webber Helen M. Burke
George W. MacDow Katharine A. Callahan
Franklin B. Dowd Emilie Collingwood :
Lucy A. Hifle Abbie I. Keough
Anna G. Fitzgerald Alice P. Greeley :
Helena McHugh Charles H. Mumma
Appointments.
Chester B. Park Antoinette I. Charest  
Clyde B. Edgeworth Anna A. Dalton '
Donald Mackenzie Elizabeth C. Burke |
Mary F. Riley Jennie FE. Collingwood
William H. Whitney Margaret M. Bradley
Lena W. Slotnick Ella G. Prouty |
John C. Varney Audry V. Delaney
Madeline L. Slade Eva C. Moynihan
Lillian M. Chapman Mary V. Casev
Mary F., Dooley Teresa V. Tucker
Katherine C. Flood Estelle Curley
Agnes J. Donoghue Rose C. Lynes
Mrs. Katherine Dillon Ruth Canavan
Septa F. Lynn Mary A. Lynch
Mary M. Doyle Anna M. Kidnay
Agnes Dowdall Katherine Glasheen
Della V. Flynn Agnes G. Scully
Claire E. O'Neill Anne Halfpenny
Margaret I. Ryan

r |’
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Leave of Absence.
Susan M. Mayo Evelyn Curley
| Carolyn M. Swiney |
{ {
! II. SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
vas! oes nfas! Ei |
scHoo. Be ex EE] Se OBS
! na nal Ee a)  
High .......| ickGran , 
Appleton St. |Red brick 
Carlton St. |/Red brick} 
E. Dwight St./ /Red brick]   
Elm St.  ,Red brick} :!  
Elmwood  |Red brick)   
, Ewingville  |Red brick! 
| Hamilton St. !Red brick:  
Highland  zbt Prick.   
| Ingleside  Lt. brick  
| Jos. Metcalf eP) beck  
Kirtland  ;Red brick]   
! Lyman St. /Red brick!  —j  
Morgan  )Red brick)  
| Nonotuck St  Red brick!  
Park St.  Red brick!   
Sargeant St. Hie Red vi   
S. Chest’t St.[ /Red brick'  
| Springdale eos Red brick!   
West St.  Ysht  ’   
W. Holyoke Toran 
Wm. Whiting /Red brick  
a

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
III. PUBLIC SCHOOL CHILDREN’S AID FUND.
The following table shows the yearly Thanksgiving
offering of the children of the public schools. The money
is spent for clothing for needy children.
Year Amount Year Amount
   
   
 
Total to date 
IV. VALUE OF ART AND SCIENCE COLLECTIONS.
School Art Science Reference Library.
High...  ...  
Appleton Street......  
Elm Street..........  
Elmwood............  
Ewingville.......  ...  
Hamilton Street... ...  
Highland............  
Ingleside....... ....  
Joseph Metcalf......  
Kirtland... .....  
Morgan... ..........  
Nonotuck Street. Loe.  
So. Chestnut St......  
Springdale.  .....  
West Street...  
West Holyoke...  
William Whiting. |...  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
V. FIRE DRILLS.

Principals are required to have at least one fire drill every
month of the school year. The signal for fire drill is uniform
throughout the city, one long ring.

The following table is record of the time required for the

) fire drills held in ali the schools on November  th,  :
High School. ........................ minute seconds
Appleton Street School............... “
Ikast Dwight Street School............ “
Elm Street School....................  
Elmwood School.....................  .
Ewingville..  ... eae,  .—C
Hamilton Street School. .............. “
Highland School... ........ .... ....  .
Ingleside School... .... ........ ..  

* Joseph Metcalf School.............. “*
Kirtland School. .......... ..  
Morgan School...  ... .. 
Nonotuck Street School...............  “
Park Street School... ...... .... .....  h
Sargeant Street School................ 
South Chestnut Street School.......... RO
Springdale School... ..... ...... ..  
West Street School. ....... ..... ..  .
West Holvoke School. ................ “*
| William Whiting School. ............. *

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
|  
VI. NUMBER OF BATHS GIVEN AT WILLIAM
WHITING SCHOOL.

Day School Vacation Total
January... ..o..............  
February......................  
March...  
Aprils  
May  
Jones 
Ju  
August.  . |
September. ..... ............. |
October... }
November.....................  
December....................  

Total... 
VIT. RATES OF TUITION FOR NON-RESIDENT
PUPILS.
High School. Cee     .  per year
Elementary Schools... .. ............. per year
Payable half-vearly in advance.
Evening High School—determined by the Committee.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ee ccead
In Wemoriam
JESSIE MONTAGUE
For twenty-three years teacher in the Holyoke Public
Schools. Died April second, nineteen hundred and twelve.
KATHERINE A. O’CONNOR
For five years teacher in the Holyoke Public Schools.
Died November nineteenth, nineteen hundred and twelveA
|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
f. Organization January 
a rf ae aS es
Schools Teachers  CEs be UE
LE BAG
o
High: |
Howard Conant, Prin......  
Arthur J. McDonald.......  
Lillian W. Fay............  
Jason T. Draper..........  
M. M. S. Moriarty........  
Chas. H. Mumma.........  
Donald Mackenzie ........  
A. Adele Allen............  
A. Esther Barry...........]  
Alice C. Brown...........|  
Russell C. Brown.........  
Jason O. Cook............  
Helen B. Cronin..........]}  
Margaret T. Delaney......|  
Margaret E. Dixon........|  
Clyde B. Edgeworth.......  
Annie L. Gilligan..........  
George D. Hearn..........  
A. Omer Hebert...........  
Mrs. Theodora A. Hooker...  
Clara M. Ingraham........  
Mabel L. Judd............]}  
Anna M. Laporte.........  
Thos. J. McCoy...........  
Sarah H. McGrath........ 
Bertha Morgan.....*......|  
Charlotte A. Norris........]  
Margaret M. Powers......|  
Mary F. Riley............]  
Madeline L. Slade.........}  
Lena W. Slotnick.........]  
Amelia M. Stapleton......]  
John C. Varney...........  
Appleton Street:
J. Harry Kennedy, Prin... |$ 
Mary E. McManus........{  /IX  
Mary C. McTigue......... SO jIX 
Elizabeth A. Arnold.......| SOO |VITI 
Janet L. Somers...........}) 'VITI 
Josephine McDonnell...... will 
Emma G. Scolley......... /VH  
Mabel E. Waters.......... Ma  
Nora B. Healy............] (VII 

|
  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
-o oe et
OE gy ;
| vo .s
| og |
Schools Teachers SES, ae :
no SC  Be
a
Jennie B. Cassidy. ........ vi 
Isabel M. Stokes.......... 'V SO) i
Delia A. Moriarty......... HV  
East Dwight Street: |
Mary I. Hussey, Prin. .... 
Agnes Dowdall............  OOUV 
Della V. Flynn............  
Claire If. O'Neill.  ...) IV  
Antoinette FE. Charest... .. He 
Abbe G. Sullivan...  ...   
Mrs. Katherine T. Morris... UI  !)  
M. Elizabeth Bowe........{  :] 
Klm Street: |
Mary F.. Lawley, Prin. .... 
Mary M. Doyle........... TOO IVT  |
Agnes G. O’Connor........ |V-VI  {| 
A. Belle Smith...  ...  
Kstelle M. Curley.........  TV  
Nora Fh. Doyle...  ... TOO nt  
Hlelen F. Greaney.........])  ZOOUITI Yo
I. Veresa McIntee........    
Carrie [.. Alderman........ ITI  Si
Mary V. Herbert..........|  OOUI-TI  :
Emma M. Wilson.........}   S
Katherine S. Keough.  ... HOO 
Caroline Ik. Meacham......  Ketn  So ;
ehizabeth C. Burke...  ... mn ‘* .
Elmwood: |
Annie L. Stanstield, Prin... aad ‘
Lena I]. Spamer...  ... TOO ULV  On ms
; Ruth L. Porterfi)eld..  TV  .
Lilhan M. Chapman.......!  
Emma B. Ingraham.......) TOOT  
Katherine T. Chapin. ..... MNT :
Elizabeth M. Foley........   Kdith M. Bartlett...  .
Margaret A. MecHlueh..  ZOO  
Elizabeth A. Hloward.  ... TO) OF |
Julia R. Sheehan...  ...) TOOUT WN. 
Anna M. Ridnay. ........ BO 
Ida M. Invraham..... ..)  Ketn  
Jane R. Canavan...  ., vo
|
|

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
|
' p
|e} og la, Sho)  !
Schools Teachers FE og re Z
|  "EZ oA :
. eo en .
Ewineville; pf |
Mary A. Lynn............  
Helena A. Shine...........  IS.  
Hamilton Street: |
Jennie E. Scolley, Prin.. ... '$ 
Katherine R. Warren...... 'VI   
Hannah V. O'Brien........ VI SE]  
Ellen A. Kirkpatrick.......|  'V  
Agnes FE. Rohan... ......|  /V  |)  
Katherine Glasheen..  ... [LV  )
Mllen M. Ahern...  ... it  
Elizabeth M. Feeney. ..... TOO'TE  |
Helen H.R amage..  ... (TI 
Alice G. Collopy.......... TI WLV  OB
Katherine (, Scolley ......  ay OW}
Nora G. Linchan,. See... TOOT  I
Eleanor P.O’Grady....... {|  Ketn  
Mice M. Cleary...)  |
Hivhland: |
Jobn A. Callahan, Prin... ($ 
Katherine G. Shine........ IN  Se
Mary T. ’Donnell........ {IX  
Catherine A. Callahan. .... oe   
lucy B, Ramaye..........) 'V  
Ella. Smith... .......... EH 
Mary J, Brainard.........] VII 
Mary FE, Dooley. ......... {|  boa.  
Jennie ALK. Curley. ...... (VI 
Mary C.Shine............   
M. Gertrude Moriarty.....{ TOOHYV slap hla  
Sara W, Brennan..........  OOCTTI  
Katherine G. Sears........ ‘LI Hi 
|. Reeve Lynn... .........   
Mary Il. Batchelder.......|  Ketn 
A. Charlotte Leavitt. ..... |
nvleside:
B. Frances Donahue... ....  VIVE VIE)  
Avnes J. Donoghue. .......  TTI-TV  ,
Katherine C. Flood...  ... Y 
Hosen Metcalf: |
Michael J. Gre in... ($  |
Mary D. Greene vin THOUIN 
Mary V. Casey GOO UE 
M. Clara Cleveland. ...... fOO  VIET 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
ne)
 s| Es
Schools Teachers ae  Ets oe Us
al de od  
o
Katherine R. Burke.......|  |VIII 
Elsie M. Wing............|  |VII  
Alice H. Griffis............]  /VII  
Alice M. Donoghue........|  /VI 
Anna A. Dalton........... /VI  
Eva C. Moynihan.........|  /VI  
Alice A: Moss.............| TJOO|V  
Mary T. Canavan.........|  /V 
Kirtland: .
Katharine A. Mahoney, Pr.. |$ 
Annie E. Gaynor..........]|  )VII 
Claire E. Nugent..........|  /VI  
Margaret M. Bradley......}|  /V  
Agnes G. Scully...........| SOO}ITV  
Elizabeth J. Markham.....|  OOjIII  
M. Georgie Eaton.........|  |II 
Margaret G. Connor.......|  |I  
Nellie A. Perry...........]|  |Kegtn.   
Mae E. Alderman ........|  “
Morgan:
William IX. Judd, Prin. .... {$ 
Agnes M. Kelliher.........|  |/IX  
Ellen Pratt. .......] “S O)EX 
Clara H. Buckley.........|  /VIII   
Mary A. Donoghue........|  /VIII  
Mary J. F. Gorman.......|  /VII 
Lillian W. Murphy........|  /VII  
Rose M. Donovan.........|  /VII   
Katherine G. Gilligan......|  {|VI 
Marie H. Eckart..........|  /VI   
Margaret G. Haley........| |V  
Anne Halfpenny..........|  |V 
Bertha J;-Moodyiacsicscay'| “COONIV   
Mabel C. Teahan.........| TOO|IV  
Harriet -B. Grant.........)   
Mary A. Donoghue........|  /II  
tose’ Ee. /Healyts.cyecenceg: LOT  
Nonotuck Street:
Mrs. Sara E.. Wilcoxen, Prin. '$  
Theresa L.-Coffey..:+:..:.|  /VI 
Emma M. Swindt.........| TO |V   
Ranch, Wivey, ake | 
Katherine E. Shea....... |TII-IV 
Marty Ibe Peatitan osc. |T  
Annie N. Miller...........|  O(II  
Digitized by Google

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
“T Wadale
Schools Teachers Es ce YS
Ay dBi
  
Elizabeth M. Dalton...... re  
Mary A. Kennedy.........|  |I  
Park Street:
Emily L. Curran, Prin... .. {$ 
Annie F. Downing.........  OO|IV  
Ella G. Prouty............| |IV  
Teresa L. Dowd...........| ZOO{ITI  
Katherine M. Kennelly....| {III  
Katherine M. McCarthy... {II 
Margaret I. Corrigan......|  OO/II  
Katherine G. Coughlin.....!  II   
Anna M. Warren..........|   
Sargeant Street: |
Katherine M. Holmes, Prin. |$ 
Elizabeth M. Bigelow......| |\ 
Agnes C. Flood...........|  
Katherine V. Connor......| II! 
M. Ethel McTearnen......|  
Elizabeth Cowie..........|   
Mary A. Lynch...........|  
Katherine E. Paul.........)  ;Kegtn  
Jennie E. Collingwood.....|  “
So. Chestnut Street: |
Elizabeth M. O'Neill, Prin.. |{$ 
Louise F. Heinritz.........|  j|VI  
Josephine Gorman.........| |V   
Anna B. Fitzgerald........}|  OO|IV   
Katherine E. Browne......|  OO({III-IV   
Mary C. Murphy.........|  ZOO{III   
Ella M. Shea.............]  TOO|IT   
Theresa Conway..........|  OOjII  
Elizabeth A. Chapin.......|  OO|I  
Catherine E. Scullv........]  )I  
. Ada G. Ingraham.........  /Kegtn  
Helen V. Connor..........]|  “
Springdale:
Agnes C. Kelley, Prin... ... |$ 
Mary E. Casey...........  /VII-VIII  
Annie F. Sheehan.........  |VI 
Margaret E. Ryan........}] |V  
Grace A. O’Neill..........| |IV  Rose G. Herlihy..........  OO{III   
Nellie A. Lynch.........:.|  OOUII 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
fel lal die
v rf) ae) wy ome}  
Schools Teachers Es ce ie:
: me) ee") lcs
Mimaki:
Teresa V. Tucker.........|  ]I  
Frances Gilday...........|  |Kgtn  
Elizabeth M. Shine........{ 
West Street:
John J. Lynch............ {$ 
Mary L. Bowler...........|  ]IX  
Lillian FE. Kelly...........] |VIII  
Abbie L. Lynch...........}  /VII  
Mrs. Joanna McMahon....{|  {\VI Catherine G. Nutley.......|  O/VI   
Ellen K. McCarthy........]  l|V  
Audry V. Delaney.........]   
Katherine C. Conway......|  O|IV  
Anna J. Moynithan........|  OOJIII  
Mary A. Brown...........|  OOJIII  
Sarah E. Hayward........| OO|II  
Josie A. Moriarty.........]  OOJII  
aura G. Connor..........|  jI 
Katherine FE. Leary........|  |I  
Margaret G. Riley........ |Special   
Mary H. Power...........|  |Ketn  
Pearl S. Rand............}  “
West Holyoke:
Matthew S. Herbert....... [$  |I-IX  
William Whiting:
Esther M. Greeley, Prin....  
Anna M. Casey...........  /VII 
Septa F. Lynn............]  [VI   
Ellen M. Doyle...........]  |V   
{johanna V. Leahy.........]) ZOO|IV 
Ars. Elen M. Wellington... {ITI-IV  
Katherine M. O’Neill......  OO{III 
Eleanor E. Lyons.........|  OO{II  
Ella I. Healy............. ZOOUTT 
Eva C. Greaney...........  ]I ]
Mrs. Katherine Dillon.....|  ]I  
Mary M. Rohan..........]  ]I  
Kathryn U. Lynch........  /Ketn  
Grace A. Sullivan. ........]  ], ,
I

Special Departments
Manual Training: Salaries
Edwin M. Roberts, Supervisor........................... 
Chester B. Park, Assistant..............................  
William H. Whitney, Assistant ............. ... 
Domestic Arts:
Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins, Supervisor. ....................  
Rose C. Lynes, Assistant........    een  
Ruth Canavan, Assistant... ...  ....  ...     
Drawing:
Mrs. Isabelle H. Ferry, Supervisor............ ..... ..  
Mrs. Rose A. Dougherty, Assistant..................  
Grace D. Lynn, Assistant................   ee.  
Writing:
Esther A. MacDonnell. Supervisor.......................  
Music
Hugh Craig, Supervisor.................  ...  
Margaret F. McCarthy, Assistant..................... ..  
Physical Training:
Lawrence F. Dowd, Supervisor...... ........ ....... ..  
JANITORS.
Salarics
High William E. Kennedy........................ 
Edward Rourke............................  
James F. Walsh. ...........................  
Mrs. Mary Moynahan.....................  
Appleton John M. Hanley... ........................ SOL. 
E. Dwight William A. Moore..........................  
Elm L. J. Lannon....................... ......  
Elmwood Frederick P. Brown........................  
James Gage...  ...ce     
Ewineville B. F. Griffin...  ...       
Hamilton Frank J. Schirch........................... T. 
Highland John Ahern...  ....... ...............  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Salaries
Ingleside Patrick O’Shea.......................-+-..  
Jos. Metcalf Edward W. Bresnahan......................  
Kirtland William J. Morrison. .......................  
Morgan Charles R. Moreau.........................  
Nonotuck Thomas O’Connor...........  es 
Park James Walsh..............................  
Sargeant C. J. Donoghue... .......................-..  
So. Chestnut James Gilhooley...........................  
Springdale Joseph A. Gadbois.................  
West John J. Moriarty...........................  
W. Holvoke Annie Keyes................... +++ -+.  
Wm. Whiting Patrick F. Lynch..........................  
Spare Michael J. Moriarty........................  
Offices William B. Ropers... ........ 

Firemen:
High D. J. Kennedy............................. 
John Kennedy....................  
Matron:

Wm. Whiting Mrs. B. T. Clifford.........................  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
EVENING SCHOOLS. |
{
e  vo} oe |
Be SE;|
Schools Teachers Pe Oe |
$  €) ). 
ew es)  |
iq ———
P. J. Garvey, Prin... .................. [$ !
Oliver H. Bourque..............--  
Russell C. Brown...................... |
Mary A. Cleary.................- 
Dr. J. dela Neuville....................  
Laurence Forward......................| |
George D. Hearn.......................  
A. Omer Hebert.......................  
Margaret Millane......................  
Frank McTieue........................  
Chester B. Park................... ...  
George M. Prentice....................  
Edwin M. Roberts.....--....--........  
Elsie Schenker......................... .
Madeline L. Slade.....................}  
pilliam H. Whitney... .. 
cycen McCormick...  ... cence ee. B. Edgeworth... |
Industrial; t. Martin, Clerk................  
P. J. Garvey, Prin...    ee.  
Frank McTigue........................ :
Qobert M. LePour...     
Fao be,M. Prentice... Lee   eevee.  
rank M. O’Neill..................---.  
George Brien... .......  sec   ee.  
Angie C. Dickinson..................... |
Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins...............  
Rose C. Lynes..  ... cc    veces.  
Appleton Street:
William E. Judd, Prin...............   
fames Meikleham........ -.. 
illian W. Murphy............ ..  
Mary E. Dooley........... ... ----  |
Alorence E, Redington. .............-..,  
ree G. Sullivan...,
la T. Norris...  oc      
M. Elizabeth Bowe................  ...  
natbel O'Connor...    
Morgans  Lynch...  ...|
Vile \y- Greaney, Prin...............   ,
illian -Grant.......................  
Anna Falvey  
E. Teresa MeIntee.....  esses f
Elizabech poviby oss s  xd
Ellen Care Ye  |

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
.  s| Use
 |[s  
Schools Teachers  sé SESE
te 
|  “a
Teresa C. Mackey......................  
Hazel C. Walsh... ...................  
James F. Driscoll. .....................  
Agnes J. Donoghue.....................  
Rachel M. Potvin. .....................  
Bride C. Herbert....................... )
J. George Gottsman....................  
Mary V. Herbert.......................  
Agnes C. Scully ......................-  
Ileanor E. Lyons......................  
Louise M. Kennedy. ................... |]  
Flora Grandchamp.....................  
Margaret M. McHugh..................]  
Iva C. Moynihan. .....................  
Katherine M. O’Donnell................  
Alice Fenton... ...  --  
Helen G. Burke. .......................  
Agnes M. Cadieux, Clerk...............]  
West Street:
John J. Lynch, Prin. ................... 
Mary L. Herbert. ......................  
Lillian If. Kelly... ................. ...  
Helen R. Connor.......................  
Altee Gillis...     wee    
Mrs. Joanna R. McMahon..............  
Catherine G. Nutley....................  
Margaret G. Riley...  ...............  
Anna L. Cleary.  ... ce      
Margaret EF. Ryan.....................  
Marv H. Murphy......................  
Katherine C. Conway..................  
Rose M. Johnson. .... ................  
M. Agnes Movnihan....................  
William Whiting:
Frank J. Lynch...  ...     
Mrs. Katherine Dillon. .................  
[lizabeth B. Donahue... ...............  
Anna M. Casey. .......................  
Nellie A. Lynch... ..... ...............  
Katherine C. Lynch... .................  
Alice G. Baker... .. .... ............  
Mrs. Millie Burgess... ..................  
Margaret G. Connor....................  
Lula MeFaul.  .  ............... 
Catherine Glasheen ...... .............  
Mary J. O'Connell... ............  
Helen T. Kennedy. ....................  
Ruth Canavan LEB
Ruth Canavan. ........................  


’ REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
|
 sone Salaries
iho perintendent of Schools  Francis McSherry.................. 
“ Superintendent’s Clerk Mary J. Callahan..................  
ie Text Book and Supply Clerk Agnes M. Cadieux.................  
: High School Clerk Ida A. St. Martin..................  
Truant Officers Thomas W. Doyle, Chicf............  
Thomas FE. Gallagher...............  
Thomas H. Finn...................  
LIST OF AUTHORIZED TEXT BOOKS.
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Grade I.
, Beginner’s Primer
Sunbonnet Babies’ Primer
Wide Awake Primer
Rose Primer
Cyr Primer
Cyr First Reader
Child Life Primer
Child Life First Reader |
Aldine Primer |
Aldine First Reader |
Art Literature Primer .
Art Literature Book One |
Baker Carpenter Primer
Baker Carpenter First Year Language Reader
Stepping Stones to Literature First Reader
New Education Book One
Baldwin First Year Reader


  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Silver Burdett First Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book One
Action, Imitation and Fun Series:

The Little Red Hen

The Three Pigs

The Three Bears

Three Little Kittens—Chicken Little

Red Riding Hood—The Seven Kids

Bow-Wow and Mew-Mew

Puss in Boots—Reynard the Fox

Jack the Giant-Killer

Hop o’ My Thumb—Tom Thumb

Jack and the Bean Stalk and Other Tales

Grade II.

Aldine Second Reader
Cyr Second Reader
Child Life Second Reader
Stepping Stones to Literature Second Reader
New Education Book Two
Baldwin Second Year Reader
Silver-Burdett Second Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Two
Baker Carpenter Second Year Language Reader
Art Literature Book Two
Scudder’s Fables and Folk Stories |
Beckwith’s In Mythland, Vol. I. .
Baldwin’s Robinson Crusoe ,
Smith’s Eskimo Stories ;
Carroll’s Around the World Book One :

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Dunton Kelly First Book
Hyde Language Book  Revised.
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Two
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book II.
Grade III. .
Williams Choice Literature
New Education Book Three
Baldwin Third Year Reader
Silver-Burdett Third Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Three |
Art Literature Book Three
Baker Carpenter Third Year Language Reader
Baldwin’s Old Greek Stories
Longfellow’s Selections
Andrews’ Seven Little Sisters
Shaw’s Big People and Little People of Other Lands
Pratt’s Stories of Colonial Children
Wilson’s History Reader for Elementary Schools
Rafter’s City and Town
Dunton Kelly First- Book
Hyde Language Book  Revised
Steps in English Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Three
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book III.
American Music Reader I.
Grade IV.
Williams Choice Literature
New Education Book Four
Baldwin Fourth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Four
Baker Carpenter Fourth Year Language Reader
Whittier’s Selections
Longfellow’s Selections
Eggleston’s Stories of Great Americans

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Andrews’ Each and All
Hawthorne’s Daffy-Down-Dilly
Legends of the Red Children
Carroll’s Around the World Book Two
Frye’s Brooks and Brook Basins
Long’s Ways of Wood Folks
Tappan’s American Hero Stories
eed Word Lessons
Dunten Kelly First Book
Steps in English Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Four
Tarr-McMurry New Geography First Book, Part One
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book IV.
American Music Reader II. ,
Webster’s Common School Dictionary

Grade V.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Fifth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Five
Baker Carpenter Fifth Year Language Reader
Hawthorne’s Wonder Book
Longfellow’s Hiawatha
Eggleston’s First Book in American History
Builders of Our Country Book One
Carpenter’s North America
Carpenter’s South America
Long’s Wilderness Ways
Good Health, Guelick Scries .
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly Language Lessons
Steps in English Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Five
King’s IXlementary Geography
Prang’s Text Book of Art Iducation Book :

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

American Music Reader IT.
Webster’s Common School Dictionary

Grade VI.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Sixth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Six
Baker Carpenter Sixth Year Language Reader
Burrough’s Birds and Bees and Sharp Eyes
Hawthorne’s Tanglewood Tales
Longfellow’s Miles Standish
Long’s Secrets of the Wood
Builders of Our Country Book Two ,
Gordy’s American Leaders and Heroes
Carpenter’s Europe .
Carpenter’s Asia
Carpenter’s Africa
Carpenter’s Australia, Our Colonies, and Other Islands of the

Sea

Emergencies, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly Language Lessons
Steps in English Book Two
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Six
Tarr-McMurry New Geography Second Book, Part One
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VI.
American Music Reader ITI.
Webster’s Common School Dictionary

Grade VII.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Seventh Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Seven
Irving’s Sketch Book
ILamb’s Tales of Shakespeare

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Franklin’s Autobiography \
Holmes’ Selection \
Whittier’s Snow-bound ;
Kingsley’s Greek Heroes  
Longs’ Wood Folk at School
Town and City, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Dunton Kelly Grammar :
The Mother Tongue Book One
Steps in English Book Two
Milne’s Progressive Arithmetic Second Book
Tarr-McMurry New Geography Second Book, Part Two
Barnes’ School History of the United States
Montgomery’s American History
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VII.
American Music Reader ITI.
Webster’s Common School Dictionary ;
Grade VIII.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Eighth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Eight
Hawthorne’s Legends of New England
Hawthorne’s Tales of the White Hills
Longfellow’s Evangeline
Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal
Guerber’s Story of the Greeks |
The Body at Work, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
| Dunton Kelly Grammar
The Mother Tongue Book Two
Buchler’s Modern I:nglish Grammar
Steps in English Book Two
Milne’s Progressive Arithmetic Third Book
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Barnes’ School History of the United States .

| REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Montgomery’s American History
Higginson’s United States History  copies)
Scudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies) |
Higginson Channing’s English History for Americans )
American Music Reader IV. |
Natural Advanced Music Reader
Webster’s Common School Dictionary  
!
Grade IX.
Williams Choice Literature
Scott’s Ivanhoe }
Scott’s Lady of the Lake
Longfellow’s Tales of Wayside Inn
Bryant’s Selections
Guerber’s Story of the Romans
Julius Caesar
Merchant of Venice
Control of Body and Mind, Guelick Series
The Mother Tongue Book Two
Buehler’s Modern English Grammar
Lewis’ First Manual of Composition  copies)
Steps in English Book Two
Bradbury’s Eaton’s Practical Arithmetic
Bradbury Emery’s Algebra for Beginners
Wentworth’s Elementary Algebra
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Adams’ Elementary Commerical Geography
Keller Bishop’s Commercial and Industrial Geography
Barnes’ Schoo] History of the United States
Montgomery’s American History
, Higginson’s United States History  copies)
Scudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)
American Music Reader IV.
Natural Advanced Music Reader \
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Books for Teacher’s Desk.
Perry’s Bible Manual
Ireland’s Story, Johnson
Smith’s Physiology
Blaisdell’s Physiology
Dunglison’s Physiology
Books Not Assigned to Grades.
Union Series Physiology, Books One, Two and Three
Miller Spaulding Series of Spellers
HIGH SCHOOL.
English.
Author Title
Addison Sir Roger de Coverly Pa POET?
Arnold Sohrab and Rustum
Bacon Essays Civil and Moral
Brooke English Literature Prim 
Bryant Selections the
Burke Essay on Conciliation with
American Colonies .
Burke I’ssay on American Tax "
Burns Poems
Byron Selections (Arnold) ,;
Carlyle I’ssay on Burns
Chaucer Prologue and Knight’s  le
Coleridge The Ancient Mariner
Cooper The Last of the Mohica 
(

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  

DeQuincey Flight of Tartar Tribe

Dickens Tale of Two Cities

Dowden Life of Shakespeare (Primer)

Dryden Alexander’s Feast

Dryden Palamon and Arcite

Eliot Silas Marner

Emerson Fortune of the Republic :

Emerson IXssay on Culture, Books, etc.

Gayley Classic Myths

Genung Outlines of Rhetoric

Genung Practical Rhetoric

Genung Rhetorical Analysis

Goldsmith Deserted Village and The

Traveler

Goldsmith Vicar of Wakefield

Gray Poems (Selections)

Guerber Myths of Gre and Rome

Guerber Myths of Northern Lands

Hawthorne House of the Seven Gables

Hawthorne Tales of the White Hills and
Sketches

Hawthorne Twice Told Tales

Hawthorne The Wonder-Book

Hitchcock Enlarged Practice Book in
English Composition

Holmes Selections

Irving Sketch Book (Six Selections)

Irving The Alhambra

Irving Life of Goldsmith

Irving Tales of Traveler

Lincoln Gettysburg Sph

Longfellow Evengaline

Lowell Vision of Sir Launfal

Lowell Essay on Lincoln’s Gettysburg

Sph and Other Papers
Macaulay Essay on the Earl of Chatham

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Macaulay Life of Johnson
Macaulay Essav on Milton and Addison
Milton Lyrics
Milton Paradise Lost (Books and II)
Pancoast Introduction to English Literature
Plutarch Lives (Selections)
Pope Rape of the Lock
Pope Translation of the Iliad
Richardson American Literature (Primer)
Scott Ivanhoe
Scott Lady of the Lake
Scott Lay of the Last Minstrel
Scott Marmion
Shakespeare As You Like It
Shakespeare Hamlet '
Shakespeare Julius Caesar
Shakespeare King John
Shakespeare Macbeth (Gateway and Rote
Editions)
Shakespeare Merchant of Venice
Shakespeare Midsummer Night’s Drea *
Shakespeare Twelfth Night
Shakespeare Sonnets
Shakespeare Antony and Cleopatra
Shakespeare Henry V.
Shakespeare Henry VIII.
Shakespeare King Lear |
Shakespeare Much Ado About Nothira &
Shakespeare Othello
Shakespeare Romeo and Juliet
Shakespeare The Tempest
Shakespeare Two Noble Kinsmen
Shakespeare Winter’s Tale
Southey Life of Nelson
Spenser Faeric Queen I.
i

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Spenser Faerie Queen II.
Tennyson Poems
Thoreau Succession of The Forest Trees
Warner Hunting of the Deer
Webster First Bunker Hill Oration
Wordsworth Poems (Arnold Selections) |
French.
Daudet Tartarin de Tarascon
Dumas La Tulipe Noire :
Francois Advanced French Prose Composition
Francois and Giroud Simple French
Fraser and Squair Elementary French Grammar
Fraser and Squair French Grammar
Halevy L’Abbe Constantin
Labiche Martin La Poudre aux Yeux
Labiche Martin Le Voyage de M. Perrichon
La Fontaine Fables
Lamartine Jeanne d’Arc ,
Larousse Grammaire Francaise
Logie About, Le Roi des Montagnes
Loti Pecheur d’Islande
Merimee Colomba
Moliere Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme
Pailleron Le Monde ou  ’on S’Ennuie
Sandeau Mlle. de la Seigliere
Sarcey Le Siege de Paris
Super French Reader
German.
Beacon Im Vaterland
Baumbach Die Nonna
Freytag Soll und Haben
Freytag Die Journalisten

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Goethe Dichtung und Wahrheit
Goethe Hermann und Dorothea
Guerber Machen und Erzahlungen,
Parts I-II
Heath German Directory
Heine Die Harzreise
Jagemann Syntax
Joynes-Meissner German Grammar
Kayser and Monteser Brief German Course
Lessing Minna von Barnhelm
Manley Allen Four German Comedies
Moser Der Bibliothekar
Pope German Composition
Riehl Der Fluch der Schonheit
Schiller Wilhelm Tell
Storm Immensee
Wildenbruch Das Fdle Blut
Supplementary German.
Blaumbach Der Schweigersohn
Hauff Das kalte Herz
Heyse L’Arrabbiata .
Von Hillern Hoher als die Kirche !
Latin and Greek. |
Allen and Greenough Virgil  
Allen and Greenough Cicero
Allen and Greenough Caesar i
Allen and Greenough Ovid :
Allen and Greenough Latin Grammar
Allen and Greenough New Latin Grammar |
Barss Cornelius Nepos
Barss Writing Latin, Book One, Revised Edition
Barss Writing Latin, Book Two, Revised Edition .

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMUTPTER  
; Bennett Cicero de Senectute and de
Amicitia
Bennett New Latin Composition
Collar and Daniell Greek Composition |
D’Ooge Viri Romae ,
Goodwin Greek Grammar
Goodwin and White Xenophon’s Anabasis
Hale First Year Latin
Herberman Sallust’s Cataline
Jones Latin Composition
Keep Use of Moods and Tenses
Kirtland Fabulae Faciles
Moulton Latin Composition
Potter New Method for Caesar
Seymour Homer’s Odyssey
Walker Caesar’s Civil War, Text [dition
White First Greek Book
History.
Ashley American Government
Channing History of the United States
Cheney Short History of England
Johnson Ireland’s Story
McLaughlin History of the American Nation
Myers Ancient History
Walker Essentials in) English History,
Revised
West Ancient History
Wolfson essentials of Ancient History
Mathematics.
Hall and Knight School and College Algebra
Hedrick Algebra
Sanders Elements of Plane and Solid
Geometry

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Wentworth Elementary Algebra
Wentworth Revised Plane Geometry
Wentworth Revised Plane and Solid Geometry

Wentworth Second Revision Plane and

Spherical Trigonometry
Wentworth and Hill Five Place Logarithmic and Tngonometric Tables
Science.

Ary, Bryant, Clendenin, Morrey Physiography
Atkinson Botany for Schools
Clark General Science
Clark and Dennis  Elementary Chemistry
Clark and Dennis Laboratory Manual for Above
Carhart and Chute High School Physics
Coulter Plants
Russell Kelley Laboratory Manual for FirstYear Science
Tarr Von Engeln Laboratory Manual for Physical |

Geography |

Commercial. |
Carrington Speed Book for Typewriting |
Daly  Advanced Rational Speller |
Eldridge Shorthand Dictation Exercises
Gannett, Garrison Houston Commercial Geography '
Gano Commercial Law |
Isaac Pitman Short Course in Stenography
Van Tuy! Complete Business Arithmetic
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping |
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Banking !
i

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Domestic Science.
Norton Food and Dietetics
| Williams and Fisher Elements of the Theory of
Cooking
Elocution.
Emerson Evolution of Expression, Vol.  and  
Evening Schools. .
Chancellor Standard Short Course for
. Evening Schools |
Crampton Hygiene for Workers
Ewart, Field Morrison Civil Service Manual
Field and Covenay English for New Americans
Holton Shop Mathematics
McDonald Foundations in English
O’Brien English for Foreigners
Rafter City and Town
Teller and Brown Business Methods

| Graduating Classes HIGH SCHOOL.
Florence Irene Allen Mabelle Viola Lanktree
— Donna Beatrice Allvn Mederic Jerome Laporte, Jr.
Carl Harry Baesler Kdith Constance LeDuke
Nicholas Francis Baker Eloise Eurydice Leining
Harold Rhodes Bassett Edna May Lyon
Mary Agnes Boardway Clarence Joseph McCrohan
Philip Edgar Bond Francis Howard McCullough
Hazel Anna’ Bradshaw Dorothy Seaver McLeod
Ernest Walker Bray Isabel Marguerite MacMenigall
James Leslie Bray Esther Allen Madsen |
Edith Frances Brown Frank Joseph Manley
Maude Claire Brown Esther Sadie Marks
Florence Clara Burkhardt Edith Mae Martin ,
Rose Gladvs Burstein Helen Phin Martin
Gerald James Callahan Loutse Morton
Wellington Lorenzo Cantin Claire Cecelia Murphy
Bessie Mabell Carrier Ralph Francis Murphy
Frederick William Childs Frances Dinsmore Murray
Mary Teresa Clark William Joseph Norton
Martha Beatrice Cook Klizabeth Evelyn Nugent
Pearl Maude Cook Grace Mae Nugent
Josephine Lucile Coolev Clare Eleanor O'Connor
Mary Constance Crane Vincent Oddo
John Cunningham John Joseph O’ Donnell
Clinton Earle Daggett Alice Dorothea Parfitt
Beulah Mabel Darby Iesther Varina Parfitt
Ada Bertha Davies esther Katheryn Payne /
Margaret Claire Desmond Alice Maude Pearce |
Marion Lorena Dibble William Russell B. Peck a

: REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
|
Norma Esther Dreicorn Thomas Edison Pope
Louise Gwendolyn Fenton Edwin Claude Prescott
, Cecilia Agnes Freeman Harold William Pringle
| Louise Margaret Franz Nellie Emma Rand
Elin Victoria Friberg Yvette Jeanne Rodier
William Henry Gaylord Charles Henry Roy
John Cornelius Geran Vivian Luella Roy
Margaret Jeanne Gillis Matilda Christine Schuster .
John Russell Gilmore Bridie Cecelia Shea
Walter Richard Glynn Grace Esther Shea
Helen Clare Griffin James Edward Shea
Cyril Cavanaugh Hafey Carl Douglas Smith
Claude Milton Haggerty Mary Smith
Venetia Hall Harold Bridgman Stedman
Kathryn Louise Hallisey George Francis Stone
Conrad Rechard Hemond Edward Joseph Sullivan
Carroll Russell Herbert Dennis Stuart Sullivan |
Samuel Stanwood Holbrooke Stanley Robert Waring
Elizabeth McIntosh R.Hunter Catherine Weiser
Catherine Reith Jameson Edwin Francis Wesley
Henry Cyril Karle Marion Wetherell
Viola Augusta Koegel Kate Hardy Whitmore
Idmond John LaBreque William Howard Wilson
Arthur Edward J. LaCroix Carolyn Thelma Wolfe
Cora Marie Lalonde Ruth Agatha Yoerg
Clara Lambert
APPLETON STREET SCHOOL
Hazel Anderson Astley Viola Elizabeth Burgess
Cecil E. Yvonne Avard Grace Jennett Burke
E’ffie Louise Barnes Edith Faith Cassie
Marion Agnes Beauregard Charlotte Katharine Church
Esther Mary Bieber Elizabeth Gibson Clarke
Marion Ruth Brown Margaret Lauretta Coffee
Minnie Christiana Buchanan Eva Isabel Dean
Helen Alathea Burgess Lillian Marie Donoghue

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Rachel Margaret Dunn Mary Frances White
Laura Sluyter Dwight Harald Ralph Baker
Rennie Mae Ellis George Alex Baume
Irene Veronica Fitzgerald Ottmar James Bergmann
Anna Tamor Gold Francis Nelson Bligh
Reta Margaret Graves Richard Harlow Brierly
Lillian Mae Hanley Ernest Clark Bryan
Ida Dorothy Hoffman Victor Canova
Christine McKenzie Hooks Edgar Onil Demers
Margaret Kagwin David Francis Fitzgerald
Margaret Elizabeth King John Francis Fitzgerald
Edith Hooper Marshall Eugene Forham
Ella Elsie Martin Peter Louis Fulponi
Lucy Frances Marcille Burton Augustus Gallup
Esther Christine Miller Herbert Raymond Goepner
Mary Esther Moore Edwin Gilbert Goss
Helen Elizabeth Moriarty William Jennings Goss
Ella Merle Mulholland Richard John Harrington
Mary Madelin O’Connor Thurlow Clark Haunton
Irene Elizabeth O’Connor John Reid Herd
Mary Alexandria O’Donnell Esbon Elton Heck
Margaret Joyce O’Neill Orril Everett Hirt
Elsie Janet Pinney Morris Housen
Bessie Pomerantz Samuel Levinson
Esther Mary Renner Lewis Sinclair MacDonald
. Rebecca Rickles Arthur Louis More
Esther Mae Sharpe George Andrew Moreau
Agnes Ruth Sinclair Howard Chester Myers
Ruth Ancoats Smethurst John Nitkiewicz
Sarah Brown Sturges John Ernest Norton
Bridget Louise Sullivan Raymond Martin O’Connell
Helen Theresa Sullivan George Prew Savoy
Elsie Esther Unterdorfel Everett Walter Shaw
Evelyn Clare Young Warren Walter Small
Agnes Mabel Weir Joseph Adam Stacy
Gertrude Madeline White William Henrv Shine

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Walter Lester Snider Arthur William Wilmot
Archibald Cuthbertson Tye Fairfield Whiting .
Raymond Vincent Walsh Walter Frederick Zenner

ELMWOOD SCHOOL

Elsie May Arnold Dorothy Peterson
Catherine Merrill Allyn Mary Agnes Prendergast
Alfreda Oriet Baush Jennie Pauline Richter
Mary Agnes Begley Hattie Clara Siegert
Anastatia Genevieve Begley Frances Margaret Smith
Alice Marie Bleasius Veronica Anastatia Tatro
Sadie Bloome Ada Elizabeth Winkler
Nellie Frances Brown Amy Grace Wright
Helen Elizabeth Brown Esther Mary Young
Elizabeth Chase Alexander Auld
Lulu Alice Chase Cornelius R. Bresnahan
Garnett Elizabeth Crossley George Hardiman Bradshaw
Henrietta Oldfield Durant Ernest Leroy Brougham
Minnie Augusta Felgentrager John T. Byrnes
Ruth Forsythe Harold Charles Burnett
Ruth Henrietta Friedrich Edwin Ralph Dean
Frances Mary Gleason David Edward Davies
Minnie Dell Hanton Welton Jerome Donovan
Lillian Maude Heath Harry Heath Feather
Susie Elizabeth Harrington Harold Frank Hanemann
Hazel Gladys Holden Fdgar Robert Horne
Edythe Mae Kelley John Neill Horne
F.loise Catherine Kennedy Herman Kaplinsky
Hazel Mae Learmonth William Francis Keane
Ella Levenson. Alexander James Lapointe
Mary Gertrude Lynch Matthew Francis McLean
Bertha Elizabeth Marx Wilfred Milnes
Henrietta Chase Mackintosh Sumner Goddard Perkins
Amelia McAuslan Julius Birger Peterson
Rosetta McKinstrie Henry Frederick Pueschel
Rose Hazel O’Connell Everett Reed

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Solomon Reuben Roberts Harold F. Sussenguth
Icdward Walter Shea Raymond Albert Swanson
Timothy Francis Shea William Unterdorfel
William Shea Romeo Valliere
Harry Skolnik [eric D. Wassel
Frank Ernest Snyder Harold Birney Whitmore
Herman G. Steiner
| HIGHLAND SCHOOL
Elizabeth Abramson Helen Emma O’Connell
Irene Mabel Clark Helen Marie O’Connell
Lillian Johnson Craigie Honoria O’Connor
Lena Mae Davis Lucy Miriam Pearce
Hazel Ethelyn Dewey Virgima Anna Puliti
; Margaret Carlon Foley Gladys Edith Randall
. Laura [lizabeth Fuller Victoria Julia kk. Rohde
Mary Louise Mildred Geran Anna Rosamond Ryan
Grace Winifred Gregory Helen Spencer
Mary Idna Gilligan Mildred Ann Stedman
Dorothea Amelia Herder Iethel Beatrice Stewart
Mabel Katherine Horrigan Ilorence [X. Wallington
Rose Mary Redempa Keane Christine Elizabeth Weir
Marv Elizabeth Kirkpatrick Margaret Anna Wesely
Margaret L. Kirkpatrick Viola White
| Mary Arline Lynch James Aloysius Ahern
Cathcrine Lvons Karl Henry Alderman
Mary Hazel Mahoney James Matthew Ashe
Mary [Elizabeth Markey Percy Edward Boyle
Marion Mildred Marshall Isadore Breslan
Doris Pauline Martin Robert Prentiss Carrier
Zeta Genevieve Nason Prescott Childs )
Ruth Helen McCarthy John Edward Crean
Gertrude Irene \IcCuddy Robert Cleighton Day
Catherine L. Af{cCullough Joseph Paul Eaton
Helen Marie McDonald Monte Aaron Feinstein |
Isabel Morrow Walter Oscar Frever

|
|
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
Gardiner Thomas Gorham Wilham Patrick Reardon
Henry George Guenther Carlvle Redford
Nourbourn Leonard Henchey Rov Riggott
Joseph Michael Hickey Wilham Raymond Ross
Cornelius Grover Hicks George Ryan
Allen Smith Hunter Idward Bear Sheaffer
George Whipple King Edgar Charles Simes
Warren Edwin Leland Joseph Valentine
Francis Edward Lynch Alfred Welch
Benjamin Franklin Perkins George Lewis Welch :
Herbert Bates Pickup Roger Irving Whipple
MORGAN SCHOOL
Jessie Gill Bain Irma Keller
Lillian Eleanor Baessler Imma Minnie Kuenzel
Eva Lucia Balthazard Lena Sophia Lalonde
Bertha Barowsky Helen Hattie Loebel 
Mae Agnes Gertrude Begley Mila Martin
Aline Anna Benard Helen Ottilia Micon
Marie Antoinette Bibeau Rose Mekler
Mathilda Isabel Bolduc Anita Melodie Messier
Johanna Bollenbach Annie Black Miller
Olga Bonaker Mary Agnes O'Donnell
Rose Teresa Borlen Iucia Marie Pariscau
Helen Fanny Brogle Ruth Esther Perry
Lillia Ida Brouillet Hattie Ilclen Reschke
Loretta Catherine Burke Irene Olive Roy
Lilian Gertrude Coderre Loria Beatrice Rondeau
Catherine Veronica Clark Margaret Mason ‘Tullock
Eva Caplan Hilda Irene Taylor
Klla Charlotte Ernst Charles James Thos. Barnett
Milda Theresa Flath Philip Henry Bloom
Lilian Marion Godette George Hlenry Wm. Brunelle
Jean Waddell Halliday Walter Gustave Otto Brunn
Mabel Genevieve Hooker Itdward Thomas Burke
Frieda Sophia Hucbner Robert ’mmet Byrnes

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
Dominic Gregory Crane Harry Parker Hall
William Degan Roderick Joseph Hortie
George Dineen Walter Robinson Hoyt
Edgar Romuald Ducharme John Kraushar
Albert Edward Farr Hugo Emil Krausse
Richard August Felgentrager Norman Staples Loudon
 Arthur William Frank Louis Mandelkern
Paul Geissler Fred Amos Peterson
Edward Reginald Gogolin Joseph Edward Dav. Trinnell
John Thomas Healy Edward Lincoln Wildner |
George Louis Hemond |
WEST STREET SCHOOL )
Stella Mary Cayer George Aitchison ,
Anna Belle Chalebois Stanley Bober |
Clara Mary Equi William Russell Canfield
Bertha Frances Gannon Thomas Byron Canfield
Anna Madeline Grogan William Edward Halliday
Catherine Patricia Grogan Frank Armand LaPierre
Elizabeth Mary Halley Philip Nathan Marcus
Ethel May Knopp Victor Emanuel Musante
Helen Hilda Johnson Walter Paul Manning
Margaret Eleanor McGrath Thomas Clayton Naylor
Alice Elizabeth MacMahon Richard A. Monoghan Povost ,
Mary Agnes Maloney George Henry Smith
Grace O’Leary John Francis Wolfe
Anna Rigali ;
WEST HOLYOKE SCHOOL
Ernest Christian Bluemer

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
James J. Baker John Kirley
James J. Ballou Thomas F. Lynch
Samuel T. Briggs Flora M. Marcil
Henry Bollenbach Valentine B. Marcil
George Clark Edna E. Marrs
Frederick I. Craven Mary V. McCarthy
Daniel P. Donoghue Mary G. Moynihan
Rena A. Duffy Delia Pauze
Lena W. Griffin Valentine L. Roberts
Edith Hawkins  Mary F. Rooney
Colonel E. Holgate Adelard P. Vachon
Bridget C. Kennedy Winifred M. Walden
John M. Kiely Emile L. Willemain
APPLETON STREET EVENING SCHOOL.
Rudolph Frederick Bannow  Fredolin William Kelmel
Irene Frances Bresnahan Charles Kleinburg
Anna Alice Casey Blanche Helen Lemelin
John Richard Clare Gladys Olive Minta
John Harrison Cheetham Manuel Mandelkern
Ellen Christiansen Henry Louis Mathey
Mary Gertrude Curran Helen Veronica Moynahan
Albert Edward Deacon Mary Cecilia Mittler
Agnes Cecilia Doherty Margaret Mary Regali :
Anna Marie Doherty Jessie N[cAdam Philip
Thomas Bowman Dooley Elizabeth Bridget Shea
Bertha Christina Gehan Walter John Swords
Charles Graham Mary Agnes Ward
Francis Joseph Gill Raymond John Ward
Margaret Haberman Isabel Ferguson Whitelock
William Hoppinson Stanley Gordon Whitelock
John Hynd William Waycott

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
MORGAN EVENING SCHOOL.
Victoria Amelia Burgen Theresa Agnes Long
Corine Emma Dufresne Louis Joseph Madru
Florence Escott Joseph John Miesch
John Benjamin Freedman Amadale Charles Musante
Armand Norbert Gauthier Margaret Ritha Morin
Helen Varolina Gavron Irene Helenna Ostiguy
Adelmard Desire Grandchamp  Marcella Vitalina Pariseau
Mary Cecilia Hurley Rose Alma Pronovost
Mary Tlora Lachapelle Frances Schewchuk
WEST STREET EVENING SCHOOL.
Mary Barclay Alfred Ralph LeBreton
Marie Anna Bergeron Loretta Evelyn Martin
Madeline Alphonsine Bronner  Anna Rita McLain
Alva Antonia Charest Alice Veronica McKenna
Archie Collins Anna Frances McSweeney
Raoul Alfred Desjardins Louis Joseph Parent .
Joseph Patrick Duffy Iethel Veronica Rayner
Edward Dunford Margaret Rose Ross
Agnes Beatrice larly Joseph Henry Riley
Leon Alexander Gagnon John Francis Shea
Max Goodstein Evelyn Rose Shea
Marie Ange Joyal Flora St. Pierre
Asteria May Lafaille Flora Dolores Supernant !
Lillian I’stelle Lasonde Alma [chzabeth Therioux
Emma Estelle Lebeau |
WILLIAM WHITING EVENING SCHOOL. |
Charles Day Helen Marek
Wilfred Delude Alfred Rushworth
|

REPORT OF
Truant Officers
To the School Committee of Holyoke.
Gentlemen:—The report of the truant officers for the school
 year ending June  th,  is herewith submitted. It is the
thirty-eighth annual report of this department.

Mr. Thomas H. Finn served the probationary period of
six months as truant officer. He faithfully performed the
duties of his office and was permanently appointed in January,
 .

In September the Committee on Attendance, Census and
Truancy appointed seven men to take the school census. Instead of doing the work by school districts as had always been
the custom it was decided to take the census by wards: The
work was begun September  th,  and was not finished until
the Ist of the following December. The children enumerated
between the ages of and years totalled to  less
than the total reported in  The work was not done
properly. This is shown in the table “Where These Children
Are to be Found. Competent, experienced and  reliable
persons should be employed to do this census work.

The following tables give the time schedule of the truant
officers, the census of the children between the ages of and  
years by wards in September,  and by districts for  ;
they give the number attending the public, private and parochial schools; the number at work, and the number neither at
work nor at school. Other statistics and statements from this
office are given hcrewith.

|

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TIME SCHEDULE.
Thomas W. Doyle
  a. m. Elm St. School......... p. m. Nonotuck St. School...
(Tues. and Thurs.)
  a. m. William Whiting School p. m. Highland School (Tues.
  a. m. Mater Dolorosa School.. and Thurs.)
  a. m. Appleton St. School... p. m. Kirtland School (Mon.
  a. m. So. Chestnut St. School. Wed. and Fri.)
Upon notification, Ewingville......
| Upon notification, West Holyoke. .
Thomas E. Gallagher
  a. m. West St. School........ p. m. St. Jerome School.
  a. m. Fast Dwight St. School. p. m. Perpetual Help School.
  a. m. Holy Rosary School. ...
  a. m. Immaculate Conception
School. |
Thomas H. Finn.
  a. m. Precious Blood School....| Upon notification, Joseph Metcalf
  a. m. Park St. School. ....... School. .
  a.m. Hamilton St. School.... Upon notification, Elmwood School.
  a. m. Sargeant St. School..... Upon notification, Springdale
  a. m. Morgan School......... School.
  p. m. Sacred Heart School, Upon notification, Ingleside School.
(Tues and Iri.)
TABLE I. SCHOOL CENSUS.
Wards,  ...| PA}  (Total
pis  
Districts, .{   
pa ia Is!  oe
Net loss. ...    |e... fee. nnren “Te  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE II. WHERE THESE CHILDREN ARE
TO BE FOUND.
i” Net
  Gain Loss Loss
No. attending the public schools....... 
“* ‘St. Jerome Schools.........] 
‘é ‘** Precious Blood School......| 
“ ** Sacred Heart Schools.......| 
‘s ‘* Perpetual Help School......| 
é Holy Rosary School........| 
“é “Immaculate Conception
School...................]  ]
“ Mater Dolorosa School......{ 
“ “Mt. St. Vincent School...... 
““ ‘* Holy Family Institute...... 
“* ‘* Private kindergarten........  
“ ‘** other private schools........  
‘* ** at work in mills, shops, stores,
CUCL       ees  
** neither at work nor at school...»...| 
** minding house, or housework.......  
“ deaf and dumb-..................  ]
“blind...    
‘* otherwise affected. ...............  
Total...    ees |LO  Ta 
The following tables show that the total number of children
between the ages of and years neither at work nor at school
is  less than in  Of these, are under the school
age  years) and are not obliged to attend school; are over
the compulsory school age  years.) This leaves children
between the ages of and years who were not attending any
school at the time when the census was being taken. Some of
these children were physically and mentally unfit to attend
school, and others having just come to the city were not then
permanently located. ‘Table IV shows the number of children
(over years of age and under  in each ward at work in the ,
mills, shops and stores; also the number working at home.

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
| TABLE IIT. NEITHER AT WORK NOR AT SCHOOL.
cia  |S; a)  
Sy  SF] tp Sey ay mim lt ayale
In on)  
om  () () i} os os:
Y Vv Vv tv) vu Vv ov) Ps) Lemel -
e|/ v|/ezy} eg] vx} ese] oe]  ], e] e}o]/  S| &
fel  zl el elélé
:Brod  a
Ward L........... GE] OF GI  !
Se  OF Ly  
OB   IS] 
A AS OT] 
a) res oe  
“ ... OP ty  |
OTe. Bt |
Total...  ... fi anf ae]   
TABLE IV.
  WARDS fl 
employed in mills, shops and stores... [S  
Minding house or doing housework... "|  
Total for  ... ......  [D  
— Votalfor IM fee eed pee bf.  

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE V. ABSENTEES REPORTED.
 [a j}siasj/a/s/Sy alata
 
SCHOOLS “|SlA)S/S/ )/ ); /F)/  -) St og rs)
aleleislelsetasleltsle|
ck be Re tl ed ged
William Whiting......  
Appleton Street...... &} SS]  
IKlm Street...........]  
So. Chestnut Street... IS} S{   
Nonotuck Street......  
Highland. ...........
Park Street..........]|  
Hamilton Street....../  &|/  
Sargeant Street.......   IS}  
West Street..........  
Springdale........... |.  
Elmwood............] &| 
Morgan............. TS}  IS} 
Kirtland.............  );  
East Dwight Strect®. 
St. Jerome........... SE}  
Precious Blood.......  
Sacred Heart........   
Perpetual Help.......|  
Holy Rosary........./   
Immaculate Conception................]) Ty   
Mater Dolorosa......|  );  IS}! 
Ingleside. ........... )
Total...........    
* East Dwight Street School was opened December,  .

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE VI. PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
| slaloialiafa;/Saia;als
oOo};  oO} —
SCHOOLS A/SlA/SiS Alafia lal gs
eleleldileldleléleiere
 Oy oO! f) \
igisizialsigislelei al
William Whiting......   
Appleton Strect......  
Film Street...........  
So. Chestnut Street...  
Nonotuck Street...... l|  
Highland............
Park Street..........  
Hamilton Street......|   ]
Sargeant Street.......   
West Street...........   
Springdale...........  
Flmwood............]  
Morgan.............   
Kirtland... ........... 
East Dwight Street*.   
St. Jerome...........  
Precious Blood.......   
Sacred Heart.........  
Perpetual Help... ...  
Holy Rosary.........] {|  
Immaculate ConcepLION...ee   Ll]   
Mater Dolorosa.......  S| 
Ingleside...  ...  
Total...........   :
FP OTARLPED Jae [OED [SES [DOE  [OOF Jed [SOW |v
* East Dwight Street School was opened December,  |
i
 

| |
REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE |
TABLE VII. ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
 
eelsegisgels
siaiginala galas
SCHOOLS RUSSIAS 
glegdga  e
Wa PiS bizia Sine ,
mam Whiting............ 
Appleton Street. “es  
Elm Street  
o. Chestnut   ueeues
Nonotuck Street 
Hignland. Ce ee
ar Street
Hamilton Street. 
argeant Streets ;
West Stren ete   LAL of
Springdale.  
mwood   ettet  .
Morgan Uotocttettess   
Kirtland,  
go fereeht Street. 
Preci mee lee. BL AT  ); 
recious Blood  
Sacred Heart. Cr  
Perpetual Help oa .
Holy Rosary.  
Immaculate Conception. Leena  
Mater Dolorosa.  
Ingleside...
Sa DS OS OOO UO OS (OO DO
 Total... 

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE
TABLE VIII. TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
  ,
P| i.fe| 
is!  :
SCHOOLS ) [Ret et! 
| ar gs gel  !
]  rs) Ss "x
fer eleélel  if  
William Whiting. ............... 
Appleton Street.................] 
elm Street.....................] 
, So. Chestnut Street..............]  
Nonotuck Street. ............... 
Highland. ...... .... ...... .
Park Street.....................]  
Hamilton Street.................
Sargeant Street... ............ .. S|  
West Street....................  
Springdale. ...... ...  ]
Elmwood. ......  ...  OO] 
Morgan. ....................... |] 
Kirtland.  ...  . Tt  
East Dwieht Street. ..... ...... 
St. Jerome... .....-...- 
Precious Blood... .... .. .. .... 
Sacred Tleart. ... .. .. S| &} 
Perpetual Help...  ... .. ..... 
Holy Rosary...   Wy  
Immaculate Conception..........] 
Mater Dolorosa... .......... ... 
Ingleside...  ... ee.
Total...  ... en  |; 
. |
}

REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE  
TABLE [X. RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE
STREETS.
To TOC ln ir iar joy ue meena
   
; SCHOOLS (SIZ SS Sa. 
a
EB gig ef 
KEKE EAA A
William Whiting... ...... ......../  
Film Street... ................ ..  
Park Street. .... ...  
West Street.... ................] 
St. Jerome... .. ............  
Precious Blood. ..................  
Holy Rosary. ..... .. .. .. 
Immaculate Conception. ..........  ]
East Dwight Street...............  
Sargeant Street. ...... .......... {]  &
Elmwood. ...... .................  
Morgan. ............. ce   
Sacred Heart... .... ... .. .. ..  
Hamilton. .... .. ... ... ... l
Mater Dolorosa... ................ 
Toad for ng  ‘Fotal for SS) re  , 
TABLE XA. AGGREGATES.
ae aoe   
B jus ae
felis BP SLE, bo 
FE ESE SL  ec  
(  Bis  #:
| po FES
| ;
September, ................] SIT!  et  
October, WME BIT  BAY  BOB, Ld
November, .... ... ....... BOF  
December,  ...... ... .....;  h)  |
January, WIZ... AOS, oS:  |
February,  ................ S)  SI |
March, Ls  
April,  RTS BOO Pot
May, RO dO ma  
June, pe ST  Te
a -—— a
Total for .. .. BOW 
Total for WH ST  SST] BT] GSP  

  REPORT OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE :

From September Ist,  to September Ist, 
age and schooling certificates were issued as compared with  
issued from September Ist,  to September Ist,  The
number of certificates of literacy for minors issued from
September Ist,  to September Ist,  was  and the
number of certificates issued to illiterate minors was  .

The following table shows the number of age and schooling
certificates issued to males and females. It also shows the
number of minors between the ages of and whose applications for certificates were rejected on account of inability to
pass the required test.

TABLE XI. AGE AND SCHOOLING CERTIFICATES
ISSUED AND REFUSED.
Number Issued Number Refused

Ages Males |Fem’s {Total |Males |Fem’s Total
  to  ...  to  ... ll
  to  ...  tol ..  

Total.....  

During the school year ending June  th,  summonses were served for truancy. Six boys were committed to
the Training School in Springfield. Seven were placed on probation by order of the court, their cases being continued from
date to date. We have now boys at the Hampden County
Training School.

Respectfully submitted,
T. W. DOYLE,
| Chief.

REPORT OF THE
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, City of
Holyoke, Mass. |

Gentlemen:—The thirty-ninth annual report of the City
tingincering Department for the year ending November  ,

 is hereby submitted.

RECEIPTS.
By appropriation...........  ... +...  
Balance from  ................. .....  
Gas and Electric Department.....................  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.

Salaries of City Engineer and assistants............  
City Directory...ee  
Engineering periodicals..................  
Office supplies..........          
Typewriting for Gas and [tlectric Department (special)  
Printing and binding......................  
Telephone service... ..........       
Team hire and carfare........................-.-.  
Balance unexpended............. ue  ). 
| 

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

Section of the Revised Charter says—

“The City Engineer shall give his whole time to the city
and shall have sole charge and control of and shall attend to
all the engineering work of the city.

In the exercise of the duties of his office, your City Engineer
was called upon during the year to perform the usual services
connected with the work of the various boards and officials
of the city. |

PAVEMENTS.

The permanent highway work done during the year in
the paving of streets includes the brick pavement laid in
Sargeant Street and the bituminous macadam on concrete base
laid in Jackson street.

The length of new pavement is miles.

The later pavement is the first of its kind that has been
laid in this city and we have every reason to believe that it
will be found to give good service for ordinary travel.

The following streets were re-surfaced with tar macadam
coating. Northampton street from Morgan street to the Dry
Bridge at Ingleside, and from the Dry Bridge to the West
Springfield line; the Springfield road from Brightside to the
Springdale school; Bh street from Appleton to Cabot
strects; Pleasant street from Dwight to Lincoln streets; Maple
street from Cabot to South streets; Newton street from Appleton to Cabot streets; South street from Maple to Northampton
streets; Dwight street from Maple to High streets, and from
School street to Ivy avenue; Hampden street from High to
Maple street and Im street from Sargeant to Cabot streets.
Fairfield avenue was re-surfaced with gravel throughout its
length and Pleasant street was graveled from Lincoln street to
the Dingle.

The unfinished paving on Railroad street was completed
this vear.

The total length of re-surfacing done during the year
measures lineal feet or about miles.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
BRIDGES.

Plans for new bridges over the First and Second level canals
an Cabot street were prepared during the year. These however,
were not built as it was decided that the present bridges were
sufficiently serviceable for ordinary travel.

During the winter ice of unusual thickness formed under
the east span of the First Level Canal bridge, while the water
was clear on the west side. The thrust of the ice which broke
in the middle of the east span when the water fell in the canal,
pushed the pier so far out of position that the central iron props
of the bridge rested on the ice. Luckily this condition was discovered in time to avert an accident. Travel was stopped on the
bridge and repairs were immediately begun. Temporary horses
were built so that the bridge could be lifted sufficiently to allow
the pier to be pushed back into place. The ice was then cut
under the east span, and when the bridge was jacked up on the
horses, the pier immediately regained its upright position.

After the trusses were lowered into place, it was found
that the top chord of the south truss was slightly buckled
making the bridge unsafe in the opinion of your Engineer for
heavy street railway traffic.

This bridge was erected in and was designed for
the lighter travel of that time.

The following bridges were re-planked: Cabot street
First Level Canal bridge; Jackson street Second Level Canal
bridge, Lyman street First and Second Level Canal bridges,
and the South Hadley Falls bridge.

New stairways were built on the Dwight street foot bridge
to replace the old iron stairways which were in dangcrous
condition.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF CITY.
ot
c os », .
- &
  ef  te] ae
Location wy On aed oe  |e ZS se |G
wl “wy ce
. Zz
| |
South Hadley Falls (county bridge) ft.  ft.  
cight spans...  ... ... .
Bridge st. at Valley Mills......... ft.  ft.  
Lyman St., over Ist level canal... ft  ft.  
Iyiman st. over  nd level canal... fr.  ft.  
Dwight st. over Ist level canal (brick |
road and concrete walk). ....... fe.  ft.  
— Dwieht st. over  nd level canal

(brick road and concrete walk)...  fr.  ft.  
Appleton st. over Ist level canal... fr.  ft.  
Appleton st. over  nd level canal... ft.  ft.  
Cabot st. over Ist level canal. oo...  ft.  ft.  
Cabot st. over  nd level canal... .. ft.  ft.  )
Cabot st. over Srd level canal ;

(vranite road and concrete walk)... ft. ft.  
Sargeant st. over Pst level canal... tt. ft.  
Sargeant st. over  nd level canal...  ft.  ft.  
Jackson st. over  nd level canal... M) fr. ft.  in  
Main st. over  rd level canal... ft.  fr.  
Willimansett (county bridge.) three

spans.... oe   ft.  fr.  
Williinansett Brideve (approach)...  ft. fr.|
Foot bridge over B. M. R. R. |

trucks at Dwight st.... .. ee. ft.  

Total...

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
TABLE SHOWING THE HISTORY AND CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT OF
THE BRIDGES OF THE CITY.
, |
Name of Bridge Location Built by Year Kind Cost
Appleton St........ lover Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.| Metal Not Known
Appleton St........ {Over  nd Level Canal |fown of Holyoke. ....... 
Replaced by
Appleton St. ........ ‘eo City of Holyoke. ......... “e  
Bridge St........... oo“ Holyoke Water Power Co. Wood Not Known
Replaced by
Bridge St...........  “e City of Holyoke. .........] Metal  
Cabot St............ (Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.| “* Not Known
Cabot St............ [Over  nd Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co. Wood ‘s .
*Replaced by
Cabot St....... .... *s City of Holyoke. ... ..... Metal
Cabot St.... ....... (Over  rd Level Canal |Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood “
Replaced by Masonry
Cabot St............ City of Holyoke. ... ...) Arch  
Dwight St........... Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.| Metal Not Known
| i\Replaced by |
Dwieht Se  ...) ICity of Holyoke. .......  
Dwight St ......... !Over  nd Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co. Wood Not Known
| Replaced by
Dwight St. .... ...' Citv of Holyoke. oo... Metal  
Jackson St..........]  Holyoke Water Power Co.; Wood Not Known
Replaced by
Jackson St..........  |City of Holyoke. ...... ..)  
yman St........... /Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co. ““ Not Known
[Replaced by
Lyman St .........!'  ““ ICity of Holyoke. ....... [| Metal  
Lyman St .......... [Over  nd Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co. Wood Not Known
‘Replaced by
Ivman St...........) ITown of Holyoke...  ... Metal  
Main St............ {Over  rd Level Canal (Holyoke Water Power Co.! Wood Not Known
Replaced by
Main St............]  (Town of Elolyoke......... 
Replaced by
Main St............] Town of Holyoke...  Metal  
Replaced by
Main Se.. .. .....)  City of Holyoke. .........!)  
| Masonry
Sargeant St......... [Over Ist Level Canal! Holyoke Water Power Co.! Arches Not Known
"Replaced bv |
Sargeant St......... “* ‘Holyoke Water Power Co. Wood oo“ “s
| Metal and |
Replaced by Reinforced |
Sargeant St......... ““ City of Holyoke. oo.  ... Concrete  
Sargeant St......... {Over  nd Level Canal |Holyoke Water Power Co. Metal Not) Known
Dwieht St. Foot Over B. M. R. R. |
Bridge............ Tracks........... [City of Holyoke. ....  ...  
|
COUNTY BRIDGES
| |
Joint Board Hampden |
Holyoke and South [Over Connecticut land Hampshire County |
Had. Falls Bridge. |River.............. (Commisstoners.  ...  Wood  
(Replaced by Joint Board |
Hulvoke and Seuth Over Connecticut ‘Hampden and Hampshire
Had. Falls Bridge... |River.. ........... (County Commissioners. ... PS Metal ,. 
Holyoke and Willi- ‘Over Connecticut Hampden County |
mansett Bridge.... River. ve eae ‘Commissioners, Dee ..  
* Replaced by Old Bridge from Dwight St. Cost Included in New Bridge on Dwight St.
NOTE—Total construction account of bridges to date, ,

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
SEWERS.

The extension of the storm water sewer in Elmwood Park
was built from the end of the old storm water sewer at Bh
and Franklin streets and extended distance of one hundred
and fifty feet. Reinforced concrete was used in the construction of this extension.

The time has arrived when adequate provision must be
made for sewer outlets in the Highlands north of Fairfield
avenue.

A total length of feet of sewers has been laid during
the year as tabulated on next pave. )

|
i
or on .
Co
to te Al ao
i oe oe ae   a
 mS  or
s  os FS Ur Sos  
rs cs}  ses  MD BO  Ey nm Rime  QO —
  OR alx ae  Sw  ae c
  bal ad ese ad ao  
e Gag  af  ff
. ad ac bd PY wn u
(ak See Se oe, ae .{* a)
 zh ct :
ae au en sw sd 
Lad So Ae, ou ‘@) "bd an: ae
 oO rg oe Be  eo &: Bs Soe Py os
  FS Fo FS FS oe ZF lS
§ Bo ee
a ag  Bs a)  ae om Ds)
fw oO ao  S
we  it  as sce  sts eS Cy  ak ao
fe] [a Ss  at, 
a  ate ao  ZO pot IP nar  a
rs eS eo  je] se axes -s  oO a
ese Sos  eB RUS RS 
o  om re) Qes as en  Rs ess
o sod ot wa ests tsy
oe —— eae oa ss  es Ss 
So  as  re Bee
 ro Os vo ae  wo,
- fa se es bes POs  Seo Ca fe) ad—a  cu otal a‘  ..  c
me gS Ba  ae,See fo Bo se  awe
wh FRof OU
cof oa MG of Be! re} oOra
 sa Si ag cen ata  Bo og.
  Pie) zeoogop  nn nn EE dln ae
& o® se ae pe Se  SS eo.  a.  Ee ae eg NM
  os of wzeoe  DM  a
  a) Soee—
Z. a) eSs  
be  be, ro)
 aod  t] Fag  He aco Rs we :
eo KN  ws  Sr se 
on  ot ww Aas  c
-  ao es So FSD  Fom "Oe er
; wen. oe zz OCS  —!) (hen oe Ss eZ
—-  pe eae saa 
z ee,Se. ae  &
& om of SB ,
§ ae eS ie, PS we ie
tk Se, Bc so So fet
: oO. g.i! ag Ss  |
i oePa es
iy eo ae   oe |
- ba  ee)
Pon La "
 eo
i on gean |e
 Se we ———}—.|| 
iF  uo 
ed to  ae  oF
- eo as —
  may ————————$——————— |
o Fe re ————— *
S be ts  
ae —— mara  )
# oOo of wo  ]| bo
BS  nn —— a
i  a. |
Py ao] Qa. we ie)
  or x»  oa :
a. Ld 
fe) 
See pm
nite icc Py en
pe ———— ae
) a. |
ba !
 jo  S
  —————— em one
— SE Eee
e sc |
eS fe   bo “ei as ee
 eit  |oms
. bid  rae ————  -- ae
ee Sr ee
A SS oO wo Po  wm |
™  tw *, ca» PT \
r  —+—- re  ce eS ro
S oe  pe ts a} bY tnd oq
- Ss KR P,  ie  oe |
”  ad  &@ $e St, mm
+: ne os
mm Py fo] SS ae  -,  
.  Qa  fi ag  Ni
ey |
a -@e Hi ys  vy: |
.  fa]
( 
| |
Diaiti
igitized by e

 o
e|  a
 “o wn ,
a  e
 e) re wn as)
Nn  c
Ee wn .
 io) fo  Py,
Sin fo) $e  os  
——..|  td  Le 
vu lS] cs bx.  ov :
so So ao fo)
Ome) on Sr)  Bus :
——  Oo om ion ix
gs SS SS SS RE ee
eu a)  
c s|  ie
  om
 :
a  ‘
Seo tn :
Q w|  tn ——
i
 S
ae OR
os
a  c
a) wt VU ba ev 
LB) 
.  ry a, ao  al ia ae)  UO e
he bed re  os) a
S ry as rt pe ao]  qn 
-— lle aU  |e ap Le eo) rs or wE ,
S Oa: yi oc Ota bed pa as aa
ecd ie) A:  
. E-S. Ps Noo nwo sa ov
Oa iz Sen ps
| ——-— ——  
& fee) se)
N ||Lk es] 
— hn ce  nN
— fan} —
@ ||  —
Se
x  pad oe:
“ ‘Cc Ge -
vu Seba
e  wv
 —
—  
—  :
re :
jaa) ow Sy
  Ow. ec cs ———— ———.
e's so
wv ——— —
S) cc  ev Ex oe oot
os oe wed ce]  v
lad ZL yo Va tad v
 Feat  wl cn Ad re
ce) f} sc  e
ea)mv re xc Se  :
 fos fo)  ou .
o as) Ga  sc
—  feet LQ gp ocoe  e&  —
ry || ve as  *
 EF od own
es St. ESL Sn gt gS  Ese Ee nF ST vue  £
*.  &
anu aEs xe  See  e:n  cae ‘
eo. wn  ie) fe} fe yu, bed
ft i] SR MOT .—.  ave Ge JE v
cc and Wma “es Sec “s age  SCY ,
 SALE AS ea FEO cas os
 aac  ,f
| te Ss  Tees  
\ ZS or -) u
Wi!  Rote  Ss Pri  |
ma. wo  sc  
\ x. vw rim be
  {|  Se v
on  cD NE 
vs Ao iD 
s  ay Py  v
fae Ze an oft 
cop ct ‘sys act  Ss 
area ag wee sk a) 
ew bo oe co) ac  OU oe rot
-  oh AS  anv oe: 
"  bs  
"  uM See  ra) c
: aa SS co)
 Ts “ots as ve ot   Ss  eu of
w  oS —
E Ey  Py aay os Oo we  a
os X.  
| os  “c cc x
- —.s “oo ou  uv
” roaren  -—  cca bh —
. we OF Ze wat ben joa] 
; om? paar  ae  oehe ‘“
Ps x,  
. els ms wae Sy \
MA OY RS ine ae) zu
 AY vu vot ;
Pe  ov)  we
v  as. Me ae
é [os  et  ce —-  Ee  Ne ve bao |
- at Pag rv) o's ry i
 lao}  ha  paren Peg s
, fio  ay  no) vc* DG CB cut oS  
we  bed 
Pore  yao os  Dev fe
b omy  ray yt  wo v
;  xy  wet
  S:  ad iad os cp oe
 me  Xtc sy tH
  Hse  
ey RS RA AA BA TOm eS ss
. is ia a
Ve] RA  |
. wf i

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
| The lengths, kind and average cost of the curbing and
seewalks laid during the year are shown, in the following
taDie.

CURBING.
  Waet
Length in |Cost per lineal Total cost
feet Kind ft. delivered laid per
—— ————sd sito City lineal ft.
 -in. first class  

| granite
 -in. second class  
granite
*  |Granite circles -in.-$ 
a SIDEWALKS.
fo otal Cost
Length in Kind Square yards per square
 feet yard
  Portland cement 
concrete Iexclusive of
Excavation
  Tar concrete 
Including
ee Excavation

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
ELMWOOD ENGINE HOUSE.

A much needed improvement has been accomplished for
the firemen of the Elmwood Engine House in giving them
individual rooms to replace the dormitories on the second floor.

Metal lockers of neat appearance and convenient arrangement were provided for each room instead of built-in closets.
Each room is heated by direct radiation.

Two systems of lighting were installed. One system is
operated by the Fire Alarm Telegraph so that each room is
lighted when the fire alarm rings, and the other is used for
ordinary lighting.

SARGEANT STREET SCHOOL.

An addition was built to the Sargeant Street School by
raising the ell one story on the Bridge street side of the building, thus providing teachers’ library and rest room.

This relieves the congested teachers’ quarters in the building.

SURVEYS.

Surveys were made of the Shea Farm purchased by the

city and of land sold to William Whiting.
WATER WORKS.

The White Reservoir is located some fifteen miles from the
city at the headwaters of the Manhan River in the Hampshire
Hills in sparsely populated territory, affording an excellent
quality of water. Numerous springs from the mountains give
an abundant supply even in the dryest seasons.

A natural basin is formed by the surrounding hills. The
flooded area,  miles in length and of varying widths, covers
about acres of meadow land to an average depth of feet,
thus giving storage capacity of about million gallons.

The watershed, four miles long and one mile wide, has a
quick run-off from the steep hills on either side in times of heavy
rainfall.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  

The necessity for additional storage became apparant
during the dry season of  The reservoirs were lower than
they had been in years, all being distressingly near the danger
point. To prevent recurrence of these conditions, the Water
Board after organizing in February,  called your City
Engineer into consultation and instructed him to prod
with the preparations of plans for the new storage on the
Manhan Brook.

In order to be ready for work in the Spring of  surveys
were immediately started and after carcful study of the general
contour of land, the present site was selected for the dam. 

Gangs of men were set at work cutting brush, melting
snow and excavating test pits. These pits were excavated to
ledge rock, which was uncovered at varying depths from the
surface.

When it was discovered that granite ledge rock, sand,
gravel and good ballast were abundant in the vicinity, it was
decided that conditions were ideai foreconomical construction
of masonry dam. Plans and specifications were accordingly
prepared and the contract was awarded early in May,  .

Granite ballast weighing pounds to the cubic foot
was embedded in the concrete giving an average weight for the
masonry of to pounds per cubic foot.

The dam is feet long, feet thick at the base and
  feet thick atthe top. Itis feet high. The core wall extends
  feet into the bank on the east side.

Certain difficulties arose in locating the overflow to provide
sufficient capacity for extraordinary storms and at the same
time to protect the dam from undermining. To meet these
conditions an approach channel of ample dimensions at the dam
and gradually diminishing sectional area was provided.

A concrete bridge was erected over the spillway below ,
the dam and the roadway relocated at this point to provide
easier grades than the old location. Raising the county road
from the dam to the Wright place, which was formerly known
as Sylvan Retreat, required large amount of filling to bring

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

the grade to the required level at five feet higher than the
flowage line. The slopes of theembankment were riprapped
and fences were built on either side of the twenty foot roadway.
All swampy ground was drained and the basin cleaned of such
brush and heavy wood as was deemed necessary.

With wise forethought the present Water Board has purchased all the land in the watershed on either side of the reservoir and for two miles north of the dam, covering an area
of acres.

The public will appreciate the fact that by the purchase
of this land, owned and controlled by the city through its
Water Board, the reservoir can be kept absolutely free from
contamination.

Daniel O’Connell’s sons of Holyoke, contractors, completed
the unfinished work on the dam, the Connecticut Engineering
and Contracting Company being the original contractors.

On November the gates were closed and the
filling of the basin was begun. At this date, December  ,
 million gallons of water have already been stored.

It is probable that the reservoir will be filled by the last
of May,  It was planned by your City Engineer who had
the sole charge and control of the construction.

The completion of the White Reservoir makes an important
addition to the water system of Holyoke.

On the basis of gallons per capita consumption the
system is now adequate to supply population of between
  and without additional storage.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  

TABLE OF COST OF VARIOUS RESERVOIRS, ETC.

Reservoir Date Capacity Approximate

Built in gallons Cost
Ashley .........|   
Tannery.........  
Bray.............]  
Whiting Street....|  

(intake)... .....

Whiting Street... .|  

(storage. Lee
Fomer...........  
High Service...... 
White Reservoir...   
Se ee

RESERVOIR IMPROVEMENTS.

 The policy adopted by the present Board of Water ComMissioners of beautifying the surroundings of our reservoirs
deserves the highest commendation.

. We must emulate the example of other cities and in short
time our water works will be as attractive as any in New
England.

The new entrance and driveway with the improvements
at the Rock Cut and the cozy shelter at Ashley Ponds are in
line with this policy.

At the new entrance Gateway to Ashley Ponds posts of
cherry colored tapestry brick, laid with sunk joints, make
an agreeable contrast with the light Dummerston granite caps
and granitoid bases.

The wrought-iron fence and gates, as well as the brick
and granite caps are good examples of the work which can be
produced by Holyoke’s skilled labor. The Quincy Monumental
Works had this contract. Haarmann Co. made the wroughtIron gates and railing.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

Comfortable quarters for the Warden at Ashley Ponds
have been provided in the new Shelter as well as shed for
horse or automobile, with ample room for tools and other
necessaries.

The materials used in the construction were as follows:
Concrete floors and foundations, wood, stucco on wire lath
outside with matched sheathing inside was used for the walls.

A red Spanish tile roof with copper gutters and conductors were used. M. J. Walsh Sons were the contractors
for this work. ’

A cobblestone arch with light granite trimmings was
built at the entrance to Whiting Street Reservoir. W. W.
Salter erected this arch.

SMITHS’ FERRY EXTENSION. |

A ten-inch main was laid along the State Highway from
the Castle to Smiths’ Ferry with six-inch extension from the
Ferry to the Holyoke Country Clubentrance. An eight-inch
branch crosses the tracks at Smiths’ Ferry station to provide
for future development of the territory between the railroad
and the Connecticut River, whether the land be used for residential or manufacturing purposes. :

RECOMMENDATIONS.

The following recommendations are submitted for the
consideration of the Water Commissioners.

. Acrating fountains should be installed at Ashley and
High Service reservoirs to eliminate the odor and taste in the
water during the Spring and Fall seasons.

Permanent masonry braces should be installed in the
Rock Cut canal to replace the temporary iron and wooden
braces which were placed between the walls of this canal in
  and to prevent them from collapsing.

During the year the following interesting table was prepared giving information on our water supply.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
HOLYOKE WATER SUPPLY DATA.

Name of Flowage Area Watershed Area Available Capacity Height

Reservoir sq. miles acres sq. miles acres in gallons of overflow
Ashley. ... .... ..  
High Service... ....  
Whiting Street...  
White.............  

e es e

Approximate increase in ponds from rainfall in million gallons.

-  
NOTE—Less than rainfall will not materially affect the ponds during
the months of July and August.

For the months of December, January, February and March the
increase in the ponds will depend on the total precipitation preceding a
thaw during these months. |
Name Jan. Feb. Mar. “Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec .

a  Fe  ae

Ashley..........| | |is-   

 

High  

  Sy  Bj  iet jet }

Service 

Whiting 

   |  

Street 

White  GON"  &

     

Reservoir Is"”  

| cc wor [  

Average Rainfall. Springfield Armory Records for Sixty-four Years, by

Months to  .

TO esee  pp
Yearly |
Average Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. Mey June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.

——  |) —- SOOe ae
    


