REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
extractor, one secondary condenser and one ammonia
scrubber.
| new coal shed of tons capacity has been constructed of steel and brick.

The new plant is now undergoing tests which are conducted by the Isbell-Porter Company, the designers and
builders of the new works. |

On the new plant there has been expended to date  and balanee of  is due the Isbell-Porter
Company when the plant is accepted, making total cost
of .

In order to dispose of the by-products of the gas works
at remunerative prices, thereby reducing the net cost of
making gas, the works should be equipped with an ammonia
concentrator and coke conveyor, storage and sorting plant.
The coke sorting plant and erusher and the ammonia concentrator should be built during the coming year,

THE ELECTRIC STATION.

About miles of wire and poles have been added
to the overhead distribution system, which ineludes the line
run to Smiths Ferry; transformers and new meters
were set. There are now In service electric meters.

The current generated amounted to kilowatts
and the current sent out amounted to kilowatts,
an increase of nearly per cent over the send-out of  .

Storage room for supplies and tools has been provided
by raising the wheel house building two stories. This addition with an elevator cost .

Underground conduits have been laid in that section of
the city bounded northerly by Hampden street, westerly by
Maple street, southerly by Cabot street and easterly by the
first level canal and also in Dwight street from said canal
to Main street. }

In this section ornamental luminous street lamps

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
| were erected. There has been expended in the underground
work to date, .

A new generator with condenser and switch board must
be installed at the station and it  advisable to have the
same ready for operation about the first of next June. This
will require changes or alterations and possibly an addition
to the station. It is estimated that the cost of the machinery, apparatus and building will be about and
I would suggest bond issue to cover the amount.

Tables giving the statistics of the department and financial operations of the same follow.

The following tables show the growth of the department since the city acquired the lighting plants:

 
Gas sent out, cubic feet..........  
Gas meters set .............  
Miles of main pipe laid...........  
Electricity sent out, kilowatts (estimated for  )...........  
Maximum power used H. P.......  
Number of customers............  
Number of electric meters set....  
Number of transformers set......  
Miles of wire in streets...........  
Poles in streets..................  
Capacity of station, H. P.........  
Are street lights................  
Incandescent street lights........  
Price of are street lights.........  
Net price of gas per eubic ft.  
Net price of electricity per kilowatt
(estimated ave. for  ).....  
Dec.  Nov. 
Cost of plants...................  
Book value of plants............  

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  Ir
Amount added to plants from loans
In eleven yearS..............  
Amount added to plants from earnings in eleven years.........  
Bonds paid out of earnings.......  
The following tables present data from the records of
the gas works: .
Gas distributed, eubic feet..................  
Coal carbonized, tons...............    
Coal oil used, gallons.......................  
Coke made, bushels....................  
Coke used in producers, pounds..............  
(Coke used in water gas generators, pounds....  
Coke pounds used in boilers.................  
Tar made, gallons.........  ... cc      
Tar sold, gallons..................      
Tar given to city for highways, gallons.......  
GAS MAINS.
Laid in Total Laid
Lo amech ...    feet
TWA inch .......     feet
  inch ...... ees feet
  inch ...... eeee   feet feet
  Inch ......   ee   feet
  inch ...    feet
  aimeh ....................... feet feet
  inch ......        feet feet
  meh ......      ee ees feet
  inch ....... cc       feet
  meh...    feet
  osoamech ....       feet
  feet feet
Making total of miles laid.

  REPORT OF GAS AND; ELEGTRIC, DEPARTMENT
GAS.SERVICES RUN. z
VIA imeh  ...  eane  
Ly imch  ...      nas  
QZ inch .. oie  nett ees 

GAS METERS SET DECEMBER .
| light meters........ ...       fS      nett een   eens  Cee ene   ees ‘S cent     teens ees  SS Occ cence    ce eunceuns  Cae cnet nent teen eens  SS       ‘‘   enc  een  neenees ‘S   t   teen     )
        eens     nent eenes ‘S       ete  D
 *‘  cect   tene  ns  
Regular meters set December ........... ..  
Prepay meters set December ..............  

Gain in meters set or per cent.

PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
Superintendent  ... cc  ee  enes  
LO) Co)  
Engineer .......  ...     cenen tees  
Meter and complaint men...............       
Foremen at works.............  ...   ce cence s  
Foreman on street work............   es  
Men cleaning fires, ete.. generators............... ..  

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT --  .
Water gas makers ...........  wee wees  
Water gas helpers .......  ...    tenes  
Firemen .......    ec       we ees  
Street men ...........           neces  
Coal wheelers .......       .

Net price of gas  per thousand cubic feet.

The following tables present data from the records of
the electric station:
Current generated, kilowatts.................  
Current sent out, kilowatts.................-..  
Total number of customers...................  
Power customers .........cce  seers     
Miles of Wire.........          
Number of poles...........-...    ences  
Transformers  USC..........      
) Meters set .......      cc    eas  
Commercial are lamps.................- 
Street arc lampS........... .ce   ce    
Street incandescent lamps, watt Tungsten.  
Street incandescent lamps, watt Tungsten.  
Street incandescent lamps, watt Tungsten.  
Street incandescent lamps, watt Tungsten.  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P.............  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P.............  
Steam coal used, tons...............    
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.

Superintendent ........  ...        ee   C)  
Foremen ......... cc     ete     tence  
EmgimeerS ......    cette eerste  D
Oilers  ...            eens  

  REPORT OF GAS- AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Firemen ......  ...     cc   cence teen tesa   
Switchboard men .............    ec t    
Trimmers .....    tect   T
Line and repair men...............ecc ces§ LT
LaborerS .........    teen   eens   
Machinists ............c cc  re  ce   
Electrician  ...  ...         
Net price of electricity for lighting cents per kilowatt.
WORKING ACCOUNT NOVEMBER .
Sales.
. Gas and electricity............. 
————— 
Expense.
Coal ...  ...   ee )  . 
Supphes ...........        
Repairs ......  ...  
Water power rental............  
Pay roll ........  ...  ee    
Office expense .................  
Miscellaneous ..................  
Insurance ........      
————.  
Bad debts ..........   
Interest ....  ... cc wees  
Depreciation .............  
——-———  
.  
Profit ......      

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.  
GAS WORKING ACCOUNT, NOVEMBER .
Sales.
Gas ..      s 
Tar ..       
: —————— 
Expense.
Coal ......        ee ees .
Oil Lo     
Supplies .........      
Repairs .........         
Water power rental............  
Pay roll ..........   cence  
Office expense ..........-...  
Insurance ........     renee  
Miscellaneous ...........  
————  
' Bad debts ...........-.  ees  
Interest ......         
Depreciation ...........    
—————  
|  
Profit .....  ...     
ELECTRIC WORKING ACCOUNT, NOVEMBER .
Sales.
Electricity ....................  
Expense.
Coal .....        
Oil and waste................-.  
Supplies ............    
) Repairs ...........cc cc   cease  
Water power rental.............  
Pay roll ..........        

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Office expense .................  
Insurance ...............     
Miscellaneous ..................  
————  
, Interest  ...  ...  
Depreciation ............. 
Bad debts .............  aes  
———--—  
$ 
Profit ......  ...ee   
BALANCE SHEET, NOVEMBER .
Assets.
Depreciation cash ............ 
Accts. receivable—Gas ........  
Accts. receivable—Electric ....  
Acets. receivable—Sundries ...  
Supplies .............  
Automobiles, horses and wagons  
Office furniture and supplies...  
Prepaid insurance ............  
——-- 
Gas real estate................ 
Gas mach’y and mfg. apphances  
Gas mains ................-..  
Gas meters and connections....  
Total gas plant............... 
Electric real estate............ 
Electric plant ................  
Electric water plant ..........  
Electric steam plant...........  
Eleetrie pole lines ............  
Eleetrie underground lines.....  

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
Electrie are lamps ............  
Electric transformers .........  
Electric meters ...............  
Total electric plant.............  
' Total assets .............. 
| Liabilities.
Cash overdrawn ............. 
City of Holyoke loan account..  
Prepaid gas consumers ........  
Bonds outstanding ...........  
Profit and loss or surplus......  
Total liabilities and surplus 
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK, Manager.
Examined and approved Jan. |
WALTER W. EATON CO.,
Certified Public Accountants.

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND
LIABILITIES.

ASSETS Increase Decrease
Cash..........  
Depreciation cash....  
Accts. rec.—Gas......  
Accts. rec.—Electric.  . 
Accts. rec.—Sundries.  
Inventories..........  . 

Plant Accounts—
Gas real estate.......  . 
Gas machinery.......  . 
Gas mains..........  
Gas meters and conn..  . 
Electric real estate...  . 
Electric plant........   
Electric water plant.   
Electric steam plant.   
Electric pole lines....  . 
Electric und’g’d lines.  
Electric arc lamps....   
Electric transformers  . 
Electric meters......  . 
$    
Increase in assetS.........   ttwee   
*Decrease represents excess of depreciation over additions.
LIABILITIES
Cash overdrawn.....  
Loan account........   
Prepaid gas consumers.  . 
Bonds...........e   
$    
Decrease in liabilities.  ...    we tt we etteee tees 
Increase in assetS........ ee etetee  
Decrease in liabilities. .....  ...  ...  ee    
Net profit for year ending Nov. ........... 

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY. OF
HOLYOKE.

Lorenzo A. Williston, Chairman, Term expires May,  
William I. Morse, Term expires May,  
Thomas A. Dillon, Term expires May,  
Gustave A. Geissler, Term expires May,  
Joseph Laliberte, Term expires May,  

Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.

Thomas A. Bray, Superintendent.

REPORT OF THE
Board of Park Commissioners
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

Gentlemen: We hereby present the annual report of
the Board of Park Commissioners for the year  with
a statement of the receipts and expenditures for the said
year.

The season has been unusually busy, especially in the
line of improvements, the new concrete walks and driveway

at Prospect park, the walks and curb at Elmwood park and
the cement curbing around Fairfield Avenue park being
the most important. ;

The Board has expended the amount of of

which  was for maintenance and  for
. improvements. .

We give herewith an account of the work on the several

parks with recommendations for the coming year.
HAMPDEN PARK.

The general maintenance work has been carried on at
this park in the usual satisfactory manner. The park being
in completed condition, very little can be done in the line
of improvement. new drinking fountain would be of advantage at this park.

PROSPECT PARK.

The largest amount of improvement work accomplished
this year has been done here. Approximately yards
of concrete walks and yards of concrete driveway has
been constructed. On account of these improvements the
whole park had to be re-graded, some sections requiring a
fill of from one-half to two feet. This work required about

» REPORT- OF PARK COMMISSIONERS loads of loam. Jadies’ and children’s shelter and
band stand is also being built at the west end of the park
and the Board hopes to have these completed early the next
year, also new lights placed on the wall and throughout the
park. scenic fountain is contemplated at the Chestnut
street entrance and drinking fountains must also be installed. The old tar sidewalk bordering the park on Prospect street is in dangerous condition and should be replaced by the city with new concrete walk to conform with
the park walks. new curbing on the west end of the park
would also add much to the park. These improvements fill
a long-felt want in this loeality and when completed will
tend to make this the most attractive of the city parks.

ELMWOOD PARK.

Next to Prospect park this has been treated to  mprovements on large seale. The old tar walks have been taken
out and replaced with new concrete walks, about yards
being laid. The cement curbing on Maple street has been.
extended to Ross avenue. The Bh street side of this
park has not received the attention it should; this  direetly
In the rear of the new gymnasium building and with the
completion of this building improvements should be made
here. large playfield  intended at this point and the
present ball diamond should be placed in condition. A
skating rink is also provided here in the winter months
and is very largely patronized. This park is becoming more
used every year owing to the building up of this section
and we believe the time has come for the extension of the
improvements which have been contemplated for some time
past. Especially the new bridge over the dingle should be
built and the culvert extended to Pine street and ladies’
and children’s shelter provided. These would add greatly
to the service and beauty of the park and we hope sufficient
funds will be available the coming year for the commencement of the above improvements.

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
RIVERSIDE PARK.

This park is becoming more popular every year on account of the ball fields and the wading pool. The improvement work has been greatly extended on this park but has
not been completed. shelter house should be provided
for the women and children here another year and another
ball diamond laid out. The lower end of the park is in poor
condition and should receive attention soon. The Board is
also of the opinion that the shrubs bordering on Main street
should be moved, as an element of danger exists on account
of their obstruction of the view of the street from the park.
The storage sheds which were damaged in the spring were
entirely renovated and several settees placed here. The
wading pool was greatly appreciated by the children, about
  having been in attendance.

HAMILTON AND GERMANIA PARKS.

Little but the usual maintenance work has been done
at these parks. Settees have been added and flower beds
planted. The tree belt around Hamilton park has been
cobbled and the belt at Germania park should be treated in
the same manner as soon as curbing is placed around it.

, CANONCHET PARK.

The usual maintenance work is all that has been done
here. The park is already in completed condition and
used quite largely by the people of this section.

JONES PARK.

Nothing has been accomplished here this year as the
improvements on the older and more used parks were as
much as the Board could do with their improvement appropriation. One of the prineipal drawbacks to the park is
the lack of proper and convenient entrance, the present one
from Cleveland street not being generally known. An en.

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
trance from Pleasant street would be more direct and the
Board would like to obtain the necessary land at this point
for such entrance.

. The contemplated extension of the street railway at
this point should tend to bring more people along this park
and show up the possibilities of beautiful park at this
place.

MINOR PARKS. |

Laurel park has been kept in good condition the past
year. Shrubs have been added.

A three ane one-half. foot iron fence has been placed
around Coughlin park. This was found necessary for the
protection of the grass and flower bed in this triangle.

Sullivan square and Ranger triangle have been kept up
In good condition this year.

IN CONCLUSION

We wish to call your attention again to the reeommehdation noted herein, especially the improvements for Elm- 
wood park, and make the following requests for the coming
year.

For maintenance ................+s 
For Elmwood park bridge and approaches....  
For Prospect park improvement..............  
For Riverside park improvement..............  
For Jones park improvement.................  

We add hereto detailed statement of the receipts and

expenditures of the department.
Respectfully submitted,
LORENZO A. WILLISTON,
: WILLIAM I. MORSE,
GUSTAVE A: GEISSLER,
JOSEPH LALIBERTE,
THOMAS A. DILLON,
Board of Park Commissioners.

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation for  ...................... 
Appropriation by transfer....................  
Receipts  ...           teen    
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Maintenance Improvement
Hampden park, 
Prospect park, 
Canonchet park,  
Elinwood park  
Hamilton park,  
Germania park,  
Riverside park,  
Fairfield Ave. Park,  
Laurel park,  
Sullivan Ranger park,  
Coughlin park,  
Jones park,  
Gen. exp. and salaries,  
$ 
Balanee on hand..............    
LAND ACCOUNT.
Balanee on hand December .......... 
Expenditures  ...          
Balanee on hand................. 

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
MONTHLY EXPENDITURES.
Labor and Salaries Supplies  Total
December,  
January, 
February,  
March,  
April,  
May,  
June,  . 
July,  
August,  . 
September,  . 
October,  . 
November,  
$ 
LABOR AND SALARY PAY ROLL BY MONTHS.
Labor Salaries Total
December,  
January,  
February,  
March,  
April, 
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September, —.  . 
October,  
November,  
$ 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS |
OFFICE AND MISCELLANEOUS ACCOUNTS.
Telephene oo...    |
Carlares oo... ce   
Team hire oo...  ...   
D. J. Kennedy, claim. .............  
Flowers  ... 
Resolutions ..........   
Caps and buttons.................  
Insuranee oo...    
Advertismg  ...   
Photographs ..............  
Hack ...  ... cc     
SumMNdrles  .    
| Clerk's salary ............... 
— Superintendent's salary, ..........  
———— 
ELMWOOD PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Orien Lahberte, shelter........... 
Lyman Winkler, eurbing........  
Frank Moss, teams...............  
Advertising .......  ...   
J. Russell, sundries...............  
Fred T. Bray, team...............  
Orien Laliberte, walks............  
Lyman Winkler, eurbing........  
Labor  ... cc  ees  
————— 
PROSPECT PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Fred T. Bray, teams.............. 
Frank Moss, teams...............  
Advertising, proposals ...........  
E. H. Lynds, lumber.........,.... |
Wm. H. Morehouse, cartage, ashes.  
George L. Goodyear, teams........  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
L. C. Hartzell, signs.............. ;
Thomas Bray, teams..............  
Sheldon’s Transfer, ashes.........  
Holyoke Supply Co., pipe and fit... ;
Hol. Valve Ilyd. Co., fittings. ....  
C. IL Ash, repairs............. --  
P. J. Kennedy, Jr., walks and drive ;
Labor wo... c    
——————- 
RIVERSIDE PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Fred T. Bray, teams.............. 
Frank Moss, teams............. ..  
Thomas Bray, teams..............  
Geo. L. Goodyear, teams..........  
M. J. Laporte, teams..............  
George Hofmeyer, teams..........  
Fred T. Bray, teams..............  
Labor .......  ...      |
————— 
FAIRFIELD AVENUE PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Advertising, proposals ............ 
Frank Moss, teams...............  
N. E. Howes, supplhies.............  
Ellsworth Howes, services.......  
Lyman Winkler, curbing........  
Lyman Winkler, curbing........  
Labor ........       
—————— 
HAMILTON PARK IMPROVEMENT.
Fred T. Bray, teams.............. 
Labor .......      
—- 

£
  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
COUGHLIN PARK IMPROVEMENT.
G. Haarmann Co., iron fence..... 
—— 
LAUREL PARK IMPROVEMENT.
J. W. Adams, shrubs.............. 
———— 
ACCOUNTS AND EXPENDITURES OF EACH OF THE |
SEVERAL PARKS.
HAMPDEN PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Bills. .
Maintenance,  
$  
PROSPECT PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Improvement, |
Bills.
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
$  
CANONCHET PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Bills. \
Maintenance,  
|  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
ELMWOOD PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Improvement,  
Bills.
Maintenance,  
Improvement,   
: HAMILTON PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Improvement,  
Bills.
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
$  
GERMANIA PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Bills. ,
Maintenance,  
$  
RIVERSIDE PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Improvement, .
Bills. |
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
$  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS |
FAIRFIELD AVENUE PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
| Improvement,  
Bills. ,
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
: LAUREL PARK.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
Bills.
Maintenance,  
Improvement,  
$  
| SULLIVAN AND RANGER SQUARES.
Pay Roll.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 
COUGHLIN PARK.

Bills. |
Improvement,  Net expenditures, 
JONES PARK.

Bills.
Maintenance,  Net expenditures, 

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
TO WHOM AND FOR WHAT MONEY WAS PAID UUT
DURING THE YEAR  .
DECEMBER,  .

N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 

Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  

Holyoke Water Works, Supplies,  
———— 

JANUARY.

E. H. Friedrich, Stove, 

G. E. Russell Co., Hardware,  

N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones,  
——— 

FEBRUARY,

N. BE. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones,  |

G. E. Russell Co., Hardware,  

Union Coal and Wood Co.,Coal,  

Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  

John H. Delaney, Paint,  

F. H. Revitt, Labor, .

Orien Laliberte, Shelter,  

Orien Laliberte, Shelter,  
————— 

MARCH.

N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 

Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
————— 

. APRIL.

N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 

Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  

C. W. Johnson, Insurance,  

G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
J. Russell Co., Supplies,  
Chase Cooledge, Oil,  
E. F. Dreicorn, Paint,  
August Wildner, Oil,  
M. J. Laporte, Team,  
Frank Moss, Teams,  Lyman Winkler, Curb,  
D. J. Hartnett, Services,  
J. W. Adams Co., Shrubs,  
Chas. G. Best, Cartage,  
Everett H. Lynds, Lumber,  
Fitzgerald Book Art Co.Time bks., Ret)
Everett H. Lynds, Lumber,  
Orien Laliberte, Repairs,  
—— 
MAY.
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 
Judd Parsons, Insurance,  
Telegram Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Transeript Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Democrat Pub. Co., Advertising,  
La Justice Pub. Co., Advertising,  
W. H. Abbott, Fertilizer,  
Gallivan Bros., Flowers,  
Fred T. Bray, Teams,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold, Flowers,  
Frank Moss, Teams,  
Thomas Bray, Teams,  
G. E. Russell, Supplies,  
M. J. Laporte, Ine., Teams,  
| Geo. L. Goodyear, Teams,  
——— 

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
JUNE.

N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 
. Telegram Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Transcript Pub. Co., Advertising,  
| Democrat Pub. Co., Advertising,  

Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
G. J. Prew Co., Caps, etc.,  
Steel Basket Co., Baskets,  
H. A. Richards, Sand,  
Wm. A. Matthes, Table, ete.,  
Lynch Bros. Brick Co., Clay,  
Holyoke Supply Co., Still cocks, ete.,  
Holyoke Water Dept., Services,  
T. J. Gibson Co., Rep. walks,  
E. F. Dreicorn, Painting,  
John T. Hunter. Sons,  
Osgood Prentice El. Co., Wiring,  
Ralph G. Waite, Photos,  
F. H. Revitt, Plumbing,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Cartage,  
G. Haarman Co., Settees,  
E. F. Dreicorn, Painting,  
G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  
M. J. Laporte, Inc., Team,  
Collins Murray, Rug,  
Holyoke Supply Co., Piping,  
Geo. W. Rackliffe, Flowers,  
G. Haarman Co., Stakes, ete.,  
Geo. W. Rackliffe, Flowers,  
EK. H. Lynds, Lumber,  
QO. Laliberte, Repairs,  
QO. Laliberte, Repairs,  
QO. Laliberte, Repairs,  
Dillon Bros., Hack,  
Geo. H. Sinclair, Flowers,  
Geo. H. Sinclair, Flowers,  
Holyoke Police Dept., Policing,  

—— 

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
JULY.
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 
Otto Lauckner, Insurance,  
Free Press Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Telegram Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Transcript Pub. Co.,. Advertising,  
Holyoke Water Dept., Wat. box, :
Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
Sullivan Carmody, Plumbing,  
J. Russell Co., Tar paper,  
Gallivan Bros., Seed,  
. Chas. G. Best, Cartage,  
Frank Moss, Teams,  
Holyoke Supply Co., Solder,  
G. E. Russell Co., Supplies,  
M. J. Laporte, Team,  
E. H. Lynds, Lumber,  
Fitzgerald Bk. Art Co., Time bk., Bt)
. N. E. Howes, Supplies,  
Police Dept., Police,  
Fred T. Bray, Teams,  
D. J. Hartnett, Services,  
———  
AUGUST.
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 
Democrat Pub. Co., Advertising,  
La Justice Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
M. J. Doyle Ptg. Co., Resolutions,  
M. J. Laporte, Inc., Team,  
G. E. Russell Co., Asphaltum,  
E. H. Lynds, Lumber,  
E. L. Dean Mach. Co., Rep., 
Win. H. Morehouse, Teains,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONRRS  
KE. H. Fredericks, Pump,  
G. L. Goodyear, Teams,  
Geo. Hofmeyer, Teams,  
Thomas A. Bray, Expenses,  
C. H. Ash, Rep., 
Chas. G. Best, Cartage,  
Elisworth Howes, Service,  
Gas and El. Dept., Globe,  
L. C. Hartzell, Signs,  
Hol. Braz M. Works,  Rep., Bd
C. F. Sullivan Co., Bubblers and rep.,  
Lyman Winkler, Curb, 
Orien Laliberte, Walks,  
$ 
| SEPTEMBER. .
G. L. Goodyear, Teams,  
Frank Moss, Teams,  
Frank Moss, Teams,  
Thomas Bray, Teams, 
Wm. H. Morehouse, Ashes, ete.,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
Holyoke Supply Co., Piping, G. Haarman Co., Iron fence,  
; P. J. Kennedy, Jr., Walks,  
Lyman Winkler, Curb,  
Lyman Winkler, Curb,  
N. E. Howes, Supplies,  
Free Press Pub. Co., Advertising,  
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones,  
Daniel Kennedy, Claim,  
D. J. Hartnett, Services,  
E. L. Dean Mach. Co., Paint,  
Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
Nolan, Florist, Flowers,  

  REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
M. J. Laporte, Ine., Team,  
G. E. Russell Co., Hardware,  
——— 
OCTOBER.
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 
; Holyoke Water Power Co.Cobbles,  
Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
Holyoke Water Dept., Wat. box,  
M. J. Laporte, Team,  
Auto Welding Co., Welding,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Cartage, 
J. Russell Co., Supplies, 
Chas. A. Green, Signs,  
B. M. R. R. Co., Lease,  
C. H. Ash, Repairs,  
Wm. H. Morehouse Co., Teams,  
Transcript Pub. Co., Advertising,  
Holyoke Supply Co., Pipe and fitt.,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Teams,  
George Hofmeyer, Team,  
Democrat Pub. Co., Advertising,  
P. J. Kennedy, Jr., Walks and drive,  
F. H. Bray, Teams,  
G. L. Goodyear, Teams,  
———— 
NOVEMBER.
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co., Telephones, 
G. E. Russell Co., Sundries, |
Holyoke Street Ry. Co., Tickets,  
M. J. Laporte, Team,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Cartage,  
Sheldon’s Transfer, Ashes,  
Holyoke Supply Co., Pipe and fitt.,  
Telegram Pub. Co., Advertising,  

REPORT OF PARK COMMISSIONERS  
Osgood Prentice El. Co., Labor,  
C. H. Ash, Rep.,  
Ralph G. Waite, Photos,  
Fitzgerald Bk. Art Co., Tags, ete.,  
Carl F. Geissler, Labor and mat.,  
Carl F. Geissler, Storage,  
D. J. Hartnett, Services, -+  
Fred T. Bray, Teams,  
Hol. Valve Hyd. Co., Piping,  

————. 

P. J. Kennedy, Jr. Walks 

; REPORT OF THE
e e
Playground Commissioners
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

Gentlemen: In submitting report of the Playground
Commission for the season of  eannot do better than
to refer to the very carefully compiled report of our supervisor, Mr. P. H. Kelly, which hand you herewith.

The Commission was most fortunate In securing fiveyear lease of strip of ground lying west of Elmwood park
and north of the Carlton Street School building. This tract,
although not as large as we would like to have it, has been
in active use for the past season and will be even more valuable as time goes on. Lying as it does right in the elbow of
Elinwood park property and readily reached from almost
any section, it ought to become in time most valuable play
center. The property was not secured early enough to put
it in the best condition for use during the past season, but
if taken hand sufficiently early it ean be made very satisfactory ground for the coming vear. It is to be hoped
that some arrangement can be made by which little more
space can be secured, as it Is now rather too small for a
satisfactory ball field.

During the past year the Commission has chosen the
supervisor to serve during the twelve months instead of in
the summer months as formerly. We feel that the city is to
be congratulated upon being able to get such an intelligent,
faithful and enthusiastie supervisor as we have found in Mr.
P. HT. Kelly.

We would recommend that, if possible, supervised play
should be provided during the midsummer vacation in the
morning as Well as in the afternoon. This will involve some

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
increased expense, but, in our judgment, it will be well
worth the outlay.

Better play facilities are very urgently needed in Ward
Two. The Commissioners have already purchased, with a
portion of the appropriation of  which was granted
by the Board of Aldermen in December last, traet of land
almost adjoining the Morgan School. There are several
other small pieces of property in that vicinity, which it is
hoped can be aequired, in which case this ward will be well
equipped for the sports and diversions which are inost. valuable for the vounger ehildren. The excessive cost seems to
make it out of the question to hope for sufficient space for a
ball field in that part of the eity at this time.

In view of the increasing cost of land year by vear, it is
obviously advisable that early steps be taken to aequire a
sufficiently large tract, suitably located and adapted to the
purposes of furnishing general athletie field which can be
used by our entire city. The needs of such ground will be
acute as soon as the city takes over the present Maple street
playground for school purposes as it is feared may have to
be done.

It would seem that the Playground Commission should
logically have the direction and oversight of all active recreation in the city whether on the playgrounds or public parks
instead of limiting their work to the playgrounds alone.
This change would simplify matters so far as the public is ,
concerned and perhaps could be arranged if it was regarded
with favor by the Park Commissioners.

A complete report of the receipts an ddisbursements on
the playground account  appended.

Respectfully submitted,
F. B. TOWNE,
Chairman Playground Commission.

Report of Supervisor of Playgrounds
To the Honorable Board of Playground Commissioners:

I have the honor to submit to you my second report as
Supervisor of the Holyoke Playgrounds for the season of
 .

PROGRESS.

The playground season of has shown marked advaneement In several important respects, chiefly among them
being the imereased attendance over former years and the
opening of two new play eenters, the Morgan School and
Elmwood playgrounds, with well qualified direetors and
assistants at each playground. Our play problems have
been handled very capable manner.

DEPARTMENTS.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS.

The earnest and enthusiastic efforts of the directors and
their assistants with the girls in the departments of physical
education showed marked advancement in getting the older
girls interested in play and recreation. Great interest was
shown in modified game of baseball when onee they had
learned the rudiments, and intense interest taken in the field
events held on Mothers’ day. Folk dancing was more popuJar than ever; many new and interesting dances were
learned, and proved to be rare means for helping to eliminate racial feeling among the girls. They were drawn into
a closer touch with other girls and as the dancing went on
from day to day they began to have feeling of kinship
for the others—American kinship, that means social] harmony and mutual good will for the future.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
RAFFIA AND BASKETRY.

The basketry departinent grows more popular each year,
more children being enrolled in the classes than during the
preceding year. With the corresponding inerease of interest greater amount of material was used. more instructive occupation cannot be found for children. It is not only
fascinating in itself but develops patience, Judgment, dexterity and skil and embodies the satisfaction of making a
beautiful and useful article and arouses the inventive fac- |
ulties in the ehild. The articles made were of practical
value to the child and for the decoration of the home.

SEWING. |

Sewing was taught to the girls by Mrs. M. F. Kosterbader, who deserves great credit for the work accomplished
in this department. Each ground was visited one day a
week, materials were generously supphed by the commission at very small cost per child. The materials seleeted
were those of pleasing eolor for the eye, good texture
making the work easy to handle. At the closing festival
the sewing exhibit received only words of praise and ecommendation. To sew was not the only object. The great aim
was to train the hands towards the right and best way of
doing work and prepare the girls for the actual work of life.

STORY TELLING.

The story telling department is least restricted and the
possibilities in story telling for guiding the child’s mind to
the best of everything in the world are limitless. The directors and assistants are to be commended for the care and
intelligence manifested in telling their stories. At the opena
Ing of the season comprehensive program was prepared
and arrangement made at the publie library for books to
be set aside for the use of the playground workers and a
splendid list of stories were selected.

  RERORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR BOYS.

The program of this department was under the charge of
the supervisor with man assistant on each ground. The
work among the boys went by leaps and bounds bevond
that of the year before. The baseball schedule was systematically arranged. schedule of one hundred and twenty
games were played during the months of July and August
by two leagues. This great American game of base ball

- was the means under the supervision of men instructors of
bringing the bovs to mutual understanding and appreciation of each other, with the spirit of ‘‘square deal’’ and
a ‘‘get together’’ in the playground games and sports. The
field and track events were handled by the instructors
themselves on each playground with goodly measure of
success but not with the system we shall expect to put in
force next season.

. SLOYD WORK.

This department was under the direction of Miss Helen
C. Moriarty who visited each playground one day week.
The Sloyvd work grows more popular each year, more boys
were enrolled in the classes than during the preceding year
and many new models were inade. Reed basketry was ex tended on larger seale. The boys showed passion for
this line of construction play. This speaks volumes for the
enthusiasm of the imstruetor, and will have powerful
effect upon the future usefulness of the boys when they become men. :

ATTENDANCE.

This deem the most gratifying part of my report as the
attendance on the playground is voluntary and it serves
consequently as an excellent index to the feeling of the
children in regards to the playgrounds. 

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
ATTENDANCE FOR EIGHT WEEKS.
West Street ...  ...      ee   
Chestnut Street ......  ... cc eeee     ees  
Hampden Street .........           s  
Maple Street ...........   eete teens  
Main Street .........   ee    ee      
Elmwood ...  eetee    es 
Morgan School ...........           
Grand total attendance ...........      eens  total attendance ............  ...        )  
Increase over last year...........       ees  
The attendance was taken twice daily at and P. M.
The total numbers being divided by two to find the attendance for each day. Baths at the Whiting School were under
the direct charge of Mrs. BK. B. Clifford and Miss Helen Donahue, who deserve great credit for the manner in which
they administered their duties.
Number of baths given girls............  
Number of baths given girls.:..........  
Total,  
SPECIAL EVENTS. 
The special events which occured during the past season
- are all worthy of record. During the week of August  th
to the  th ‘‘Mothers’ Day’’ was held on each playground. ,
These mothers’ day meetings were in the broadest sense
family affairs where the local community interest was seen ,
at its best. The children were the hosts and the hostesses,
and the relatives, but especially the mothers, the guests. The
teachers were the grand marshal and arranged such programs that every ‘‘mother’s darling’’ could be seen in some
event or other. Prizes were given the winners, which consisted of special button bearing the inscription ‘‘ Mothers’
Day’’ with ribbons attached.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
CLOSING FESTIVAL.

The closing exercises held on the Maple street playground
August  th was fitting final to our season of summer activities and was witnessed by over three thousand people.
The display of articles made by the children on the different
playgrounds was on exhibition under two tents at the north
end of the field. The games and dances shown the visitors
were some of our everyday program on our playgrounds.
The benefit to the city from festival of the nature are
twofold. First to the children’ themselves. The event
meant everything in the way of eager and enthustastie expectation, Joyous and willing participation and pleasant lastIng memories. It also gave to them sense of what big
nudertaking they were part of. It was big lesson in co| operation. It stimulated their sense of loyalty and  patriotism to their city. Second to the spectators the games
were great object lesson and many realized as never
before the importance of the child in the life of the ecomminty. The beautiful sight of hundreds of children in
their best, with the girls in white and all with their gavly
colored sashes and costumes, and their happy eager faces,
came as bit of heaven let down in their midst,and made
many heart hght,’ bringing back fond memories of their
| own childhood days. Yes, surely the festival was worth
while.
PROGRAM.
, Band concert to by the city band.
 Opening march. At finish all sing the ‘‘Star Spangled
banner.
 Folk Dances.
a. May Pole Danee.
b. Dance Little Partner.
. Scotch Lassie Dance. |
d. Grandmother’s Dance.
e. The Weaver's Dance.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
. f, Meeting and Greeting.
g. Chinese Dance.—Boys.
h. .The Merry-go-round. ;
 Races.
a. Boys’ yards dash—Grade  .
b. Boys’ yards dash—Grade  .
e. Girls’ yards dash—Grade  .
d. Girls’ yards dash—Grade  |
 Village Play Games.
a. Bluebird.
b. Oats, Peas, Beans and BawWey grows.
e. Did You Ever See Lassie ?
d. Go Round the Farmer in the Shoo-di-do.
 Closing—All sing ‘‘America.”’
RECOMMENDATIONS.

Providing the schoo authorities would agree, the taking

over of the grammar school base ball league.
CHAIR CANING.

There should be more ample provision made for chair
eaning by the boys. This is form of creative play which
brings the home very close to the playgrounds and has the
decided approval of the parents.

SEWING.

The sewing should be extended and period given each
day. There is an actual demand for this among the girls
themselves as evidenced by the requests of directors and
workers during the later part of the season.

MUSIC.

A Victor machine or phonograph should be provided for
each playground.

The following grounds have been maintained in the city
for the year  .

Chestnut street, Whiting school.

Elmwood.

PA

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS

Hampden street, with wading pool and skating rink.

Main street, with skating rink.

Maple street, with skating rink.

Morgan school.

West street, with wading pool and skating rink.

: Skating rinks are also maintained during the winter
months at North Pleasant street and the Highland grammar
school. |

In addition to the above the activities of Riverside park
and on Bh street near the high school, both summer and
winter, under the sfpervision of the park commissioners,

. have been greatly appreciated by many and perhaps call
for mention in this report.

Our grounds have been used by various organizations and
clubs on Saturdays and holidays for base ball, foot ball, ete.,
permits for such use being given by the supervisor. :

EQUIPMENT.

Giant strides should be placed on Hampden street, West
street and the Elmwood playgrounds.

The supervisor feels that he would have neglected rare
privilege if he failed to acknowledge at this time his sincere
appreciation of the help he has received from the commission. He would pay tribute to their magnificent efforts
in  which through the wise and able leadership of the
chairman, and the high quality of the public service that

 each of the commissioners has rendered, ensured success
from the start. .

To the Superintendent of Publie Playgrounds am
also grateful for his ever-ready and willing response to
assist. The press, the Transeript and the Telegram, were
most generous in giving space and news of our city’s playgrounds.

Respectfully submitted,
) P. H. KELLY,
Supervisor Municipal Playgrounds.

|  “a
  -&  bd .
—) bd hg  
LN m) soe rt  ;
| oa  ba   bd a) 
ae “oD.
is bd in oon] LN e
: oT or
 “eo  .- .
be  :
  oot re
g mp  ft Po bo 
s Si   Gili iis:
a   oon! :
FE; bd 
£  “a 
FE ox  d: se ee
a "Oo sot ofo "uD ss
oe)  “So  nd
 Sil; igi: fig:
N bd —) bd wt 
ex  Sn ss :
| ZN Ssik Ota
fx} Be NN  THs ad co
ap) Sts Fes SHLD LN Som &
 BOT mh Sst  mH
ws aNESs st 
mn on TN Oo
- seal
a e:  
fx)  le) e
a ao mf pK: 
Ss  ao .& ih oO
£  HOD ole SR Ree
(om) on  ate)  axe e) “oe
Z,  be  of on™  oO one) "Ag oO
 osSt  ,N&
— an) :
vy N
S ag oe :
So cs cs:
(a) ma -& is sme) .
mi IN "+: ct: “NS
i ri) iN "x "OS Ne) -O-.
  ot bd eet  ‘tH .
hd "Nin "oO 
Qa CO! "oO tS
i .
fom  .
o tors rotons
pa FD Pfp obi:
ix . .
jaa : :
fo rot toe et
 “a .
  -o wm,  sof oro
S  oe  .
to: -a.  .  Do.
  .z .
 wa  Oh  and  
Soin DIB! ne ;
 sgl iiss (Br Be
(Ra Sd  BR hd .
e eat [. ‘cs Tt ‘a
ge geiziler ae: es :s
w UG  a, toe gree S
SSEyeEsHE LEE SEES 'E
zELgiES Sidi se Pita  oo
SSESS ZL ESEE ES ESM EDEE
San SSL ESZSL ES ZERO
ESE ESR EES ES S-sro Pmeaee
  
ea) pond  ZX aa  
od fo ma aot as
.  peyrene  id
a]  Tw

:  *fAl  te
| uf re
 on Poe PD tt Diol ides
x Boe oe te et tte
es wo)
Fx
&
a}
v  *@ ae  tS
ae ae) ane)   Ca |
a  le  "on  .
Ba  IM Piri  : rir ig
e es . ed
x £
 )
Ang
a “OA  |
  mee)    ind en)
- ist i. DeePr iof ile
jga  
    ore
| ye
z 
ro Corn Critaond es oOCooeoocin
 gq STtm Ase KHSMMANSS HCONo|s
& S$ wer axe am wiser risnn eSKrisica
 +s Oak Satdtdoan mSer |e
—} re ae OO  wet OY LD  
S| is
y Fe
a
ont  So ret Co :-m Crrigm oct -:- “  !™
a Oo ct ms MOoMrman “Cine t
- DD OF ie atts owrdtisn "orem ié
$ SS: Oo it COs Dt .CcmtM |
a g™  Oo .N nn ne
jor  
A  es 
ro |. opt “t tO Ome CO TB
S CE co -o CO Tee]
[| [+   bd
 JN oY mor) Ne an re
: tS oO es  se on om boa
ao Ss   oe rm ny
, (-  rat
ine)   f
—
Py e
 es se
— .
   e
jor   .
   Py 
o— toe toe Doetok ol
 toe   et Dot
ev   .
. .- . .
.  e
-  ;
|  Smt oom  e
 od e
  DP IRote tie Bl: .
ico mee  a)  -
| -oc ,E .Y wee, woe
» ast -S St] .t  .. Rwre Hw oO
DL  "f CG .
  Pw gs “wrt ir esse Oté -R e's
-STMESCEMES TLE see ers Ff
FECES SET SE EEE SLE  h
“BEBCRLES V: RZ CST SSE
 -— nmeat wt ft
SEH ED SESE RSET SEES SH
MABE BOISE TDA STEMS FE aABaS
per AD wer Ue  Sten wm kienlaniedlSdenlanh dl aenkaceOC ERRNO
  TS. a)

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
SUMMARY.
Appropriation ............... ...... 
Total maintenance .......... |
Total new construction .......  
Total expenditure .......... 
Balance transferred to other
departments ..............  
—— 

Report of the City Solicitor

Lo the Honorable, the Mayor of the City of Holyoke:

The report of the law department for the year ending
December is respectfully submitted. —,

At the beginning of the year there were the following
actions pending: .

Ezra Paddock vs. City of Holyoke.

Inhabitants of Montague vs. City of Holyoke.

Francis J. Curley vs. City of Holyoke.

Herman H. Bucholz (in equity) vs. City of Holyoke,
et al.

E. H. Friedrich Co. vs. City of Holyoke.

Agnes G. McCarthy vs. City of Holyoke.

QO. O. Lamontagne, Admr., vs. City. of Holyoke.

Joseph Levinson, Admr., vs. City of Holyoke.

Louis M. Young, vs. City of Holyoke.

Isreal Harmon vs. City of Holyoke.

During the year the following entitled actions were
brought :

Daniel Martin vs. City of Holyoke.

Thomas McMahon vs. City of Holyoke.

Lorenzo A. Williston et als, Petitioners (in equity) vs.
Terence O'Donnell, et als, Respondents.

Hugh McLean, Petitioner, vs. John J. White, Mayor,
Respondent.

City of Holvoke vs. Myron C. Bailey.

Ashton E. Hemphill vs. City of Holyoke.

Disposition was made of htigation as follows:

Ezra Paddock vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort to recover damages in the

sum of  for serious personal injuries sustained by

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR  
the plaintiff as result of falling over an embankment near
the West Springfield line, owing to an alleged defective |
wooden railing. This case was adjusted by the payment
to the plaintiff of the sum of which consider a
very good settlement for the city.

Inhabitants of Montague vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of contract entered in the Superior
court for Franklin county to recover the sum of  for
expenses incurred by the plaintiff on account of the support
of pauper, for whose support the City of Holyoke was alleged to be liable in law. By an agreement between counsel the above entitled action was disposed of by an entry
of ‘‘neither party.’’ No money was paid by the City of
Holyoke to the plaintiff by way of settlement in disposition
of this action.

BE. H. Friedrich Co. vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort to recover damages in the
sum of  for damages to personal property, as result of the bursting of certain watermain or pipes. As
the parties to this action were about to go to trial an agreement of settlement was made whereby the City of Holyoke
paid to the plaintiff the sum of  In view of the dainage sustained by the plaintiff, consider the settlement a
very good one for the city.

Joseph Levinson, Admr., vs. City of Holyoke.

This was an action of tort to recover damages in the
sum of  for presonal injuries received by and resulting in the death of Raymond N. Leonard, minor, as a
result of the deceased being struck by an automobile owned |
by the City of Holyoke (Gas and Electric Department), and
at the time operated by an employee of said department.
This action was settled by the Travelers Insurance Company, who was the lability insurer against accidents of au  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR

tomobiles used by said department, in the sum of 

‘paid by it to the plaintiff.

Lorenzo A. Williston et als, Petitioners (in equity), vs.
Terence O’Donnell, et als, Respondents.

This was petition in equity filed in the Superior court
for Hampden county, August brought by ten taxable inhabitants of the City of Holyoke against Terence
O’Donnell, Joseph H. Potts, John F. Kennedy, Wilfred G.
Deroin, August Baush, Maurice G. Donahue, John J. O’Connor, Dennis F. Lynch, Edwin D. Wells, individually and as
members of the School Committee of the City of Holyoke,
and Hugh McLean, doing business in said Holyoke under
the name and style of McLean Brothers. Said petition alleged among other things that said School Committee ilegally exeeuted certain contract with said Hugh McLean,
for the installing of certain desks and chairs in the HighJand School building, so called, in said Holyoke. The
praver in said petition was that the respondents, and each of
them, and their servants and agents, be restrained from. earrving out or attempting to carry out the provisions of said
contract and that temporary restraining order be issued
to that effect. Such an order did issue as against the respondent, Hugh McLean.

During the pendeney of said petition in the Superior
court and before final hearing on the merits of said petition, a

Petition for Writ of Mandamus
was filed in the Supreme Judicial court for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, by said respondent Hugh McLean,
to compel John J. White, mayor of the City of Holyoke, to
affix his approval to the contract in question. hearing on
last mentioned petition was holden before Mr. Justice Hammond of said Supreme Judicial court, who reported the
issues Involved to the full bench of said court for adjudication, and as result thereof the decision was in favor of the

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR  
respondent John J. White, and said petition for writ of
mandamus refused. |

The following cases are now pending: .
Francis J. Curley vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of tort for damages the sum of
$  for personal injuries sustained by the plaintiff as
a result of being thrown from his wagon on Beacon avenue,
owing to an alleged defect in said street. This action has
been pending for some time and although the eity has been
ready for trial  was impossible to pro owing to the
continued serious  ness of the plaintiff, thereby necessitating the continuance of said action for trial from term to
term.

Herman H. Bueholz (in equity) vs. City of Holyoke et al.

This is bill nm equity praying the Superior court to
restrain the City of Holyoke from removing eertain sign
on Dwight street. Timothy MaeCarthy, City Engineer, is
named as co-defendant. Negotiations are now pending between counsel which undoubtedly will in the very near
future result an agreement being filed dismissing said
bill in equity, without costs.

Agnes G. MeCarthy vs. City of Holyoke.

This  an action of tort to recover damages in the sum
of  for personal injuries received by the plaintiff
on the Westfield road, owing to an alleged defective eondi- ,
tion of said road. Offers of settlement by the plaintiff in
a nominal sum have been made to the defendant but re- |
jected, inasmueh as the defendant feels there  no merit
in plaintiff’s case.

QO. O. Lamontagne, Admr., vs. City of Holyoke.

This  an action of tort to recover damage in the sum
of  for personal injuries received by and resulting
in the death of Alex Boudreau, as result of said deceased

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR
falling on an alleged dangerous and defective sidewalk on
Main street near the corner of Hamilton street. As in the
last mentioned action, various offers of settlement in nominal
sums have been made by the plaintiff to the defendant but
rejected.

Louis M. Young vs. City of Holyoke.

This is an action of contract to recover approximately
$  alleged to be owed to the plaintiff by the defendant as balance due for labor performed and materials
furnished in constructing, erecting and building the White
reservoir. This action is being defended by the Board of
Water Commissioners, who prior to my appointment as City
Solicitor retained special counsel for that purpose.

Israel Harmon vs. City of Holyoke.

This is petition to the County Commissioners of Hampden and Hampshire counties, for assessment of damages for
land taken by the Water Commissioners of Holvoke for the
new White reservoir.

, Daniel Martin vs. City of Holyoke.

, This is an action of tort to recover damages in the sum of
$  brought by writ dated June for injuries
alleged to have been sustained by the plaintiff, an employee
of the City of Holvoke (Gas and Electric Department) by
reason of the alleged carelessness and neghgence of the servants and agents of Lynch Brothers Brick Company, who
on the date of the injuries sustained by the plaintiff, were
erecting and constructing under contract with the City
of Holvoke, building near the place of plaintiff’s employment, and for whose alleged carelessness and negligence
said Daniel Martin claims the City of Holyoke to be liable to
him in damages.

Thomas MeMahon vs.. City of Holyoke.
This is bill in equity filed July  th,  brought by the

REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR  
petitioner against the defendant, alleging among other.
things that the City of Holyoke without right and illegally
is maintaining and keeping open two certain drains or eculverts under the highway known as the Easthampton road,
and as result water is discharged in large quantities on
certain premises owned by the petitioner, to his great damage. The prayer in said bill of equity is that temporary
restraining order be granted, and that the City of Holyoke
be ordered to pay to the petitioner compensation for all
damage sustained by him. As result of hearing before
Mr. Justice King of the Superior court, the restraining
order prayed for in said bill in equity was denied and the
issue in question referred by the court to James L. Doherty, Esq., as master, to determine the facts and report
same to the Superior court.

City of Holyoke vs. Myron C. Bailey.

This is an action in tort, pending in the Superior court
for Hampden county, to recover for damages to certain
personal property owned by the City of Holyoke (Fire Department), viz:—one buggy and one harness, as result of
the alleged carelessness and negligence of servant of the
defendant while operating an automobile on Northampton street in said Holyoke. An agreement for settlement has
been effeeted in this case and check of  will be re
ceived by the city within few days, which is the amount
paid by the city for the repairing of said buggy and harness.

Ashton E. Hemphill vs. City of Holyoke. .

This is an action of tort to recover damages in the sum
of brought by writ dated September  th,  for
damages to land and buildings owned by the plaintiff, sustained on July  th,  said land and buildings being
located at the corner of Cabot and Commercial streets in
said Holyoke. It is alleged that owing to the improper
grade of said Cabot and Commercial streets, surface water

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR
and drainage, on sai dJuly  th,  was diverted in large
and unusual quantities over land of the plaintiff.

Several notices of personal injuries received, of damage
to personal property, owing to the alleged defective condition of sidewalks and streets, have been served on the city
during the eurrent year.

The Committee on Claims of the Board of Aldermen gave
hearings ‘to various petitioners for damages and awards
were recommended by said committee as follows :—

DAMAGE TO PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Henry Nash (damage to horse and hack)........ 
J. A. Coderre (damage to showease)............  
$ 
PERSONAL INJURIES. ,

Jerome Kennedy (received at Springdale park).. 
Catherine Kane (received on Dwight street)....  
Mary Casey (received on Lyman street).........  
Phihp L. Lake (r ived on High street)........  
$ 

In the last mentioned claim the City of Holyoke was reimbursed in the sum of  for the damages paid to
Phihp L. Lake, by P. J. Kennedy, Jr., in aeeordanee with
the provisions of certain contract entered into by and
between the City of Holvoke and said P. J. Kennedy, Jr.

The following named petitioners were given leave to withdraw on their petitions for damages, either to person or
personal property, by said Committee on Claims, viz: Julius
Richter, Mary L. Manning, F. F. Celee, P. C. Steiger, Joseph
Stacy, John Kane, James M. Sullivan, and Ashton E, Hemphall. :

It was necessary during the course of the year to hold
several mectings of said Committee on Claims for the purREPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR ,
pose of considering various petitions, which in addition to
those hereinbefore mentioned, included petitions for abatement of sewer assessments. The members of this committee
were very dutiful in attendance and gave each and every
petitioner every opportunity to sustain his petition. In no
instance was any award made by the committee except
where advised there was legal hability, and the amount of
damages awarded in each case was only what was fair and
reasonable. Sentiment or favor was no factor in determining the amount of the award.

During the current year three important ordinances were
ereated and enacted, viz: ‘‘An ordinance Relative to a
Tax Limit for the City of Holyoke’’; ‘‘An Ordinance Relative to the Creation of Planning Board for. the City of
Holvoke’’; and ‘‘An Ordinanee Relative to the Establishing
and Maintaining of an Independent Industrial Sechool.’’ In
the preparation and drawing of these three ordinances a
great deal of thought and study was required.

I had oceasion to appear before various committees of
the Massachusetts legislature of the current year in support
of or in opposition to certain bills which had been introduced, wherein the interests of the City of Holyoke were

concerned. The folowing entitled acts of interest to the
City of Holyoke were approved, viz: ‘‘Aets of  Chapter  An Act to Authorize the City of Holyoke to pay a
sum of money to the widows of Patrick J. Riley and James
J. Lynech’’; *‘Aets of  Chapter  An Act Relative
to Elections in the City of Holyoke’’; Acts of  Chapter
 An Act to Authorize the City of Holyoke to ineur indebtedness for School and Police Buildings.”’

Various sums of money have been collected by me and
remitted to the Gas and Eleetriec Department and to the
city treasurer, on account of unpaid bills for gas and eleetricity, and sewer, curbing and sidewalk assessments. I
am pleased to state that in these collections was very su ssful, fact which the city treasurer will voueh for.

I have assisted Hon. Nathan P. Avery in the revision of

  REPORT OF CITY SOLICITOR
the city ordinances and many sessions of the Ordinance
Committee of the Board of Aldermen have been held
during the year. It was apparent in the course of the revision that many changes should be made and the result cf
of the work done by the Ordinance Committee, Mr. Avery
and myself, know will be appreciated.

Many opinions written and oral, have been rendered by
me to the various departments; also many contracts have
been prepared for the different departments.

Titles have been examined and deeds prepared for the
Water Commissioners, Park Commissioners and Board of
Public Works.

It is evident from the foregoing report that most of the
litigation in which the city was the defendant, is the result

' of alleged defective highways and sidewalks. Special attention should be given to the conditions of all highways and
sidewalks within the metes and bounds of the City of Holyoke with view of seeing that the same are reasonably safe
for travel thereon as required by law. few dollars expended in repairing dangerous places will save the city
large expense later. The most economical way to protect
the city from paying money for damages to persons sustaining personal injuries and damages to personal property on
highways, is to keep the highways in good repair.

The current year has been very busy one for the City

 Solicitor and the amount of work which he is called upon
to do can hardly be appreciated except by those persons connected with the various departments of the city, who have
occasion to require his services. |

Many courtesies have been extended to me by His Honor

the Mayor, and other city officials, for which am grateful.
THOMAS J. O’CONNOR,

) City Solicitor.

Report of the City Engineer
Lo the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

Gentlemen :—The fortieth annual report of the City
Engineering Department for the year ending November  ,
 is hereby submitted.

RECEIPTS. |
By appropriation .................. e- ++. 
Receipts ..........       teen   
$ 
EXPENDITURES.

Salaries of City Engineer and assistants........ 
City directory .......  ...         
Engineering periodicals .............. cc   
Office supplies ........  ... cc  nee  
Printing and binding ................   
Telephone service ...........      eens  
Team hire and carfare ............. cc eevee  

Balance unexpended (transferred to other departmentS ......          ees  
$ 

PAVEMENTS.

Permanent pavements have been constructed in several
of our streets during the year. Springfield road, Main,
Jackson, High, Hitchcock, Maple and Fountain streets were
the principal thoroughfares treated.

Daniel O’Connell’s Sons had the contract for the sheet
asphalt pavement laid in the Springfield road from the West

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

Springfield line to Day avenue. From Day avenue to the
third level canal on Main street was paved with asphalt
block two inches thick on concrete base: P. J. Kennedy,
Jr., had the contract for the work.

The city laid ereosote wood block pavement on the
easterly side of Main street between Hamilton and Sargeant
streets. The department also re-covered High street with
an asphaltie coating from Appleton street to Cabot street.

In Maple street from Sargeant to Norfolk street, in
Fountain street from High to Elm, and in Hitcheock from
Northampton street to the street railway crossing west of
Martin street, Hassam pavement has been laid. This is the
first pavement of the kind in the city

These improvements are much appreciated by the traveling public. The widening of the Springfield road near
John Prew’s house has relieved very dangerous condition.

Paving Jackson street from Main to the second level 
eanal involved the strengthening of the arch over the tailrace of the American Thread Company’s mill on the westerly side of Main street. Paving street invites all kinds
of traffic, and while the old arch was of sufficient strength
for ordinary travel, it was not considered strong enough
for the very heavy loads which must necessarily be hauled
to the factories on Jackson street. With these conditions in
view, the arch was reinforced by the addition of  -inch
ring of concrete before the street was paved. Granite
block taken from Main street between Hamilton and Sargeant was used for this work.

WATER DEPARTMENT.

After the completion of the engineering work on the
dam at the White reservoir, the Water Department removed
all plans, instruments and apparatus belonging to their department, to their office on Commercial street.

Henceforth, according to their decision, the City En- .
gineer will not be required to do the engineering for the

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
Water Board. However, until the conclusion of the ease of
Young vs. City of Holyoke, the services of the City Engineer are indispensable to the board. Thirty-five days
have already been spent in court by the City Engineer and
his assistant, Mr. F. J. Millane, and more than double that
number of days have been devoted to the preparation of
the case. Maps and models to the number of about thirty
have also been prepared in connection therewith.

The White reservoir was filled so that water went over
the waste, weir in April. Notwithstanding the very dry
summer season, the additional supply from this source has
kept all the reservoirs well filled.

A small contraction seam in the core wall extending
from the easterly end of the dam caused some slight seepage. Recently the department remedied this trouble by
putting selected material on the up-stream side to replace
the more or less porous material which was used in the .
original fill. That such an insignificant amount of seepage
has developed is most exceptional, and speaks volumes for
the excellence of the work accomplished.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
 .
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF CITY.
 ———
a
co  hel wt ry zo
Location  Es Ss as SY
  Be gs
a
South Hadley Falls (county bridge)  ft.| ft.  
Cisht SPANB........... ececs ne cossees
Bridge st. at Valley Mills....................  ft.  ft.  
Lyman st., over Ist level canal ............  ft.  ft.  
* Lyman st., over  nd level canal...........  ft.  ft.  
Dwight st. over Ist level canal (brick)
road and concrete walk................. ft.  ft.  
Dwight st., over  nd level canal (brick
road and concrete walk)..............sse  ft.  ft.  
Appleton st., over  st level canal.........  ft.  ft.  
Appleton st., over  nd level canal........  ft.  ft.  
Cabot st., over Ist level canal.............. llu| ft.  ,e ft.  
Cabot st., over  nd level canal.............  ft. ft.  
Cabot st., over  rd level canal (granite
road and concrete walk)..........ss.  ft. ft.  
Sargeant st., over Ist level canal.........  ft. ft.  
Sargeant st., over  nd level canal........  ft.  ft.  
Jackson st. over  nd level canal...........  ft.   ft.  in.  
Main st., over  rd level canal...............  ft.  ft.  
Willimansett (county bridge), three
SPAMS. .... - eescce eccecse ucssecesescess  ft.)  ft.  
. Willimansett Bridge (approach).........  ft.  ft.  
Foot bridge over B. M. R. R. tracks
at Dwight sBt................. cc cncceneces  ........c ccnoees ft.  
Total ..........  ecsecce ecersses |  

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
TABLE SHOWING HISTORY AND CONSTRUCTION
ACCOUNT OF THE BRIDGES OF THE CITY.
tet Location Built by Year Kind "Coat
Appleton St. Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.| Metal Not Known
Appleton St. Over  nd Level Canul down of Holyoke ves  
eplaced by
Appleton  t. sess City of Holyoke .........../  
Bridge  t....., “* Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood Not Known
' Keplaced by
Bridge  t..... oe City of Holvoke.... ......./ Metal  
Oabot St......; Over Ist Level Canal) Holyoke Water Power Co.| Not Known
Cabot St......| Over nd Level Canal’ Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood .
*Replaced by
Cabot St......)  ** Oity of Holyoke............) IS Metal
Cabot St......; Over  rd Level Oanal, Holyoke Water Power Co.| ss Wood {| as
| Replaced by Masonry
Oabot  t...... oe City of Holvoke............) Arch 
. Dwight St....; Over lst Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.; Metal Not Known
eplaced by
Dwight  t....)  City of Holvake............; 
Dwight  t..../ Over  nd Level Canal Holvoke Water Power Oo.} Wood Not Known
eplaced by
Dwight  t....) City of Holvoke............{ Metal  
Jackson St... ses Holvoke Water Power Co.) Wood Not Known
| Replaced by
Jackson St...)  “* City of Holyoke............] 
Lyman  t....} Over Ist Level Canal. Holyoke Water Power Co.; .* Not Known
eplaced by
Lyman  t.... “ee City of Holyoke............| Wis Metal  
Lyman St....| Over nd Level Oanal Holyoke Water Power Co.; Wood Not Known
eplaced bg
Lyman  t.... “ese ‘* Town of coke... Metal  
Main St......| Over  rd Level Canal Hoivoke Water Power Oo.' Wood Not Known
eplaced by
Main  t»..... soTown of Holyoke..........| “*  
Replaced by
Main St....... ‘S  ** ‘Town of Holyoke..........] Metal  
Replaced by
Main t......|  Oity of Holyoke............}  
Masonry
Sargeant St, Over Ist Level Canal Hol yoke Water Power Co.| &I  Arches Not Known
epliced by
Sargeant St. ‘see Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood “*
Metal and
| Replaced by Reinforced
Sargeant St, City of Holyoke............  Concrete  
Sargeant St. Over ad Level Gana! Holyoke Water Power Oo.| Metal Not Known
Dwight St Over B. M. RK. AK.
Foot Bridge Track...  , Oity of Holyoke............]  
COUNTY BRIDGES.
l
Holyoke and Joint Board Hampden
So. Hadley Over Connecticut and Hampshire County
Falls Bridge River .................| Comminstomers soo Wood  
Holyoke an Replaced by Joint Board
So. Hadley Over Connecticut Hampden and Hampshire
Falls Bridge River................. County Oommiasioners.. Meta)  
Holvoke and .
Williman.- Over Connecticut Hampden County |
sett Bridge River................. Commissioners ............)  
a we
*Replaced by Old Bridge from Dwight St Cost included in New Bridge on Dwight St.
NOT E—Total construction account of bridges to date, .

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
SEWERS.

It is the policy of the Board of Public Works to require
all the city departments to make needed repairs in underground services before permanent improvements are started
by the Board. Accordingly, sewers were laid in Main street |
and in the Springfield road before the new pavements were
laid.

Some of the recommendations made to relieve storm
water conditions in the Front street trunk sewer and its
laterals have already been put into effect with good results;
full benefit, however, cannot be expected until the main
features are completed.

Maple street culvert, so called, was extended easterly
towards the Holyoke Westfield railroad location, concrete
masonry being used throughout.

A list of the sewers built during the year is appended.

REPORT
OF CITY ENGINEER  
re ,
g on .
 ]
  $s  wa  .
 o) fo) re a
lve)   La] w
  Cn)  P] pe)
g  a
 fa
Oam gs ne be ce 
oe ES Se rs] ai “i .
  Ss lamt-F-   :
£  a
Otay py oe
i  Lad  om 
a Ss  ee
pei: €§  &
i?) *.  bd :
 En BL: oe :
o ae i?) Ay .
S fon wo .
ts) rc) Kg se  SZ *
Sm oO Oe im oO  oy z
y| Hae) re  cs ae
  gf of
. ae Land Ps  —
si |
fu
m oa
& |!  S&S  
ee || —+——————  Ss SS)
— ee
be  :
 px 
zi |e FOROS
pod  bd .
r, A
We ca: SS: Sh:  Es: Fe: gi FE:
pe et:  s: Be:  g: ge: Ee:
fa gb. ga, ): Fe, bg. BL ge: $: :
 fm: on! wot: a: —s: pel Cc ': s:
Z| HE fy: ged ei ef) s@i gi Fei g.F  s: fe:
! e-  wo: Ree gq: Cc: ome ca £E& so: om:
x moe oo: co a: Se: oe. SP “ae aie.
Th || Saag  ofS  oP: Bie   Co:
ssa  : S-— 
tom Gea CEH  ar St@ &: fll Ee  SS os
ou |: SvG go SFG Bp ams cig  gis Ete  EOE EE Sp Re Bt fopep Heo gs fee Fee
— bee Cc
Sa: Se: a:  ti ti  ss  CE: b: Fai Be: Fe: oo
dp) o: z; Be SE: OR: Ss: go: aa: Fo: Sa: Gx:
 |! ZX’ a) zh “! pe: tw :
pm . :
gg ce +n es Se: PS: Ro: Rg: sti gs: :
Mm} os fee eg Ses af S: Sue SE eZ pF AS: wR:
E eed Ss  Ge  cg Des See Sez Hee Se:
r See cS Bze om “F: of Mek eof Bok Bek gs Ce:
| en  tz wes fe  We ose fg See ai  wc.
 Bex Es Ch ewe   wm poe  £g
g ae coh “£e Ess og ge ag wat  
ae] em gs Ae aL  ers Hc  EZ cha &
i  ce Ege eaS  SES sc ee)
es ce a) BE G&&k  age Gas Pen
; ao  A®g weE Gq
 be BSE Se So  : ca &&
r) g: : :
B aé ;
FA es Es Es aa ge :
te Q: &a nag  £.-  ge
 CU eg en && £
 :® st “s “S om C. 
er Ral   al  Re we heid -§os Pe
: cl x]  
s Ho Bi
.  Ss  :
 Dey Bey pe of  :
 aa :
vs  le  :
Ss  Si
S  CJ
é é€  &@  :
E ee
x  val —
se we
ws re a
ys  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
| os a
) PS  
+ o) z+ oC  &
& co  Ss i)
  Pan |
| Oo  im oe 
| Gi Es tai Ri: A, il er
| Ss Kl Om
| ®@ FB s
 Pu fe  oS SsS| —) ES n
| oe  .
| Ztss| oom —
& :
a ww |
Beas a
oe co wo mo 
—
i [ee seers  , PE GT
| Ss Ee
|| gf at a
o :
  a) 
$ BB |S Lo nO md COSn we  oH
od) a
— -
-— |} ted  s.-  FY Ed z
 |

oe
 —— ——- LK DDD DAR DD LLL
 
LS AR as  FF FARE #as BS
— —m —
| ||  
a
ms  . *
aia (a.  of @o we ae
or nn  al
m  bd *
eS  ad *
| B:  GE: gy: @So S   
— Bi pt Sas est Bi: Bah “sais wee Bee ESSES:  :
— iB tie! Bi og: &: Ge: gl: SEBRS: ae
— wus: ie .'  a) sat mK ES a.  Fa ma: g
aA aes as. Say a. We Bas Be: a:  
—  me cn, oecit  pe Sw Ee
|  iS: wae ie oS oy “eS  S"s SS.
Te Bet Sse fy SS Bas Sle ner Jes ofe 
. io}  ed -— -a  a: SH Fel gee gg, Bedasd  |G. Geb  “zg Es EeB Gas EeuSeu Ge
i  
z Sf seae  
a at sé £: &; s: $f: gaa be z
“f. Be aNae om: Qa: s
Sa S: Gat &) BB: S&S: wm: Gu: $a: as  Eee :
es  Sa: crngol Set Zanae
|| ge Bi eo:  gbi St see
 “s ats tsew S-  ae  “ss
 cg “as CS oO: Pt Be: rs geste oe
| ep cof He .i ci £: gd “Senge Se
id Bi fie Hee oe e+ -—i a? “— -t te F
| cs iis if ig  Zoxcae 
a es
| |-   |
: So: A
»-  eS os:
|  es es ke fe
 ag ef  gf ge  get gg  gee
io) Fs  oom be f
 FS ty P. Es  Es  By
|  “eo Ker “os “ao --o nore bar,  .
-— “Is Bw  Py »
A  “Hs  ssh  eis  
$ ate  
; zs bd os
as fo}  :
St Fe  eas La  pe of*
| A: i}
| fw  ond eo 
S qe:  
z  -:  C)  
tin  .
S Ss .
 cD te hi Th 
| tc
S a
|  gE
vigttzed ty GOORle

REPORT OF CITY ENGINZER  

The lengths, kind and average cost of the curbing and
sidewalks laid during the year are shown in the following
table:

CURBING.
Length Kind  ot per lineal Total cost laid per
feet City lineal foot
ee
  ein first class granite ee.  
|
  -in. second class sranite. iGranite   om  A
SIDEWALKS.
Length ,
in Kind Square yards Total cost per sq. yd.
feet
—
  ‘Portland Cement............... exclusive of
| excavation
  Tar Concrete .................... including ex| cavation
CITY PROPERTY.
SANITARIES.

Plans were prepared for the work of re-modelling the
sanitaries in the Morgan, Highland and Elm Street Schools,
and for additional accommodations in the Elmwood Engine
House. ;

Plans were also made for public waiting station at the
rear of the City Hall.

COAL POCKET AT CITY FARM.

Plans and specifications were made for the new coal
pocket at the City Farm. This building, to store about  
to tons, was erected adjoining the boiler house.

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL.

The house on the Shea farm on Homestead avenue,
purchased by the city, was considered by the Board of
Health as desirable for use as contagious disease hospital.
At the request of the Board, plans were prepared by the
City Engineer for remodelling the building.

SURVEYS. .

Surveys and cross sections were made of the various
plots of land on which the High School Gymnasium, the
Central Fire Station and the Police Building are being
erected.

Maps were prepared for the layout of playgrounds, sanatorium roadways, widening Northampton street and for
acceptance of Madison and Lexington avenues.

Maps were also prepared for the Board of Public
Works of the districts to be covered by the garbage collection.

LAYOUT OF NEW TRACTS.

Under the new ordinance passed this year for the regulation of the development of new tracts of land for building
purposes, plans were submitted for the tract known as
Brookline, and also the Allyn tract near Cherry street.

With consideration for adjoining properties, changes
providing for convenience of travel and reasonable grades
were recommended by the City Engineer and adopted by
the owners of the land.

In this connection the advice and suggestions of the
City Planning Board recently established will be of invaluable assistance to the several officials whose duty it  to pass
upon matters of this nature.

HOUSE NUMBERS.
House numbers have been assigned to the various

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
streets in which new buildings were erected. In several instances readjustment of old numbers became necessary.

PRECINCT MAP.

A map of the new precinct in Ward Three was prepared during the year.

PARKS. ,

Improvements have been made in Elmwood park by replacing the disintegrated tar walks by new concrete walks
according to the old lavout as planned by the late Daniel H.
Newton.

New conerete walks and concrete driveway have been
constructed in Prospect park by P. J. Kennedy, Jr., contractor, from the plans and specifications by the City Engineer. new shelter is being erected near the Elm street
entrance, and plans are in course of preparation for the layout of fountain to be placed in the circle near the Chestnut
Street entrance.

This park will eventually be one of the beauty spots of
the city.

Conerete eurbing was laid around the park area in Fairfield avenue by Lyman Winkler.

ORDINANCES. ,

During the past year the codification of the ordinances
brought about consideration of sections of the building ordinance which needed revision. Several new sections were
added.

At my recommendation section was embodied in the
ordinanee providing for the ceilings of cellars in all tenement buildings to be covered with metal lath and plaster.
It is believed that this protection will prevent fires originating in cellars from spreading to the upper floors.

Sections regulating the use of plain and reinforeed con  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
crete construction as well as concrete filled columns were
also recommended.

Some changes were advocated relative to making fireproof rear piazzas in tenement blocks.

Public hearings were given by the Ordinance Committee and the Board of Aldermen at which these matters were

thoroughly discussed.

A meeting of the architects of the city with the Chief
of the Fire Department was held in the office of the City
Engineer. It was finally agreed that while adding materially to the cost, buildings were not rendered more safe by
the addition of fireproof piazzas. The sizes of joists, however, Were increased and maximum span was determined
upon.

Occasionally plans are submitted for buildings, which,
although complying with the ordinances ,do not conform to
the standard of the neighborhood in which it it proposed to
erect them. In such cases it seems that owners of adjoining properties should be entitled to consideration.

Problems such as these come within the province of the

| Planning Board.
GAS DEPARTMENT.

For the roof of the coal pocket, the concrete roof and
sides of the retort house and for the machinery piers and
foundations in the condenser house at the gas works, plans
and specifications were prepared and guides given by the
City Engineer.

ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT. SO

Plans and specifications were made in this office for
the addition to the wheel house at the electric hight station.
In the underground conduit contract with P. J. Kennedy, Jr., all lines and grades were given, and man detailed from this office as inspector.

Conduits were laid in the following streets: Bond, CaREPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
bot, Essex, Appleton, Division, Suffolk, Dwight, Hampden,
Maple, Jackson, Franklin, Main, Newton, and High streets.
In all, about one hundred thousand feet of conduit including
sheraduct service pipes and ninety-seven manholes were
constructed. Lamp posts were set in the various streets to
the number of fifty-nine.

For properly conducting the work of this department,
instruments will be needed in the near future to replace
those taken by the Water Department. |

The present quarters of the City Engineer do not provide fireproof vaults for the filing of records in compliance
with the state law, and are otherwise inconvenient for conducting the business of the office.

INSPECTION OF BUILDNGS. |
Appropriation .........  c. ee    ees 
EXPENDITURES.

Salary ....     ec    t  ss 
Office supplies, printing, car fare...............  
Balance unexpended (transferred to other dePpartmentS ......      tenes  

: 

The number of inspections made is as follows:
Additions and alterations on wooden buildings........  
Additions on brick buildings........................  
Apartment blocks .............           

. Business and tenement blocks .......................  
Barms and garages ...........      eve  .  ]
FactorleS ....... cc cep      tee  sc se  
Residences ......... cc cc      ess OT
Two tenement dwellings ............................  
Storage houses ...........    eccesecesee  
Public buildings ..............  ...       
Number of permits issued ................... .-.  
Number of tenementS  ... ....          BOD

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
COST OF ABOVE.
No. Permits Cost
Wooden buildings .............. 
Alterations in wooden buildings...  
Total .........         
Brick buildings ................ 
Alterations in brick buildings....  
Total ......         
Fireproof buildings ............. 
. Total .......     
ELECTRIC WIRING. .
Appropriation ....  ...      ee     
} EXPENDITURES.
Salary oo...            
Office supplies, printing, car fare...............  
Balance uwnexpended (transferred to other departmentS  ... cc      ees  
$ 
Number of specifieations filed during the year....  
Niunber of inspections, new installations.......... |
Nunber of inspections, old installations..........  
Practically all new buildings ereeted during the year
were wired for electricity.
This has been reeord year for wiring of old buildings,
the owners realizing the advantages of eleetrie lighting.
Old apartment buildings wholly wired,  number of
tenements,  .

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  

Old apartment buildings partly wired,  number of
tenements,  .

Tenements in old wooden frame houses wired,  .

The total number of tenements wired for electricity
during the year which were formerly lighted by gas or kerosene lamps .

The territory covered by this department has been
greatly increased during the year owing to extensions of
Wires to Smiths Ferry and other outlying districts.

Requirements of the new National Electrie code will go
into effect early in the coming year.

A nunber of important changes have been made in the
eode ,chief of which is the grounding of transformer secondaries.

The standard of eleetrie wiring has gradually improved
since this inspection department was established five years
ago, and now compares favorably with that of any city in
New England. Old and defective installations are being
replaced throughout the eity.

STATISTICS.

The following is table of the statistics of the city of
Holyoke compiled and brought up to date.

Population May U. S. eensus.......  
Population May Water Works census  
Number of voterS .......... ce   
Number of polls .........  ...  eens  
Public school enrollment, day.............  
Public school enrollment, night............  
Parochial school enrollment ..............  
Area Of City ......           sq. miles
Greatest extent east and west............. miles
Greatest extent north and south........... miles
Area of school property.................. sq. ft.
Area of city parks ............      acres
Area of city hall and city yard lots........ acres

  REPORT OF CIryY ENGINEER
Area of contagious hospital land.......... acres
Area of city farm, Loomis lot, Allen lot,
gravel bank on Springfield road, ete... acres
Area of Fire Department property......... sq. ft.
Area of Municipal Lighting property...... sq. ft.
County roads ..........          miles
State highway .......  ...        miles
Streets accepted .....     ees miles
Streets unatedp .............    miles
Sheet asphalt pavement ............... miles
Asphalt block pavement ............... miles
Granite block pavement .............. miles
Vitrified brick pavement ........... miles
Hassam pavement ...........  eens miles :
Bitulithie pavement .............   miles
Wood block pavement ............ miles
Macadam pavement ...........     miles
Streets watered oo... cc   miles
Sidewalks and crossings ...........  miles
. Water mains,  -in. and puwards in diameter miles
GaS MAMS .... LL    eens miles
| SOWETS        tee    miles
River front  ... ..  ...        miles
Steam railroad locations ............... miles
Electric railroad locations .............. miles
Blectrie hght and power cireuits (munieipal) miles
Eleetrie are street lights .................  
Electric incandescent street lights......... dat
Railroad stations ...........     oD
Churches ....... cc       ees  
School houses ........  ...     ees  
Commereial schools ...........    
Number of tenements, including residences.  
Police station  ...       
Bath houses ........  ...       
Fire engine houses .........   
Fire alarm boxes .....   ween  

) REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
Hook and ladder trucks ..................  
Fire hydrants, public ................. ..  
Post offices and sub-stations ..............  
Area assessed ........ ce        acres
Valuation, personal ................... -. 
Valuation, real estate .................... 
Tax rate per  .................. .. 

To the Mayor, the Board of  |Adermen and the other eity
officials who aided: me in the discharge of my duties my
thanks are extended.

The relations between the City Engineer and his assistants in the office have been most cordial, and to their hearty
eo-opeartion can be attributed the success of the large and
varied amount of work accomplished under great difficulties
during the past year.

Respectfully submitted,
| T. J. MacCARTHY,
City Engineer.

REPORT OF THE .
Sinking Fund Commissioners
Holyoke, Mass., Nov., .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund for the Pay- —
ment of Municipal Bonds respectfully submit the following
report.

FINANCAL STATEMENT.
Amount of fund Nov. ............... 
Received during the year from City Treasurer:
Nov.  acct. H. W. R. R. Div... 
Nov.  acct. Water Commissioners  
Nov.  aeet. Appropriation, city.  
) Reed interest on investment and

balaneeS ............ +. 

Total ...  ee      

Disbursements:

May  sewer bonds .............  |
Oct.  sewer bonds ............. 
Amount of funds to date ............ 
Invested as follows:
MUNICIPAL BONDS.
Pittsfield .............. .. .. 
Woburn ..... ee   
Middlesex County ...............  
Holvoke ...........-. -+--  

REPORT OF SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS  
Whitman ........................  
Springfield ......................  
Commonwealth of Mass.......... 
Holyoke notes (temporary loans)............  
Certificates of Deposit:
Holyoke National Bank .......... 
Hadley Falls National Bank......  
Home National Bank ............ 
Mortgages on real estate.............     
Cash in bank at interest.................. ..  
$ 
Respectfully submitted,
HARRY J. BARDWELL,
JOHN J. FINN,
S. A. MAHONEY,
Commissioners of the Sinking Fund.

Report of Board of Assessors
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:
Gentlemen :—The Board of Assessors respectfully submit the following report for the year  :
' Appropriation .................. 
Balance Dee. ............  
——- 
EXPENDITURES. |
} Assessors’ salaries .............. 
Assistant assessor’s salary .......  
Clerk co...     
Printing street lists, ete..........  
Books, stationery, ete...........  
Looking up records, Springfield,
Boston, ete. ........   
Assistants taking polls ..........  
Postage ...    ce      
Advertising ......   
Team hire .....  ...      
. Street ear books ............ ..  
Card mdex oo...        
Miscellaneous .........       
Transferred to general receipts...  
. ————- 
AMOUNT RAISED BY TAXATION AND PURPOSES FOR
WHICH SAME IS RAISED. .
City of Ilolyoke's proportion of state tax of
  ... cec s 
State highway tax ....  ...      

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
City of Holyoke’s proportion of county tax
Of  ....... ees  
City appropriation to be raised by taxation..  
Total amount ordered raised........... 
Overlaying on above amount...............  
Total amount raised by taxation for
above named requirements ........  
In addition to above amounts we assess up- |
on bank stock of local National Banks
not owned by residents of the city’ of
Holvoke tax which  collected by the
tax collector and paid to the state treasurer amounting tO ......... cc   
Making the total amount of tax collector’s
Warrant co.cc      ss 
TABLE SHOWING POLLS AND PROPERTY UPON
WHICH TAX IS LEVIED, WITH VALUATION.
Valuation. Tax.
Real estate ............ ...  |
Personal estate not including
bank stock owned by residents wo...        . 
Stock in local National Banks )
owned by residents of Hol- |
  
Polls at  each...... 
Total ........... -. . 
In addition to above, stock loeal National Banks owned
by non-residents ..........  
Total .............. .-- . 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS

The valuation of real estate is divided as follows:

Value of land ................... -- +- 
Value of buildings ....................  

Total value of real estate................ 

The increase in valuation over is as follows:
Personal estate ......  ...  cc  eens 
Real estate  ... .... cc ce    teens  

Total increase ...........    ees  

The tax rate was fixed at  per thousand of the
valuation on all property subject to taxation. As shown by
the above table the total valuation upon which taxes were
assessed for the purpose of meeting the appropriations made
by the Board of Aldermen, the County and State tax and
overlayings was .

Total amount of taxes assessed for the vear  for
State, County and City purposes, not including non-resident
bank tax:

General tax levy made by the Assessors as of

April  ............... -...  
Additional assessment made on polls, at

$  each ..... ce ec ce   weeny  
Omitted assessments on property made Dember on ...........  
Commutation tax assessed to Holyoke Street

Railway ‘Company, October ....  

Total wo... cc         

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
ABATEMENTS GRANTED DURING YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER .

On tax levy of  ............    
On tax levy of  ................ .....  
On tax levy of  .............      
On tax levy of  .........  ... cc ee  
On tax levy of  ...........  ...  
On tax levy of  .....................  
On tax levy of  ................ ... 
On tax levy of  .............. ..... 
$ 
PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.

City of Holyoke, real estate and machinery... 
Houses of religious worship.................  
Benevolent and charitable societies...........  
Literary societies .........   ee    
Temperance societies ..........        

Soldiers and sailors, and wives and widows of

soldiers and sailors who served in the war
of rebellion ...........  ...  ee    
Value of exempted property............. 

STATISTICS.

Number of property polls .......................  
Number of single polls ...................... ...  
Niwmber of supplementary polls ..................  
Number of property owners .....................  
Number or horses ............    cc ae   
Number of COWS ........  eeenaes  
Number of neat cattle other than cows............  
Number of swine ............  ...    
Number of fowl .........  ...         

 REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS
TAX RATE PER THOUSAND DIVIDED.
State, per thousand .......  ...  ...      
County, per thousand .........  ...    ot
CTV co         te eee ese  
Total tax rate per thousand................. 
VALUATION, INCLUDING OMITTED ASSESSEMENTS,
AND TAX RATE.
Valuation Tax Rate
Is Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——————. ss  Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estafe .......  
Personal estate ...  
———————. Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————  Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——————— ]. Real estate  ...  
Personal estate ...  |
——————  

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS  Real estate ....... 
. Personal estate ...  
| —————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——————. Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate ....... 
Personal estate ...  
—————. Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————  Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———————.  |
 Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS
 Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———— Real estate .......  
| Personal estate ...  
——— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——§——— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— 

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS  Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  ————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— Real estate ....... ..............$ 
Personal estate ... :
——————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
| —————— Real estate ......  
Personal estate ...  
————— 
JOSEPH J. KELLY,
JEREMIAH J. KEANE,
WILLIAM G. BEAUDRO,
Board of Assessors.

REPORT OF THE
Sealer of Weights and Measures
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

Gentlemen:—I have the honor to present to vou the
eighth annual report of the Sealer of Weights and Measures
Department of the City of Holyoke, for the fiseal vear endmg November .

I wish to thank the city officials, the manufacturers and
the merchants for the courteous manner in whieh have
been ived by all in the discharge of my duties. detailed report of the work performed and inventory of the
office equipment is herewith presented.

WORK PERFORMED.
Correct Adjusted Sealed Cond. Total
Platform scales over  

Ibs. wo.       
Platform seales under  

Ibs. wo.     OG OUD  
Butchers’ seales .... ... Lot  
Peddler’s scales .........  oe W/  
Counter scales ..........  
Iee seales ......... 
Spring scales ........... 
Penny im the slot seales.. 
Weights .............--.  
Dry measures ...........  
Liquid measures ........  
Yard sticks ............  
Ive eream boxes ........  
Iee eream cans ..........  

| REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES :

Pumps bee ua  
Measuring machines ....  
Reweighing in stores ......  ...    
Reweighing  C@  ...  ...         
Inspection of milk jars on teams...............  

Inspection of peddlers’ teams.................  .
Seales tag ......       teen   aee  
Measures tag ....  ... cc         
Coal rewelghing .........  ...      
Fees collected and handed to City Treasurer...... 
Fees due the department Nov. ...........  
$ 

OFFICE EQUIPMENT.

One bulhon balance. One Massachusetts standard balance. Two sealer’s trving balanees. Nickel plated weights
(avoirdupois), one lbs., one lhs., one Ibs., one  
Ibs., one lbs., and one lbs. Two sets brass weights
(avoirdupois), one lbs., one Ibs., three lbs., three  

' |bs., three lbs., two  z., one  z., two  z., one  z.,
one  z., one 'y oz. Troy block weights,  z. to  gr.
Grain weights, gr. to gr. Standard set apotheearies’ Weights. Standard set gram weights. Set troy
weights. One kilogram in cherry box. One steel meter in
box. One standard brass vard measure. One brass vard
measure. Two ft. tapes. One ft. tape. One set Massachusetts standard iron dry measures. Square east iron
weights (avoirdupois), forty lbs. Two sets wooden drv
measures. QOne set nickel plated liquid measures. One set
copper liquid measures. One mahogany box for the same.
One upright drill. One breast drill. One kit of tools and

  REPORT OF SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
wooden box for the same. One kit of tools and leather
case for the same. One Gurley’s completed  sealer’s
  lbs. rod lead. One reading glass. One counter scales.
One portable platform seales. One spring seales. One set
of drv and liquid measure graduates. Two bushel baskets.
One eabinet and ecards for card system. One basket seal.
Two liquid measure sealing presses. One desk. One typewriter and stand. Five office chairs. One clock. Two
hand trucks. Three tin measures. Two badges. One
pencil sharpener. Three weighing stands. Seven hooks.
One electric fan. One vise. Four funnels. One saw. One
hammer. Rubber stamps. Marking aeid. Steel dies.
Seals (paper and lead). Two racks for sealing bottles. One
heating stove. Book ease, books and stationary.
JOSEPH D. GODDU,
Sealer.

REPORT OF THE
Overseers of the Poor
RELIEF DEPARTMENT
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:
In accordance with the charter and revised ordinance
of the city, the Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit
their thirty-ninth annual report, it being for the fiscal year
ending November .
The number of persons aided during the year was  ,
representing families, at an expense of .
The department also furnished burial for bodies at
an expense of .
The total expense for the year for all classes of partial
and full support, has been as follows:
City, outdoor poor .............. 
City, sick at hospital ............  
City, burials .................  
————— 
State, outdoor poor .............. 
State, sick at hospital ..........  
State, burials ................  
———. 
Cities and towns, outdoor poor.... 
Cities and towns, sick at hospital..  
Cities and towns, burials ........  
—§— 
Overseers of the Poor............  ;
Salaries .......   een 
——— 
City Farm ........        
Total expense ............... 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation ................... 
Receipts from all sourees..........  
Additional appropriation .........  
Overdraft ..........  ... ce      
———— 
Following is detaield statement of expenses outside '
of the City Farm:
AMOUNTS APPROVED, OUTDOOR POOR, YEAR  .
Atlantic Pacific Tea Co...................... 
D. M. Addleson ...........  ...  ee   
C. R. Alger .....  ...     
L. D. Ally  ...   cc       
Anker Printing Co... .......  ...  eens  
J. N. Authier .......  ...   cc       
P. Authier .....  ...   eens  
Adelson Bros. ........ cc         
Adelert Balne .........        
H. O. Beauchamp ...........       
Walter BanoS  ... ce cc     
Baldwin Bros.  ...      eens  
J. H. Beauchamp .........  ...  ee ees  
JOS. Bama oo...      tenet     
L. J. Becker  ... ens  
Mrs. G. Barre .....  ...   teenies  
Nap. Ball .......  ... cee   en   )
C. EB. Bardwell oo...  ...ees  
B. BartuszewieZ ..  ... cc          
Jos. Beauchemin .......  ...      eens  
O. Beaudoin  ... ....  eens  
W. J. Beaudry ...  ce  eens  
Louis Belsky  ... cc cc   teens  
W. C. Bouvier, M. Di...ee    
Bibeau Coal Co.  ... e  ees  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  !
City of Boston .........  ... cc   ce  eens  
Boston Market .............           
T. Bourbonais .........  ...        wees  
Bibeau Coal Co. ....... ee   |
C. Blais .... cc        
G. H. Boehm ......  ... ce    
N. Bouehard .......  ...    ee    
Frank P. Bridges Co.,.........  ... ce      
W. T. Burns Shoe Co..............  eens  
Bresnahan O’Brien ................       
Henry Butcher ..........  ...      
G. C. Burnham .......  ...  ce     
S. Burnstein .........  ...    ee    
A. A. Browilett .........  ...          
City Ice Co.   eens  
Sarah Carlinsky .............       
O. Z. E. Charest ......  ...         
Jos. A. Corriveau .....     ce  eens  
J.J. Carroll, M. Di... ce es  
Vincent Carlin .....  ...   ce  ees  
AL OW. Careatl  t eens  
Edward CadieuX ..........    ee enes  
City of Cambridge ..............  ...  
D. Chaille ..  ...         
Temple Cheverie .........  ... csc  eet    
City of Chicopee... ....   cc     ees  
Cleveland’s Pharmacy ............. .e     
Thomas S. Childs Shoe Store .............. ..  
O. N. Chaput .......         
L. Cloutier Son... ......     
J. N. Chapman .........       
Curran Bros. .......             
Collins Murray ........--   t   
GS. Coderre ...       tcc ec     teenies  
Joseph Cote ...... ce        eens  
Paul Cote .....      te   eens  
J J. Craven oo...         teens  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
Oliver W. Cobb, M. D.........................  
A. Coderre co... cc      ee   ees  
Commonwealth of Mass...................  
Desmarais Drug Co. .....      
Thomas Dillon  ...  ... ce     
W. QO. Ducharme ............  ...      
Amedee Desforge .......      
S. Davis Son .......      
Cornehus Donoghue .............    
Val Ducharme  ...  ce eens  
A. D. Durocher....  ... cc  
James Daly oo... e      
Dr. Thomas A. Dillon. ......  ...  ce   
C. M. Donnelly  ...  ... ees  
John F. Donnelly... ..  ...  ee    
D. J. Donoghue  ... ..  ... c    
Tim Donoghue .....  ... eetenes  
M. J. Doyle Ptg. Co...       
John Dovle, Jr... cc. ce   eens  
W. J. Dumelow .....  ... ec   
Hugh Donoghue ......... ce     
Elliott's Park Pharmacy ...............     
D. M. Foley Market Co........      
N. Feldman wo...  ce nent eens  
S. AL Flynn... co.  eens  
Flynn Drug Co.  ...     
Mary Flynn oo...          
Fitzgerald’s Book and Art Store...............  
City of Fall River... ..     
* J. H. Fitzsimmons .........       )  
Michael J. Flaherty...  ...  ce    
Joseph A. Falvey... ..  ...         
J. L. Fairbanks  ...  eens  
G. EE Foster  ...ees  
Maurive Garvey co.cc         
Gilbert Crotean co...       
Sevmour BK. GateS  ...      

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
A. F. Gingras .......  ... cc       
A. F. Glesmann .....  ... cc     
Gavlord Coal Co. .......  ...    eens  
W.F. Grady Co...    
. J. Goldwasser ...  ...        ees  
Frank L. Greaney......  ...      
Mrs. B. J. Grady.......  ...  ees  
James Grfflin  ...         
John Golat ..... ec cc ce ee  ees  
Thomas Griffin ...........  ...       
Goulet Boisvert .........  cc       
Green the Druggist ............  ...  cc   
Mrs. Franees Greenspan..............     
Grois Bros.  ...   ce     eens  
Green Optical Co.  ... ec    
Wm. H. Guay ....... cet  
Mrs. Hattie Guillerie...........  ...        
Goodall Drug Co. .......    
Wawrzenlee GwodzZ ........          
Joseph Guertin  ...   ees  
Hall Lyon  ...       
Dennis M. Haggerty ......................  
J. J. Hafey...         
John Heinritz Son.........    
George H. Hill .........  es  
Elizabeth Healy .........  ...       
Arthur Hebert ..........  ...  ees  
Dolor J. Hebert  ... .....       
House of Providence Hospital and Home........  
Holvoke City Hospital........................  
Holyoke Infant Hygiene Association............  
P. E. Hurley, M. D........................  
Holyoke Cash Market ...............    
Holyoke Coal Wood Co.....................  
Holyoke Public Market .................-..  
Hobbs Warren .............     
James P. Hobert .........       eens  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
| Edward J. Hussey, M. D...........    
Independent Pharmaceutical Co. ...............  
Jaynes Drug Co.  ...  cc       
Mrs. R. Jacobson ........... cc  ce      
; P. Juraz oo.   cc tte     
Kelly Bros. .........    ecceteens  
Edward J. Kenney............  ...   
John F. Kennedy...........  ...       
Wm. E. Kronick .........  ...   ees  
Jos. Karakula ...........     eens  
Kee Lox Mfg. Co....  ...  ...  ee    
Kisiel Bros. ......  ...  eters  
I. Kaplinsky ......  ...            
D. B. Kelton Co... ....   ee    
R. F. Kelton. ....  ...    ce      
Joseph Kopleman .............      
L. .Laporte Drug Co...........    ees  
M. J. Laporte ....  ...    eens  
Frank Leja ......       eens  
John D. Leary  ...     ees  
D. D. Lewis  ... ..  t   eens  
A. Lewis Co... ec   tees  
J. A. Labreeque  ... ...    eens  
John Lamb .......         
Dr. Wilfred M. Labelle..............  
H. C. Laporte  ...      eens  
Citv of Lowell .......  ...ee       
City of Lawrence  ...         nee  
Julia M. Lewandowska, M. D...................  
Michael J. Lynch .......  ... ce       
Henry BE. Lynch, M.D... ee  
City of Lynn  ... eee      
Louis J. Maigret ..........  ...    eens  
P. A. Mahonev oo.  ... cc ce eens  
MeAuslan Wakelin ........  ...  ewes  
H. Marcotte  ...     eeeens  
OSL Masse co.cc       eens  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
A. K. MacDonald .........  ...       
T. C. Marra  ... ...           
D. J. MeCarthy......   cc     
Jas. MeMahon .......  ... cc       
Martin Machnik ...........  ...  cc     
Sebestven Made] ......... cc       
Maziarz Ciboroski ..........  ...       
Agnes J. Manning .............   ewe eens  
George Menard ...........  cc cc        
A. J. Marcotte  ... cence  
H. C. Markert......  ...      
Dr. John W. MeCarthy .........  ... cc   
Mrs. Harry McDonald .............. cc   
N. W. Miller ....  ...           
A. C. Menard  ...  ... cc   cc ce  tees  
N. Mercure .......       eenees  
Bridget McDermott ...........  ... se    
Emil Messier ...........         
Millane Bros. ........  ...   cette teenies  
Theonille Morin ..........  ...           
H. L. Mousette ......  ...   ees  
Morin Bros. ..........         eens  
Michael Morrison ............   ees  
T. J. Morrow  ...   cc        ees  
M. .Moynahan ..........           
BE. J. Moriarty  ...  ... ee        
J.J. Moriarty .....  ...   ee eens  
J. J. MOrrison .......        ete    
D. J. McCarthy... ...  ...   cc      
M. M. Murphy ...........  ...      
Mrs. A. Mulholland. .............. cc wees  
Mt. Holvoke Lithia Spring Water Co............  
N. E. Telephone Telegraph Co................  
L. Nadeau .....        cent    ,  
Ed Naving .......             
M. J. Norris  ...  ee      
Charles P. Nadeau .........          

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR

Michael Norris ............       
City of New Bedford............  ... 
Josephine de la Neuville, .D.................  
R. R. Nickerson .........  ... cc  eels  
City of Northampton ....................  
Paul Niemiro .........  cc ce ec ce      
O’Donnell’s Family Shoe Store................  
John J. O’Flaherty  ... .... s  
Overseers of the Poor...........   
George .O’Conuor .........  ...  ee    
John O'Connell  ...     
BE. O'Connor  ...    ete ett enes  
Thomas O’Donnell .........        
Ostrowski Co.  ...  eens  
A. OQuimette oo...     
John Ostrowski  ...  ec ce  |
I. J. Perrault .....  ... cc   eens  
H. Perrault  ...  ...   ees  
Mrs. Wm. Patten. .......  ...      eens  
Town of Pepperell ........  ...      
City of Pittsfield  ...          
Physielans Record Co .........  ...     
Pomeroy-Williams ........       ees  
John H. Potts, M. Do...  ...ee  
Gilbert Potvin  ...  ...       
Wim. J. Powers, M. Di... oe ec 
Joseph N. Prew  ...  eens  
Price Lee... cns  
John Pulhopek  ...  ...     ees  
John F. Quigley... oc.   ees  
P. Rely oo... cc ec ce ce     neces  
D. Rubin  ... ce          
Roy Desnover oo...  ...       
Charles Rheume ........  ...   
Joseph A. Robitaille .....  ...  ...      
Charles U. Rove...   ene  
Joseph Saltan oo...  ...  ee   eens  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
Mrs. Naney Schmitter ............    
Mrs. B. Sadler ...  ...  ... en  
Sampson-Soch Co. .......        ,
smith Drug Co. oo... ce   ees  
Shea McKenna ........................ ..  
Morris Smith  ...  ...    ce    
B. T. Silverman .......  ...  cc e    
F. W. Sigdy ...  ...      
Joseph Shiftman  ...  ...   ee    
Johu Shea ....  ce    tee  
"OOS. R. Smith wo...ee    
S. Solin wo... cc  ee       
A. Steiger Co... cc eens  
J. Solin  ...   cc ec   eens  
City of Springfield .......  ... cen  
So. Holvoke Cash Market.................  
Joseph Stacy .......            
R. J. Strasenburgh Co............  ...    
Frank Stein ..  ... ec ce  eens  
James J. Sullivan ..............   
Mrs. P. A. Streeter. i...  ... ce   es  
Aleide St. Jean wo... cc    neces  
Anthony Szymasko ........  ...      eens  
J. M. Sullivan ...  ... ec 
J. C. Tormey  ...      
J. Tancrede ........ ececeuues  
F. H. Thomas .......  ... cc     
Wim. Trombowski ..........  ce     eens  
Transcript Pub Co. .......... 
Max Tiedman .........   cc cc      
O. Tessier ..  ... ce  ete eens  
Union Coal Wood Co............     
A. R. Vincent  ... cns 
Waskielewiez Co. ..  ...      
H. Wolfson .....  ...        
Town of West Springfield.....................  
J .Wolfenden .....  ...        

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
Edward D. Warren, M. D......................  
Town of Westfield .......  ...    ne  
Wm. B. Whiting Coal Co............    
Joseph Wiaczkis ...........       
Mrs. Sarah White ............      ees  
. Winthrop Pharmacy ...............   cease  
City of Worcester .........        
Town of Worthington ...........   
Yahnig Burnette ...........  ...     
Alex Yotte  ...        ete eeaee  
, Hyman Zass ......  ... cc    
A. Zachetsky .......     cc   eens  

SSaSSSsSSSERRB B
|  HOL PER LERRRRESE B
| ae
. Sees esses  sr  
tiv om  tlm
|  BRERRRESRRSEE  
| a, a
Sl cosjajpel (ss  
wv Moms Bs  aes, &
: ‘
S| supuig BFS RERKRBHLBSB GO |!
pus fisuonms AN SHO Am Hm EF wD  I
 sayddng ayo Yl R
e ||} ——
i CESSES e
pont soueppaong je osnoyy iS oS  RFF lw ae SSS SSSR SETS RL
zy mono |S SSSE ERRRE|
a a
  sees ses  &
Rowman Sake SER ER ESE!
wn :
  esoesos (EE RSS Sesser se
Oo poe suoydalaL  SRRSEPCTBRAaAS wpmoaut SP si; BE] S|
|| pee |e ie Ete fel
ai |B Sse see See Bl| S|
S|   BERET SELES RTF
com lw  |
fx, oom
S| wm |sgeSe  g
| -
 “RAS SSBRSRBLES, B
gjmmormens ERE RER 
| @
& |\————————s  TST SEE  
:end pag SSS  RBS &
” a
wit... ), wea [AR EERERESE SS a
a N
x "sas AS a]  snap Gc BU BUFFER BEE BE ER 
Bd
a Pp iibapid bp :id iid
Pepi gt, dl  
eg ese ERE
se SERRE PR as SE
AasSn Ed BAR KC gZogd

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
SICK POOR.
The expense at the hospitals for the care and board of
sick poor was .
The item for medicine for the patients at home and
attended by the City Physician was .
CTY FARM.
The number of inmates cared for during the years was
as follows:
Number of inmates December ................  
Number admitted during the vear..................  
Number discharged and died.......................  
Number remaining November  ..............  
IWOSPITAL DEPARTMENT. |
Of the above number the following were admitted to
the hospital department:
Number of sick in hospital December .........  
Number admitted during the vear..................  
:  
Number discharged and died... ...  ...     ) 
Number remaining November ..............  
The total number of persons receiving hospital treatment during the year was as follows:
Males co.cc             nee 
Females co.cc          tent ecene 

| REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  

Of the above number were sent to the hospital direct, the remainder were inmates of the institution.

The duration of treatment aggregated weeks and
two days or an average of four weeks and three and onehalf days for each patient.

Following is detailed statement of expense at the
City Farm:

AMOUNTS APPROVED, CITY FARM, YEAR  .
M. A. Allen Son... ...    
American Soap and Washoline Co..............  
Samuel Butcher ......    ees  
B. F. Bigelow .....  ... cc cc         
T. E. Begley  ...     
R. D. Berman .......  ...  eens  
W. T. Burns Shoe Co..  ...  nee  
Bresnahan O’Brien........ ...     
M. J. Bowler oo... ce  ees  
Balwin Bros. ..  ... cc   ees  
P. H. Brennan .........  ...       
C. G. Burnham  ...  ...     
John W. Brown ......... cc cc          
Collins Murray.............        
M. Callahan Co. ....  ...     eens  
H. D. Chapman .........  ...         
Bart S. Casey oo.  ...   cc    eens  
Chase Bros. Co.  ...  cc cc       teenies  
T. M. Cleary Cow...  ees  
Dennis Chaille  ...  ...       
M .Curran .....  ...      eens  
Cuahy Packing Co.  ...     
Chase Cooledge .........     eens  
Thos. S. Childs Shoe Co............   
C. B. Dolge Co...  ...      
Dietz Baking Co.  ... ..-  eeees  
Rev. John B. Daly .........  ...     

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
Peter Donegan ...........     ce  eens D. J. Donoghue .............  ...   
Dr. T. A. Dillon  ...ccnee  
Rich J. Donnelly ............  ...     
John F. Donnelly .........  ...      
E. L. Dean  ...    ees  
Hugh Donoghue .........  ...     |
Timothy Donoghue ..............  
C. M. Donnelly .........  ...  ce cc 
Rieh. J. Donnelly ............  ... ees  
Eureka Ruling Binding Co..................  
Mrs. Bruno Ezold .............  ...  eens  
Elmwood Pharmacy ............. ..     
Herman Egar .........  ...      teeens  
Fitzgerald Book Art Co................. ..  
Flynn Drug Co.  ...         
F. L. Greaney .......     
T. J. Griffin  ...     
Gallivan Bros. .......            enes  
Geary-Sullivan Co. ....... cc ees  
Goodall Drug Co.  ...  ...       
A. F. Glesmann ....  ...   ees  
J.C. Griffin  ... ce   eens :
James Griffin ..  ... eeens  
) Holyoke Supply Co. ........     ees  
I. Harris ..  ...         
Holvoke Brazing Machine Co.................  
; John Heinritz Son ........      
Holyoke Broom Works ..............       
Hicks Bros. .......   cc       eens  
Holvoke Valve Hydrant Co.................  
Holvoke Produce Co. ....... ce    ees  
BE. W. Kroepel .......-    
Kaffir Cigar Co.  ... cc     ete nee  
Kelly Bros. ......  ...        ees  
John F. Kennedy  ...  ec e      
Leahy Ptg. Co. .....  eens  

-- REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
D. D. Lewis  ... cc ec   ce    
iP. L. Lappin  ... ce    
Lynch Smith  ...        
Millane Bros. .......  ... cc           
A. E. Martin  ...  ...     cc      
James J. Mahoney .........  ...   enee  
David Mahafey Co.......  ...  es  
Meany Clothing Co. ......... ees ,
A. F. MeDonald ............  ... ce    
Maplewood Mills ...........  ...  ce      
MeAuslan Wakelin .................     
Dr. J. J. Moynahan ............      
C. B. Sampson ........          nee  
A. F. Sehmitter  ... ... cc    
P. J. MeLean ...    
, N.E. Telephone Telegraph Co................  
New York Butter House......................  
H. BE. Nash .......      ees  
M. J. Norris ........    ee   
Northampton State Hospital ..................  
E. O’Connor Co... ..   eetees  
O’Donnell’s Family Shoe Store................  
Oakdale Mfg. Co.  ...      
R. T. Oakes Co... cc ec  eens  
Price Lee ......     
Prentiss, Brooks Co..........        
Casper Ranger ..........      eens |
James F. Reidy .........  cc    eens  
C. W. Rackliffe .......  ...   
G. E. Russell Co.  ...     
J. Russell Co.  ...    
Shea McKenna ............    ees  
Mrs. James EB. Shea.......  ...   ees  
Smith Butter House .........  ...     
Sullivan Carmody ...........     
L. Sears Co...        
F. A. Shelley ......  ...    ees  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR ,
A. Steiger CO...    eens  
Dr. T. J. Shinkwin ....... e    
Smith Butter House ....... ....... .......  
Sutherland Co. co... e    
C. B. Sampson  ...  ...eens  
Swift Co. co...       
J. Co. Tormey oo...     teens  
E. D. Wells Cow... cene  
West Disinfectant Co. .............. e--)—  
Win. Williams oo...  ...       
Winthrop Pharinaey .......  ...     
EF. W. Woolworth Co... ... ee  —. MeCarthy oo. ce      ) 

$ ls
. 
” zg OS Ss
: a: ba Ss &
. —— Ss now |
|  
S| mse lS pee aE Ho
 AYJ re ?
-  :
  :
 pus so "[ :
: he   oe
auoudajay  
w puw Yydasjo #*  ,
 Aap te,  
[a  ——  an  gouaede ae 
{ere pprnseginees):
 atjddng re: :
 ———  al
; aa BB oN |
; fe @]
E rs re & Ps |
—  re |
:  |
ae ————— too ae oan )
(x) oauiguin  rn  
oe Ve) b-  fo +} -
   
Sc  
s gr ew: RO  |
gio mame  TRUST}  
oz iS |
:  SS al)
 id :
Zo an eR Re   tae
aR oO ||
  pus sao 
fx} us| a
oT |
a Le
 reagreye z
  ec SF —
a |SeRR  aH
  peed os  pag eG EE :
- peaeeSaee| a
oa 
j sit fees :
fx ysl  .
Q pues wwe oe  
rE i
  |
re .
  :
o Rxs gs an :
a ar og  
: mz  
S$ ag :
be :
  :
  Z|  
§$  
E  }
  ae
  se
a tg |
aq

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
RECAPITULATION.
Outdoor poor, city ................ 
Outdoor poor, state ...............  
Outdoor poor, cities and towns.....  
Overseers of the Poor..............  
City farm ................ -- '
———§—— 
| Cr.
By amount charged to state........ 
By amount charged to cities and towns 
By visits of City Physician, state....  
By visits of City Physician, cities and
tOWNS Lo.       
By cash from state ................  
By eash from cities and towns......  
By eash received from board of indiVidualS co...  eeee  
By cash from sale of farm produce.  
By cash from sale of pigs..........  
By refund .............    
————  
Net expense to city for year  .............. Respectfully submitted,
- PATRICK J. DOWD,
WILLIAM J. DILLON,
HENRY H. BAUSH,
Overseers of the Poor.
J. J. BYRNES,
City Almoner.

REPORT OF THE 
Department of Police
OFFICE OF THE CITY MARSHAL.

Holvoke, Mass., December |
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

Gentlemen:—In compliance with the city ordinance, I
have the honor herewith to sbumit for your consideration
the annual report of the department for the year ending
November .

ORGANIZATION.

The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal, Captain, Lieutenant, five Sergeants, Chief Inspector,
two Inspectors, and sixty Patrolmen, one of whom is detailed as Acting Inspector and three detailed in the office.

ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  .

Name Rank Date of Appointment
Patrick Herbert, Asst. Marshal, January 
Timothy Haley, Captain, February 
Peter A. Cullen, Captain, February 
Patrick EB. Sullivan, Lieutenant, January sst
Dennis Mack, Sergeant, May 
William E. Blackmer, ‘* January 
George L. Dickinson, **  February 
John J. Moriarty, February 
Patrick F. Ryan, .* January 
Frank R. Metcalf, Inspectro, February 
Maurice M. O’Connor, ‘$ June 
Edward F. Gilday, Acting Inspector, July 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Name Rank Date of Appointment
Thomas F. Riley, House Duty, January 
John A. Powers,  January 
Cornelius Curran, “* February 
Richard Peters, Patrolman, January 
Michael J. Lynch, January 
Francsi H. Hastings, January 
| John A. Geran, January 
James B. Griffin, February 
Jeremiah J. Lennehan, ‘* February 
James T. Donoghue, June 
Rock H. Lalonde, June 
Thomas Brosnahan, June 
Maurice H. Shine, ‘* August 
Henry M. Fisher, ‘* August 
Daniel C. MeCarthy, ‘* september 
William J. Carey, February 
| Michael Driscoll, February 
Peter J. Manning, ‘* February 
| Patrick J. Kennedy, February 
Walter E. Murray, “s May 
James Maleolm, *é July 
Patrick J. Driscoll, July 
Thomas J. Rourke,  July 
Patrick J. Gaughan, ‘f July 
Andre J. Senay, ‘$ March 
Albert Mew, *s June 
John J. O'Donnell, ** June 
Maxwell McDowell, ‘f August 
James T. Welch,  January 
John J. Grady,  February 
Henry Sussenguth, ‘‘ October 
Michael J. Clifford, “é February 
Michael P. Conroy, ebruary 
Medrie Beloin,  sebruary 
John E. Goss, March 
George W. O'Connell, ‘s April 

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Name Rank Date of Appointment
Michael J. Prendergast, October 
John J. Austin, ‘é May 
Michael J. Fogarty, May 
Timothy J. Mannix, February 
George E. Leary, we June 
Frederick W. Kuenzel,  June  
William A. Morgan, June 
Timothy J. Murphy, Setpember 
Michael J. Walsh, December 
Joseph A. Landry ‘‘ December 
Michael J. Herlihy, April 
James J. Tisdall, April 
John T. Quinn, April 
Albert M. Alben, April 
Garrett Bowler, ““ April  .
Patrick J. Falvey, “s April 
Joseph P. Kane, aa June 
Arthur E. Standen, December 
George Hickson, ‘“ December 
Patrick J. Sullivan, December 
Edward H. Ashe, December 
Archibald R. G. Fletcher, “‘ December 
John F. Moriarty, “s May 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Matron, April 
William .C. Bessett, Reserve Officer, January 
James J. Fitzgerald, “s January 
Thomas E. Powers, January 
Joseph A. Champagne, October 
Roger P. Coffey,  April 
Michael J. Ginley, April 
Charles G. Leonard, April 
Jeremiah F. Coffey, January 
Luke F. Kilmurry, January 
Thomas F. Lenehan, January 
Roger Donoghue, January 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Name Rank Date of Appointment
Frank P. Schenker, January 
James L. White, ““ January 
Otto Egar, January 
John J. Sullivan, ‘““ January 
STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
Total number of arrests..........................  
‘ Males  ...         s.  
Females ...  ...         eens  
ARRESTS WERE MADE FOR THE FOLLOWING
OFFENSES.
Abuse female child ...:.....  ...   ee  
Assault and battery  ...  ...  ee    
Assault with dangerous Weapon .................  
Assault with intent to kill....... .... .. .... ...  
Assault on offi@er oo...  ... cc ce    
Assault attempt to rape.......     
, Attempt to commit larceny .............    
Bastardy ..  ...   eet enone  
Breaking and entering ......  cc         
Breaking and entering with intent to commit larceny  
Breaking glass  ...           
Breach of the pease  ...  ...        
Carrying dangerous Weapon............. 
Carrying revolver oo...  c. cc ete    
Creating disturbance in the street cars...........  
Cruelty to animals  ...  ...  ...          
Delinquent child  ... ..eeee ees  
Drunkenness ....  ... cc        
Evading ear fare ...  ...   eens D
| Exposing for sale storage eggs not marked.........  
Formication oo...   ce    ee ene  
Fugitive from justice  ...  ...    
GAMING Loc cc       teat     

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE tr
Illegal liquor keeping .........  ...       
Indecent exposure ......  cc   eens  
Keeping disorderly house..............    
Keeping gaming house .......... ees  
Keeping gaming machine............... 
Keeping child from sehool....................  
Larceny  ...    ee teen teens  
Lareeny from building..................    
Malicious mischief)...ee   
Neglected child  ...  ... ees  
NOn-SUDPOrt  ...         
Peddling without heense ....... ee      
Practising medicine without being registered......  
Practising optometry oo...  ...     
Receiving stolen goods ........     
StubbornnesS  ... cc       eens  ]
Sureties of the peace... ....        
Truaney oo...   ene    
Unlawfully taking team... .....  ...        )
Unnatural and lascivious act. .........     |
VAQVANCY  ...       eens  
Violation automobile law ..........  c. ce     
Violation city ordinane  ...  ...     
Violation fish and game law............. ce   
Violation labor law  ...  ...    nee  
Violation oleomargarine law ....... ....      
Violation park ordinance ..............   .  
Violation rules Board of Health...................  
| Walking on railroad track............    
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Appealed .....  ...      ene    
Bound over to the Superior Court..............--.  
Committed to the House of Correetion.............  
Committed to the House of Correction for non-pay, ment of fines  ...  ...        ees  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Committed to the Industrial School fcr Girls. .......  
Committed to the Hampden County Truant School..  
Committed to the Lyman School for Boys..........  
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory......  
Committed to the State Board of Charity...........  
Committed to the State Farm.....................  
Committed to the Woman's Reformatory...........  
Defaulted  ...  ...       eens  
Discharged ..........      t een ees  
Dismissed  ...  ...        ween  
Fined and paid ..........    teens  
Noll-prossed  ...  ...  ec ce    ees  
Placed on file  ... ...        
Probated and discharged .............. 
Released  ...   ce     en   
NUMBER OF PERSONS ARRESTED EACH MONTH.
December,  ...      
January, LIB oo.     eens  
February,  ...  ...   eens  
Mareh,  ... ce   tenes  
Apri,  ...   eens  
May, oo...ene eens lo 
June,  ...    ees  
July, WDI  Lo.  ee  ees  
August,  ... cc ce eens  
September  ..  ...     
October, oo.   eens  
November,  ...  cc     

AGES.

Under years ..  ...  ec te   and under yearS........  ee   and under years...  ... ce      

| REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
do and under yeors.........  ee   and under years. ....  ... cc  ee    
oo and under years. ...  ...       and under yearS.........         and under years.....  ...  ees )
 
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED.
AMECPICA  ...       teens  
AUSHI]A coeee tent teen eens  
Belgium oo... cc   eens  
Canada oo...      ene een  
Denmark  ...   tenes  
England  ...  ...   et    ees  
France  ...      nen eens  
Germany oo...  ce  ee tee   eens  
GLOCCE Loc      eens  
Treland  ...  ...    een ees  
Italy co.       eens  
NOVWay oo...       cette nee    
Nova Scotia ....  ...         
New Foundalnd ..............  c.       
Portugal  ...          
Poland  ... ...  ec       eens  
RusSl@ one   ence   
Scotland  ...         ee  
Sweden ......  ... cc           
Turkey wo...     ene cette  
Wales ....     eens ]
 
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY POLICE.
Number of children found and restored to paTONS Leeee  ee  
Number of meals furnished prisoners..........  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

Number of dead bodies found.................  
Number of fire alarms given...............  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms...  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported. 
Number of sick and injured persons assisted...  
Number of stray teams taken up..............  
Number of street lamps reported not lighted...  
Number of arrests for other citles.............  
Number of warrants for liquor served.........  
Number of bicycles reported stolen and not reON Ay CS  
Number of bicycles reported stolen and recov 
Number of bicycles found and returned to own- —

CS  
Number of safe doors found open............. oD
Number of dogs shot .........     
Number of defective sidewalks reported.......  
Number of defective ecatch-basins reported.....  ]
Number of insane persons cared for........... 
Number of notices served...........    
Value of stolen property.................. ... 
Value of property recovered..............-.. 
Amount of money reported stolen............. 
Amount of money recovered ........... ..++. 
THE FOLLOWING IS THE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL

SYSTEM.
Duty ealls from patrolmen.............  
Telephone calls  ...      ees  
Wagon calls, davs ......  ... ee   
Wagon e@alls, nights ..........  ...    
Number of trips to Hampden County jail......  
Miles run co... ce      

  NX v,
CLASSIFICATION OF ARRESTS BY MONTHS.
| |
s}ele sig ele elelelele  
Sl aia  a/ a) a! B|  }\ a;  a
Arrests for were for “loys ets eunees enEs
the follewing causes: $/ §)  Ri S| £€,  Fi alo}  
apa) eg)  a] o)  F
{
| bo
Abuse female child.............c -)-.--| Lecce fecc fec lactees[ectee [ecs |ecssessen  cec   
Assault and battery.............--,  );   
Assault with dangerous .

WEAPON ......-- nee ? QD Li) OD J fec nlec cf ! DL [occ  ces  ne  
Assaulc with intent to Kill  .) ...ece|       e| | access cecleos / {ess s| ll  
Assault on ONCOL... ess sees s df    j....--| ....c. cease]  
Assault, attempt to rape.........  lac e[ c [ecwece] ane ere  
Attempt to commit larceny .....)-s:  Lo [es  seejecc |ecs ce[s s[esefecese. oD sec ]  
Bastardy ..... erabot ns een ner see Bi licc |ec ec nj  wrens  
Breaking and Enterimg.-c.--.---..)seesee cesses veces life Qe] SB bo. Doe.  
Breaking and entering with' |

intent to commit larceny, --- aa wes en -|  ces lcaanealec  rs re Sarre |
Breaking glass ....... -..cecceccec|ses  scence] s sec|ese[oso  ccwece Do  li estec : ene  
Breach of the peace ene [ree cesles ] |..... ...)  

 Carrying dangerous weapon reste] Lo fecs cow ] LD fec  cence con | cns ves | soererleew   
Carrying revolver .......--seser fem | DL ] Do fes t) Lo s[  se  
Creating disturbance on! |

ztreet cars sis cesseasenanccnnae treet leases ves QD |eescce scc  cnv  coerce] [esc |  les  
Cruelty to amimals......--- esretee|ces] LD seesee| eetee ferc  sees tel te! Def  
Delinquent child ....................:  MN er n,n |
Drunkeness ........ sec   
Evading carfare.......  ... .cceccetec | Qo fec  ces ] LD Do  | ns[ocsees cer n|
Exposing for sale storage eggs

NOtMALKEM  ...  teefese|co c | |ees  sesneeleereefeseserler teen]  
Fornication. .... .... ss sees co ? QD] QD cceccepecc |c ! senses cc s[ |enl cones  
Fugitive from justice......-..-..)s::+++|ecesee| sores sec oc  sesi  [ec |eesjec ceo |
GAMING ..-- -.  esc ecctew fecc tenecenfresees ble   ce eces coewee| cnc s wo cones  
Hlewal liquor keeping............) | ewes [eet  ene OO l  co OL [     
Indecent ex POsBure.............ce see|eccecc| ts s|ecosee|ecs Lo efes  vessel ......  

Keeping disorderly house......).::-+:).cssea[ereterjs  |  feret  eres  
Keeping gaming house......... -cecce|se e[erores) scence} scene sess: es Ee 
Keeping gaming machine ......)......[-+ sotee|ees|c sennes Oe   ere    
Keepins child from school ...... seo es! OD s secens|svs eesece| sovewe|e lemons reves  
Larceny .....c..ec c t  !  
Larceny from building etnses[erters teles les ) Do jest [ [eres cette   
Malicious Mischief ................./ecesee|ec|ses | Ll ces cec | cesses  ree s  
Neglected child......  ... cecs Jecveseticncce|esoes: QD jevelescsesiassee ye  
Non-support .... . eces | Qo la derrees, Bf DL fi) Lo eel 
Peddling without license .......:  |...) Lo) lees] Lb i. ce| cem |co tens coa   
Practicing medicine without |

being repistered ............,cc {ce[cot  [e ee|ae costae e[e elicesectese!  
Practicing Optometry ....... . sec| LD fes |  [ev |caccesleneens estes | nes | ten ne|  
Receiving stolen goods .n....... .) Lo ficceifec scence [ |   ) wee ssegeefsse feces  
Stubbornes .........  ... es | LD |icceu fewer .. -f ] Qo   ll
Sureties of the peace .......... ..[c e-|ecc | sfecs | see[esc  eneses ] LD feseeq LD]  
Truancy tctetccersn { Qi! QD fec ) feel LD uefa!  
Unlawfully taking team......'...-..|.....- ia jreses|c re| c cn  
Unnatural acts.........  es  ne[ ! Do [e eefessens[s [ecsee| caesar conse ne  
VARFANCY    | UL]  {|  
Violation Automobile Law......,--.:..[..cc.[--ssccfecssee[ | [ec sj sf | 

“ City Ordinance.  ode Df] Dp dc]  
“ Game and Fish Laws)......|......) esc: cesseefecsees| | LD jces fec ] je ]  
“ Labor Law ...... .. . cec|ecc |  oee ce[ ce|cc | Go|  efes  lecs ree]  
“ Oleomargarine Law) ......| |. . ccesce|-ce[sc les cec| se [ooc] sees cence] Park Ordinance ...... ......)e e{scc | cesec|cec | cc c  cfese| Li li ees  
Violating Rules of the Board |

Of Health  eselec sfec s]  [sccscc[ecesse cesses cesesc/es [ecesce ceret |  

Walking on railroad Brake on vevseefec  cere] LO) WD ue]  
' |
TS r

-  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Disposition of Cases Before the Police Court for  .
ft || |
a! oi SS] es] a] iy
Ga  se]
ge E) Ele gal el e] 
. Ci» eg mid) 
el |
Appealed ..........:: s }  Bi... seve |...) |......].. -}  
Bound over to Supreme Court seooe  QD rsscsclese| [ec ]-...--]  
Committ to the ouse ;
Correction .....................-|   
Committed to the House of |
Correction for non-pay- |
ment of fine ..............---|   
Committed to the Industrial |
School for Girls ........pS ees GD (a ns Mn es eS  
Committed to the Lyman |
School for Boys...........++++ seen Lj De LD ple]  lit!  
Committed to the Hampden  
County Truant School...|...... ... -/.... sesseal  sececc|e en|ecs| LL |..c ]  
Committed to the Massachu- |
setts Reformatory ........| |... on sevecete es|eos | Lo] [ fe.  
Committed to the State Board |
Committed to the State Farm |
at Bridgewater............. /-  LD)  Lyell  dof. 
Committed to the Woman's ,; |
Def Reformatory Prison ......|cc  )  sestseieenens |......| |......  
Cfaulted  . ce    ce  eww  con ! LD is |so eiesecce|  n|secces|cocnes cacce| ecc | coo   
Discharied wv cncnnin| vieree Bf  
ismiss seccewscenees cecssces| cec cenceclecsecs cev ,  . e|e e|scs|  
Fined and PBI  neos  cree | |  
Placed on Hil@..-----|    
Probated and discharged.........)  
Released ............... ..e  cesc |  | !  
| ray ‘tae las, one lon |
  iss  M
|

 REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT,  .
Number of women arrested ..................  
Number of women detained ........................ 
Number of insane persons cared for.................  

 
OFFENSES WITH WHICH THEY WERE CHARGED.
Assault and battery ..................  § oLl
Breach of the peace ...  ... ce   
Delinquent child  ...  ce    
Drunkenness  ...        
Fornication  ...  ...   ce    tence  
Illegal liquor keeping ...........  ...      
Keeping disorderly house............ ee    
Larceny...       ees  
Malicions mischief ......  ...ee tees  
Neglected child ......  ...  ee eens  
Stubbornness .....  ...    ce      aD
VaASraney  .ee   teen   eens  
Violation city ordinance ........  ...  ees  
Violation oleomargarine law ...........      DISPOSITION OF CASES.

Appealed oo...          eeas  
Committed to the House of Correetion...............  

Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment of fimes  ... eee    
Committed to the Industrial School for Girls.........  
Committed to the Woman's Reformatory............  
Committed to the State Board of Charity............  
Discharged .......  ... ce  een  
Dismissed  ...   cene   teen   eae ]
Fined and paid .......  ...        
Noll-prossed .........         tee eens  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE |
Placed on file  ...    ee    . 
Probated and diseharged ........ ... ... 
Released oo.  ...             e  
I wish to return thanks to the superior officers and to
the members of the foree for their courteous treatment and
ready co-operation in my work.
Respeetfully submitted,
KATE MOYNIHAN, ,
: Matron.
FINANCIAL REPORT.
Total appropriation ............... -.  
Receipts from police court................  
Receipts from Hainpden County ..............  
Receipts from all other sourees...............  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Pay roll ci...         )  
| Miscellaneous expenses  ...  ...       
$ 
In compliance with provision of the charter, respect. filly reeommend an appropriation for the ensuing year of )
£ .
ITEMS.
Appropriation oo...  ...  ee     
Estimated recelptS  ...        
$ 

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Pay roll oo... .. ce    ees  |
Miscellaneous expenses .........    
$ 
CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.

Ruel R. Nickerson, appointed Marshal January ,
resigned September .

John A. Vachon, Patrolman, was placed on the pension
roll December appointed June .

Richard R. Loweock, Patrolman, resigned, April  ,
 .

APPOINTMENTS.

Arthur E. Standen, appointed Patrolman December  ,
 .

George Hickson, appointed Patrolman December  ,

  .

Patrick J. Sullivan, appointed Patrolman December  ,
 .

Edward H. Ashe, appointed Patrolman December  ,
 .

Archibald R. G. Fletcher, appointed Patrolman December
  ,
John F. Moriarty, appointed Patrolman May .
PROMOTIONS.

Inspector Peter A. Cullen, appointed Chief Inspector
June .

For number of years the annual report of the Police
Department included request for new police building. I
am pleased to say that such building is now in course of
construction and will be ready for oceupaney some time
next year. This will facilitate the equipment of your Police
Department along modern and up to date lines.

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
RECOMMENDATIONS.

I would reeommend the installation of ‘the Gamewell or
some other up to date police signal system. Our present
system Is entirely unsatisfactory.

I would recommend that the department be provided
with the Bertillon system of measurements and the finger
print system for the identifieation of eriinals.

I would suggest the purchase of five-passenger automobile for the use of the department; occasions requiring
the use of an automobile are becoming more frequent every
day.

I would also recommend gyvimnasium for the use of

) the members of this department. am satisfied that proper
and regtiar exereise under the guidanee of competent instructor would develop better and more active type of
policeman, thereby increasing the efficiency of the service.

CONCLUSION.

I wish to express my thanks to His Honor the Mayor,
the Judge and Clerk of the Police Court, for the many favors and courtesies extended to me during the year.

I also wish to convey my sincere thanks to all officers
and patrohnen of the department who have faithfully performed their duties.

Respeetfully submitted,
PATRICK HERBERT,
Acting Marshal.

 Report of the City Treasurer
Holyoke, Mass., December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:
Gentlemen :—I have the honor to present to you the
annual report for the fiscal year  .
; Receipts Expenditures
Revenue sources ............  
Non-revenue sources .........  
Gas Elec. Light Plant......   .
Total ..................  
Cash balance Dee. .....  
Cash balance Nov. ...  
|  
The amounts received from various revenue sources
were charged and credited to the following accounts:
Receipts Expenditures
Alleys,  
Assessors,  
Board of Health,  
Bd. of Public Works Contingent,  
Bd. of: Public Works Salaries,  
Building Inspection,  
City Engineer Department,  
City Farm Additions,  
City Property,  
Contagious Disease Hospital,  
Contingent,  

. REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
Receipts Expenditures
Corporation Tax Business,  
Corporation Tax Public Service, 
Commonwealth of Mass., for Soldiers’

Relief and State and Military Aid,  

City Hall Rentals,  
City Debt Direct,  
City Debt H. W. R. R. Stock,  
City Debt Temp. Loans Ant. Taxes,  
County Tax, 
Div. H. &W. R. R. Stock,  

Dog Tax,  
Fire Department,  
Forestry Department,  
Fuel Department,  
- Mighways and Bridges,  
Holvoke Pubhe Library,  

| Holyoke St. Railway Excise Tax,  
Highways Permanent Works,  
Interest High St. Engine House,  
; Interest on City Debt,  

Interest on Daily Balances,  
Interest on H. W. R. R. Bonds,  
Interest on Temporar yLoans,  
Lighting,  
Liquor Licenses,  
, Military Aid Civil War,  
Miscellaneous Licenses,  
National Bank Tax,  
Overlayings,  
Overlayings 
Park Department,  
Police Department,  
Plav grounds,  
Relief Department,  
School Janitors’ Salaries,  
School Janitors’ Supplies,  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  

| Receipts Expenditures

Salaries,  

Soldiers’ Relief,  

School Department Salaries,  

School Department Supplies,  

Sewer Department,  

Sidewalk Department,  

Street Watering,  

State Aid Civil War,  

State Aid Spanish War,  

Soldiers’ Burial,  

State Tax,  

State Highway Tax,  

Street Railway Tax,  

Sealer of Weights and Measures,  

Sewers Permanent Works,  

Sidewalks Permanent Works,  

Tuberculosis Hospital,  

Taxes on Holyoke Water Works, 

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  ,

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll,  

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll,  

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Taxes  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Interest  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Interest  .M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Interest  J. M. Kennedy, Coll,  

Interest  J. M. Kennedy, Coll.,  

Interest  J. M. Kennedy, Coll., .

Interest  J. M. Kennedy, Coll, ]

Sewers  P. B. Coll.,  

Sewers  P. B. Coll.,  

Sewers  P. B. Coll.,  

Sewers  P. B. Coll.,  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
. Receipts Expenditures
Sidewalks  P. B. Coll.,  
Sidewalks  P. B. Coll.,  
Sidewalks  P. B. Coll.,  
Sidewalks  P. B. Coll.,  
‘Sidewalks  P. B. Coll.,  
Sidewalks  P. B. Coll.,  
Sidewalks  P. B. Coll.,  
Wiring Inspection,  
Wiring Inspection,  
Water Rent,  
Municipal Sinking Fund Commission,  
$  
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FROM NONREVENUE SOURCES.
Receipts Expenditures
School and Pol. Bldg. Loan,  
( Serial Bonds, 
Municipal Loan,  Serial Bonds,  
H.& W.R.R. Loan,  Ser. Bonds,  
Municipal Loan,  Serial Bonds,  
Municipal Loan,  Ser. Bonds,  
Premium on Loans, 
Mun. Sinking Fund Commission,  
Holyoke Water Works,  
Interest Water Debt,  
Int. Cemetery Fund Depostis,  
Whiting Street Fund,  
Sale of High St. Engine House,  
Mun. and Police Building,  
Bridges Construction,  
Eentral Engine House,  
Permanent Highways,  
New High School,  
$  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR GAS AND ELEC.
TRIC LIGHT PLANT.
Receipts Expenditures
Gas and Elec. Dept.,  
Gas and Elec. Extensions,  
Gas and Elec. Interest,  
Gas and Elec. Und. Conduits,  
Gas and Elec. Depreciation,  
City Debt for Gas and Elec. Plant,  
$  
' BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER .
Dr.
Gas and Electric Light Plant, 
Real Estate (as valued by Assessors),  
Hol. W. R. R. Stock (par value),  
Holyoke Water Commission,  
Mun. Sinking Fund Comm.,  
| Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes  .
J. M. Kennedy ,Coll. Taxes 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes 
J. M. Kennedy, Coll. Taxes 
Holyoke Water Works, ,
Sidewalk Assessments 
Sidewalk Assessments 
Sidewalk Assessments 
Sidewalk Assessments 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER .
Sidewalk Assessments 
Sidewalk Assessments  
Sidewalk Assessments 
Sewer Assessments 
Sewer Assessments 
Sewer Assessments 
Sewer Assessments 
Sewer Assessments 
Sewer Assessments 
Cemetery Fund Deposits,  
Overlayings,  
Gas and Elec. Dept.,  
Cash on hand,  

$ 

BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER .
Cr.

City of Holyoke, 
City Debt Direct, 
City Debt Direct Ex. by Legis., . 
City Debt Gas and Elee. Plant, }
City Debt Hol. Water Works,  
City Debt I. W. R. R. Stock,  
City Debt Temp Loans Ant. Taxes,  
Cemetery Funds,  
Whiting Street Fund,  
Sinking Fund for City Debt,  
Sink. Fund for Hol. Water Bonds,  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  

G. E. Ren. Ext. Und. Conduits,  
Gas and Elec. Extensions,  
App. for Municipal Bonds,  
Assessors’ Maps,  
City Farm Additions,  
Contagious Disease Hospital,  
Sewer Assessments,  
Sidewalks Assessments,  
Sewers Permanent Works,  
Highways Permanent Works,  
Park Land,  
Bridges Construction,  
Fire Dept. Auto Equipment,  
Contingent,  
Fire Department,  
Gas and Elee. Light Plant Deprec.,  
Park Department,  
Rehef Department,  
Military Aid Civil War,  
New High School,  
Soldiers’ Burial,  
Municipal and Police Building,  
Central Engine House,  
Overlayings 
) 

BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—EXHIBIT A.
Showing the aggregate amount maturing each year.
——City Debt Direct —
Issued for Issued for Issued for Payable by
Payable H. W. Water G. E. Sinking Serial
in Stock Works Works Fund Loans Total
     , ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   
»  ,   ,   , ,   ,   , , , , , 
$  
Sink.F.*  
Net Dt.  
*Holyoke Westfield R. R. Stock at par value. +Surplus.

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—EXHIBT B.
GENERAL PURPOSES.
Yearly
Date Issued. Rate. Years. Pay’ts. Payable. Amounts.
May ,  May  
August   August 
March   March 
August   August 
April   April 
April  April 
April  &G April 
March   March 
July  July 
May  May 
May  May 
April  &# April 
October   Oct. 
June  June 
June  June 
Nov.  mos May 
$ 
- SCHOOLS.
May   May 
Sept.  Sept. 
April  April 
April  April 
Sept.  Sept. 
May  May 
April   April 
$ 
SCHOOLS.
June  Q& *Sept. 
July  *July 
March  *March 
June  June 
$ 
BRIDGES. )
June  *June 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—Continued.
Yearly
Date Issued. Rate. Years. Pay’ts. Payable. Amounts.
PARKS. ;
April  April 
May  May 
March   March 
May  May 
$ 
*To be paid by Sinking Fund.
SEWERS.
May   May 
August  August 
April  April 
May May 
Mareh  March 
$ 
GAS AND ELECTRIC.
Dec.  Dec. 
Nov.  Nov. 
April  April 
Sept.   Sept. 
April  April 
April  April 
April  April 
March  &G March 
Feb.  Feb. 
$ 
WATER WORKS.
June  *June 
July  *July 
July   July 
$ 
HOL. W. R. R.
July  G&G July 
*To be paid by Sinking Fund.

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  

General Purposes ............ 
Schools ......................  
Parks ....... cc      —
Sewers wo...      
City Debt Direct .................... ...+.  
Schools ...............e ++++ 
Schools ......................  
Bridges ..................+.++.  
City Debt Exempt by Spee. Act of Legis.....  
Gas and Electric Plant....................  
Water Works ........  ... cc ce   ce   
Holvoke Westfield R. R........  ...  

Total Debt ..........................  

SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE.
Valued by the Board of Assessors in  .
School Buildings and Land.

Brick School Houses:
Lyman and Center Streets.....+ ........... 
East Dwight and Center Streets............  
West Street ......  ...      
Hamilton Street .........  ...       
Morgan School (Bridge Street)............  
South Sargeant Street ................  
Hamilton and Park Streets................  
Main and Papineau Streets................  
Elm Street .........    t   
Maple and Appleton Streets...............  
Sargeant and Chestnut Streets.............  
High School, Pine, Sargeant, Bh and

Hampshire Streets .............  
Carlton Street .........          

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER
School Street (Ewingville) ................ |
Carlton and South Streets.................  
Nonotuck Street ...........      
Nonotuck, Lincoln, Waldo and Allyn Streets  
William Whiting School (Chestnut Street)..  
Ingleside .......  ... cc       West Holyoke (wooden) ..................  
Kirtland (Sargeant Street) ...............  
Smiths Ferry School ..................  
Joseph Metcalf School (Northampton Street)  
High School Gymnasium (Sargeant, Pine,
Bh and Hampshire) ...............  
$ 
Engine Houses and Land.
Engine Houses:
Chestnut Street ...  ... cc      
Canal Street ...  ... ce   ene  
Main Street...  ... cc      
South Street ...  ... ce   
High Street .......  ...     eens  
Hampden Street  ...         es  
Temple Street  ...  ...     
$ 
Miscellaneous.
City Hall Building, High and Dwight Streets 
Hillside Hospital, Jarvis Avenue ...........  
City Farm, House and Barn, Ingleside......  
Barns and Sheds, Commercial Street........  
Isolation Hospital and Pumping Station.....  
$ 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER  
Gas and Electric Plant. |
Gas and Water Gas Buildings, Lyman Street 
Electric Light Station, Cabot Street........  
Gasometer, Bridge Street............... ..  
Gas Holder and Boiler House, Canal Street.  
$ 
Parks.

Hampden Park, Hampden, Maple, Chestnut
and Dwight Streets ................ 
Prospect Park, Prospect Street ............  

Canonchet Park, Bowers, Samosett, West and
Pequot Streets .........          
Hamilton Park, Sargeant Street ...........  

Germania Park, Bridge, Park and Jackson
StreetS ....         
Ranger Park, Appleton and Suffolk Streets...  

Ewing Park, Appleton, Pleasant and Dwight
Streets .....   ees  
Coghlan Park, Crescent and Park Streets...  
Elmwood Park, Elmwood .................  
Springdale Park, Main Street .............  
Laurel and Willow Street Triangle.........  
Highland Park .............     ees  
$ 

Land.

Jefferson Street .........    ees 
Pearl Street and Madison Avenue..........  
Jefferson Street and Madison Avenue.......  

East Jefferson Street and North Madison
AVENUC.,  ...  ect  teeta  
Madison Avenue and Pearl Street..........  
Kast Side of Pearl Street..................  
Madison Avenue and Peral Street..........  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER |
East and West Side Pleasant Street, west of

Dingle ........ cc        
Gravel Pit (Ingleside) ....................  
Gravel Pit (Springdale) ..................  
Cemetery (Smiths Ferry) .................  

| 
Playgrounds.
Samosett, Winter and Pequot Streets....... 
Hampden, E. and W. Oak Street...........  
Cabot, Maple, Hampshire and Chestnut Streets  
$ 
Summary.
School Buildings and Land................  
Engine Houses and Land ..................  
Miscellaneous  ... cc       
Parks ..  ...    cc        
Land  ...     
Plavgrounds ........  ...       
: 
Gas and Electric Light Plant.............. 
: 
Respectfully submitted,
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,
City Treasurer.

I have examined the books of the City Treasurer, and I
hereby certify that the above report of Cash Receipts, Authorized Expenditures, Ledger Balanees and Cash on Hand
and in Banks is correct.

WALTER W. EATON,
Certified Public Accountant.

Report of the City Auditor
To the Honorable, the Mavor and Board of Aldermen:

Gentlemen :—I present herewith the annual statement
of the receipts and expenditures for the fiseal year  in
the form and manner required by the State of Massachusetts.

I have audited the accounts of the Water Department,
Gas and Electric Department, found them eorrect, the receipts properly recorded and promptly deposited and the
expenditures approved in due form. The Tax Collector’s
books and entries have been audited so far as possible.
The postings’ here reach the thousands and as each is separately cheeked it takes quite while to complete his accounts. The report also contains detailed report of the
expenditures in the Contingent Account, City Indebtedness,
Sinking Funds and Tax Collector’s exhibit, the bonds issued
during the year with the purpose for which they were issued,
the cash on hand and the borrowing capacity.

There was  borrowed during the vear for the |
following purposes: Fire Department auto apparatus, sewers construction, sidewalks construction,
$ highways construetion, municipal and
police building, new high school, central engine house, refunding Ilolvoke Westfield
R. R. debt, and  to meet deficits as follows:
Alleys, highways, rehef, sewers, general receipts, .

Payments of the city debt and additions to the sinking
fund during the vear were as follows: City debt. serial
bonds, citv debt from sinking fund, Gas
and Electrie Plant debt, Holvoke Westfield R. R.
debt, serial, water debt, serial, water debt

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
from sinking funds, Holyoke Westfield R. R.
debt, payments to city debt sinking funds,  and earnings Water Department sinking
fund earnings, grand total payments and earnings, Total bonds issued, excess of
loans over payments, The net debt is an increase over of .

The borrowing capacity is decrease of  over that of  .

, Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

Digitized by Google |

{
|
- co —

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A—I. |
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE YEAR  .
Cash balances Dec. ........... +- 
*Actual receipts during the year.. 
Sinking fund earnings for year...  
$ 
*Actual expenditures during year.  
Cash balance Dec. ............ --++ 
*Omitting duplications and service transfers.
SCHEDULE A—II.
ACTUAL FINANCIAL RESULT OF THE OPERATION AND
 MAINTENANCE OF THE CITY FOR THE YEAR.
Revenue receipts from taxation and other sources (excluding money bororwed)......... 
Papments—Maintenance, operating expenses....  
Excess of revenue receipts .......... ..-  
OUTLAYS.
Receipts—Money borrowed, premiums and outlay
Offsets ..  ...eewe we weeee   es  
Payments—Outlays (permanent work) temporary  oamB .......   weee wee  
Excess of non-revenue receipts........... 
TEMPORARY ACCOUNTS.
Receipts—State, county, etc., taxes, refunds and
transfers.  ... ce et tete   es 
Payments—State, county, etc., taxes, refunds and
transfers ...  ... ct  te te  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—III. |
EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES GROUPED
ACCORDING TO THEIR FUNCTIONS.
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION.
|
Revenue Payments

Sn
TaxeS ...... cc   ttes /............
Licenses and Permits...........  ). ...........
Fines and Forfeits..............  )............
Grants and Gifts...............  }...........Privileges ..  ... cc    ee  )...  ...ee
General Government ............ 
Protection, Life and Property.....  
Health and Sanitation...........  
Highways and Bridges...........  
Charities ......... c   
Soldiers’ Benefits ...............  
Education .......  ...ee   
Libraries  ...  ...ee twlere ew we es  
Recreation ....  ... wee ees  
Unclassified ............ 
Public Service Enterprises.......  
Interest  ...       
Municipal indebtedness .........]....-.- 
Sinking Funds .............e..  
— TT sa

Total pessteseersce sess]  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
OUTLAYS—PERMANENT WORK.
SS
Receipts Payments
Special Assessments ............ /......... 
General Government ............/.. .-   
Protection Life and Property.....  
Health and Sanitation...........  
Highways and Bridges...........  
Charities seen    
Education ......  ...weeew ele eRe ecw    
Recr ation .......we tw ele we        
Public Service Enterprises........[.........  
Municipal Indebtedness .......  
a
|
Total ois ees sees] , 
ee
TEMPORARY ACCOUNTS.
a
| Receipis Payments

Agency Trust, Investment, ete. ..|  
Refunds .......... ce we we    
TransferS ........ cc     ees  
el
Total ... e  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Revenue Receipts |
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays |
i
General Revenue.
Taxes. ,
Current year: |
Property ..........e- )... ......  cfeew we wees
Poll ......... ce ewes T, )..... etele ew ew ew we ee
Water Dept. Taxes....  /.....ee ele ww wwe es
Previous years:
Property ............-/e  ]............].  ...   
Poll ........ cc   ]........ ele wee nce 
From the State:
Corporation .........  ]... ......  ...)ee ees
Street Railway .......  ).........  ... le we wweens
Bank ........  )... le we weee ee
Total from Taxes..... /............ 
Licenses and Permits.
Liquor ........... /........... ].    
Amusements ...........  ]... .........].  wc 
Auctioneers ...........  ]... .....  ... fee ew ew wc ee
Carriages ............. }........  ... feee ew ces
Express ..........  )... ... le tee ec  
Intelligence Offices ..... }.... wee   le w ces
Junk ... e |......    leeewe 
Pawnbrokers ..........  /............]. cc cw  
Peddlers ..............  /............].  ... ce   ee
Pool, Billiard and Bowling Alleys ..........] ;....... ele ecwe   ee
Second Hand ..........  )... .... ce ele ew wwes
Milk ..... e ]. ......  ce eleee  ee
Oleomargarine ......... Pa as
Undertakers ........... TOO)...  ele we wtee  
Sausage manufacturing. ;.....ee elewe ec ee
Tar Roofers ........... ZOO)...   ele  cc  ee
Dry Goods ............ OO) rs
Itinerant Vendors ...... ZO. ;...  ...   ew elewc cc wc  
Total from Licenses
and Permits ....... /............ 
| |
 Total forward re ]. seer 
SSO Eee

REPORT OF CitTY AUDITOR  
RECEIPTS—LClassified.
SS   nent
. |
Revenue Receipts
Sources of Receipts for for Total
. Expenses Outlays
eePam
 Total forward ......| |.....-.-.-.-| 
Fines and Forfeits.
Court .....     evee /....  ele re   eens
Department Penalties ...]...  ...  ele reer     eleee   ees
Total from Fines and
Forfeits ........-..-. )...........- 
Grants and Gifts.
From State, aid to Industrial School ......... )... wc we ce elewee eens
From County (Dog LicenBCS) .. cc cc     ]... cc eleee ee
Gifts from Individuals:
Whiting Street Fund..  ]... cc cele   
Total from Grants and| |
Gifts .............| ,......... 
All Other Gen’l Revenue.
Commercial Revenue. ,
Special Assessments:
Sewer Assessments ...|............ )............
Sidewalk and Curbing
Assessments .......[...-  }........ -.Total from Special AsAssessmentS .......[...   
Privileges. |
Public Service ......... )... ele cwee es
Total from Privileges.. |......... .- 
i

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
en Tr

| 
Revenue Receipts
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays
a
Total forward .......| . 
|
Departmental.
General Government.
Legislative:
Aldermen— |
Executive:
Mayor—
Financial:
Auditor and Auditing—
Treasurer— ‘
Collector—
Assessors—
' Other Finance Officers .
and Accounts—
Other General Depts.: —
City Clerk—
City Messenger—
Law—
General Gov’t forward.|...........c].  le secer’s
eS |
Total forward .......|$ ] 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified. .
| 
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Departmental.
General Government.
Legislative:
Aldermen—
Salaries and Wages. /........  ... lewe ewee
Other Expenses ....  )...  ... le ww wt we cw ee
Executive: |
Mavor—
Salaries and Wages. )... ...  ...ele we te we ees
Other Expenses ....  ]... ce le we ew weee
Financial:
Auditor and Auditing—
Salaries and Wages.  )... ...  ele  
Other Expenses ....  )...ew ele we wc weee
Expert Auditing .... AZ ]....  ...  eelwe wee ts
Treasurer—
Salaries and Wages.  /.......  ...  c]. ww we
Other Expenses ....  )...ele weee es
Collector—
Salaries and Wages.  /........... cde    ee
Other Expenses ....  ]... .......  ...ee we
Assessors—
Salaries and Wages.  ]/..........  ]...   we ee
Other Expenses ....  ]...  ...  ... cele weew ee
License Commiss’n’s—.
Salaries and Wages.  /............/...  
Other Expenses ....  )
Other Finance Officers
and Accounts—
Sinking Fund Com’rs  ]/.........  ]... ee  
Miscellaneous ......  ;............;.  ... cwwee
Other General Depts.:
Law—
Salaries and Wages.  )... .....  ...  ee ee
Other Expenses ....  )... ..... cle we   
City Clerk—
Salaries and Wages.  |......   ees ences
Other Expenses ....  ]...  ... celeee 
General Gov’t forward. rr  ec eae
eo |
 Total forward .......[...   fee   tee ef ut n

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
i rs
Revenue Receipts |
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays
| |
| Total forward .......| . 
General Gov’t forward.|.... fecec{ ses s
Election and Registra- )
tion—
License Commission—
Public Works— |
Insurance upon autos ). ......  ...ee we es
Engineering—
Miscellaneous ......  
|
All Other Depts.—
Municipal Buildings—
|
City Hall Rentals... /..........  ].ee    
Total from Gen.  )............ 
Protection of Life and
Property.
Police Department:
Transportation insane. ,............)  
Sale of Materials..... ae wc ew 
Protection of Life and
Property forward .. |............). .
a |
Total forward .......! . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
m     —w vm"

Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
|
a
Total forward. ......eje    fe   et   ete settee
Gen. Gov’t forward... )...   ele   
City Messenger:
Salaries and Wages...|  )...  ... ce   ele     eres
Other Expenses ...... AL Z. [.. cc ec ew eleww es
Public Works:
Salaries and Wages...  [....  ele  wees
Other Expenses ......  rr
Engineering:
Salaries and Wages...  /. ..    ele eweees
Other Expenses ...... ... cc cw ww elewt we    
Supt. of Buildings:
Salaries and Wages... LOTE. ).   ww ele   
Other Expenses ...... LIBG. )... ele ewes
Election and Registrat’n:
Salaries and Wages...  )... leeeees
Other Expenses ......  )...ee fee   
Other General Depts.:... |
Municipal Buildings: |
City Hall ........   le we    |......... ..
Salaries and Wages.  )...ele ew te wwe
Other Expenses ....  ]...dee ewee .
Total for Gen. Gov’t... 
|
Protection of Life and
Property.
Police Department: .
Salaries and Wages... SL, ).  ...ee deeees ,
Horses, care of same.. sp se Ue
Equipment and repairs  ... elewe ww ee
Pensions ............  ]... celeetees
Other Expenses ...... PS Ss)a
Protection of Life and
Property forward .. ]... ...  ... ce eleeeee
Total forward .......| ] 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Revenue Receipts |
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays
|
Total forward .......| . 
|
Protection of Life and| |
Property forward  oes
| !
Fire Department: |
Sale of Materials... .| DOOST oc.we ele      
| |
Sale of Bldg. and Site.|............  /............
Materials vo  ibece  ,  )......... -.
|
“ees |
Militia: |
|
|
Inspection: |
|
Sealer Wts. and Meas..| ok  rs
| |
Forestry: |
Other Protection Life and|
Property:
Bounties .......... UO
Total from Protection
Life and Property...  pen sb  
Total forward .......| . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAY MENTS—Classified.
One ——————————
|
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward . 
| |
Protection of Life and
Property forward ..  ]... ...   cede    ee
Fire Department: |
Salaries and Wages...  ]... ec   le ee
Horses, care of same..  ).ele  ee ne
Equipment and Repairs  ]... .. ele      
Hydrant Service .....  )... ewe wweleeeteen
Fuel and Light.......  )... cc we we ele     
Maintenance of Buildings and Grounds...  ]...  ...eleee 
New Buildings .......|... e-   /......... Pensions ............  [.   ewe elewe we we ee
Other Expenses ...... ST ). eleewe we
Militia:
Rifle Ranges ........  )...  ...   eleee te wt ws
. |
Inspection:
Inspection of Buildings  )...ele 
Inspection of Wires...  )... ec ce fewe  
Sealing Wts. and Meas.  ]...  ... eleee   ene
Forestry:
Insect Pest Extermination .............. 
Planting and Trimming
Trees ....... .-  ... ew le we we we ww ww we
Forest Fires ........  ). ......  ]. .ewe we ce
Other Protection Life and
Property:
Bounties .......... OO rr
Total for Protection of
Life and Property.. 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
- |
Revenue Receipts
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays
Total forward .......| . 
Health and Sanitation.
| |
|
Health: |
, Quarantine and Contagious Diseases ..... )...  ... cc de   we wt ee
Tuberculosis .........  ]. ....  ... cele te ww we we ees
Board of Health—Dis- 
tilled Water .......  )... ew eleew et ww es
, |
| |
Inspection: |
|
Sanitation:
Sewers and Sewage Disposal .............  ]... .......  ... ecw ec ee
Sewer Construction ..]............  )... cewe
Refuse and Garbage
Disposal ..........  )... ..  ... cc le ees
Street Cleaning oor anne a
| |
Other Health and Sanita-| |
tion: |
Total from Health and
Sanitation ......... 
ST en neem ewe   ene a
Total forward .......|  . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
 
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
en nn ara wel —sy  one  
Alley :
Bridg "
Conta
City .
City
City ae :
Fuel ae .
Fores
Light :
Higha
High |
Publi  
Publi ;
*Play .
Sewe ct cs
Sewe Oo oe
Side ae
Side ye a, |
Stree|
Wate City Ce
Cent ,
High mo
Sewe re 
Sidew@ a
*Play
w"Wanitation ........ , .
Total forward .......| | :

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Se  
, |
Revenue Receipts
.. Sources of Receipts  for for Total
aty .
‘' ot .
rom Heaitn ang os
ation...  ... ee!  
a
torward wee, 
a,

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.

  ce cree — na ''V oar

Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
a

"Total forward .......| ] 

| |

Health and Sanitation. |

| ,

Health: .
General Administration ]. eres ere
Quarantine and Conta- |

gious Diseases .....|  )...    eleeeee  
Tuberculosis .........|  |. cwele wee wee ee
Vital Statistics .......  [...... ccele  ee  
Other Expenses .......  )... cc ec cc ele ww tw we te we
Milk Station ........  ]. cc ce eleee ens
Bateriologist ........ ]. .. ce  ww elewe wwe ns
Sanitary Inspector ... LOOO.O }. .. eleee    

Inspection: |

Inspection of School
Children ..........  ).  ele ew teete
Inspection of Animals. ZO |.  ... ew ewele re wwe eevee
Inspection of Meat and
Provisions ........  LO ... ele re      
Inspection of Milk and
; Vinegar ..........  )... ce ec eleeeee
Inspection of Ice......  )... .. cw   wf ww we we ew ee
Inspection of Plumbing  )...    feee we ewe
Sanitation:
Sewer Maintenance and
Operation ......... B, ]. .. wcde we wee  
Sewer Construction ..|............  )............
Refuse and Garbage
Disposal ..........  B,  )... feee te ee
Street Cleaning ......  ]...we ele te we et  
Other Health and Sanitation: —
Sanitaries and Public
Convenience Stations
Total for Health and |
Sanitation .........  |
|

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
a

Revenue Receipts |
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays
|
a
Total forward   $ 
Highways.  |
General ..............|  /..... c.feeee  
Construction ...........f.-......-.  |............
Sidewalks and Curbing..  /............
Snow and Ice Removals s|errersrsress es
Sprinkling: |
Water ........... ..|  )...   feee  
| |
ae |
Lighting  ...   cele   ele   ele neee 
Miscellaneous ad i
Total from Highways... BE . 
Charities. |
City Farm: |
scale of Products ..... SO T.T I. Leeleee 
Boord .......Poot no ett
Miscellaneous ........]....   /............
Reimbursements:
From Individuals ....  
From other Cities and
Towns ............  ). ....  ...  le  
From the State.......  ). ....  ...  ].  ce ewe  
Total from Charities... 
 Total forward ......./ . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  !
PAY MENTS—Classified.
a ee
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
 Total forward .......|  ) 
| |
Highways. |
General Administration )... ele ew etes
General Highway Expen- @itures .............  ). ....  ...  ele ew ewes
Construction ........  ...ee    /............
Sidewalks and Curbing... )........ .
Snow and Ice Removal.. .|  ]... ..  celeweee
Sprinkling:
Water ........     ). Lelete  
Other ..........  )...eleew ewee
Lighting ..............  )... ..  ...  leeeens
| |
Other Expenses: |
Signs, Guide Boards| |
and Street Numbers Sr
Other Sundry Expenses|  )...  ... epeeee  
| |
Total for ions 
|
| |
Charities. |
General Administration  rn
City Farm ............ ... .........
Outside Relief by City and| |
TOWN  ...ee      ). ......  )... 
Relief Given by Other
Cities and Towns .... TD   
Repairs, City Farm.....  |/.......  ]. ce   
Fuel, City Farm........  ...... ce eleeeees
Lighting, City Farm.....  )...... ......]  ...   
Water, City Farm.......|  /............/. ce  
Whiting Street Fund....  eve f  eens |
Total for Charities. ... icaned  
Total forward .......| ! 
    see Ss ess ae

. REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
i |
| Revenue Receipts |
Sources of Receipts for for Total
| Expenses Outlays )
|
Total forward wee   , 
Soldiers’ Benefits. |
State Aid. .............  |........  ele we wwwwe
Military Aid ........... |...  cw we ew ele we ew we wt  
Soldiers’ Burials ....... |..  le a s
Soldiers’ Relief ...... el. te we te ele tw ww te tt ew tle wetw we  
Total from Soldiers’
Benefits ........... )............ 
ATT
|
Education. |
Tuition and Transportation of State Wards.../.......... cle  ween   ele  ececace
Other Tuition .........  /.........  ... we
Sale of Text Books and
Supplies ............  ). .........  ]e wees
Miscellaneous ....  ... [eo  ele    tee le wee  cc  
Rental School Hall......].  ;............] occ e ee
Total from casa. aan aan 
Libraries. |
ee |
Total forward .......| . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—LClassified.
    ee
|
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total .
| es a
Total forward ......-| ] 
Soldiers’ Benefits. |
General Administration: :
State Aid ...........  [.... ele reer   ees
Military Aid ........ S|) es a
Soldiers’ Burials ..... Gk)rr
Soldiers’ Relief ......  [..... cc le we      
Total for Soldiers’ Ben@fitS co. Ceee es /........ 
|
at
|
Education. |
General Expenses:
Administrative Salaries  )... .. cc ewe cele re ere  
Other General Salaries.  ]... ce wee   er ew we
Other General Expenses  )... weele ww wee  
Teachers’ Salaries ......  )... cc ww lee we we we ees
Text Books and Supplies.  ).  ... ecww ele wwe rw ween
Tuition .......--c.   
Transportation .........  ]... cc ecw ew fe   ew cw es
Support of Truants......  ]...   ww ww ele ww weeens
Janitors’ Services ......  ]... ce cw ecw ele were   rene
Fuel and Light ........  ]... cc ccfe weet wens
Maintenance of Buildings
and Grounds ........  ]... cc eleee we ee
New Buildings .........[..  ecves  )... .. 
Furniture and Furnish’gs  ]...  ...   ede tee we ew ws
Other Expenses ........  ]...   wwe ele we wee
Matrons and Baths......  )...ew ww eleew etees
Total for Education... 
Libraries. |
Appropriation .........  /...........  ]... ec   we
Total for Libraries.... ;............ 
Total forward .......| ] 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
SSS  
Revenue Receipts
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays
| ;

Total forward .......| . 
Recreation.

Parks and Gardens..... Or
Playgrounds and Gymna- .

  cs cs
Bathhouses ............].    cclence cen  eslucn
Celebrations and  Entertainments .......... foc cc ce cele  ec  le ce   ew cceae

Total from Recreation. )......... 
Unclassified. |
Receipts not recorded under previous classificationS ............ .. SO

|———

Total from Unclassified] }/............ 
a |
 Total forward .......| . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
\ PAYMENTS—Classified.
a aS  
| |
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
es
Total forward .......| | 
|
Recreation.
General Administration:
Salaries and Wages... yy Oy  
Other Expenses ...... )... cc ww we we ele we wree ene
Parks and Gardens:
Salaries and Wages...ee re a
Improvements and AdditionS .......-. cele  ere ees  ]............Other Expenses .......|  )...   weeele   
Playgrounds and GymnaBiuM:  ...ee   |
Salaries and Wages...  ]. ww fe ewee es
Improvements and AdGitionS .......  ce ele weee wee |.....  
Other Expenses ......[..    ele       elem      
Bathhouses:
Improvements and Additions ...........  [. ...   we eleee   ee
Other Expenses ......  )... weeleeeee
Celebrations and  Enter- ;
tainments:
Fourth of July....... BOO.OO].  ww cewe ele te ew   tes
Band Concerts .......  Ss
Total for Recreation.  
ee |
Unclassified. .
Damages to Persons and
Property ............ BB ). le weet es
Memorial Day .........  /......... |e ew we we ewe
City Clocks ........... DO. /......   eleee ewe es
Payments not recorded
under previous classifications .............  ]...le cc tewee
Total for Unclassified.. )............ Total forward... , 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Nee ———— een nee
Revenue Receipts |
Sources of Receipts for for Total
Expenses Outlays
ee en
Total forward .......| . 
|
Public Service Enterprises
Electric: |
Income from Sale of
Light and Power....  )... ew wwe   ele re wre renee
Miscellaneous ........ Se ee
Gas:
Income from Sale of
GaS ......    ]... wwe ew ele wee wee  
Sale of By-products
(Coke, Tar, etc.)... Hr .) es
MiscellaneouS ...... cleee ce  tele tee     tele wee   teens
Water:
Income from Sale of
Water .........  ]... ewwe le ewee we wes
Miscellaneous ........ B,O ]. .. ew we ele ww wee 
Interest on Deposits... A
Total from Public Service Enterprises ... /............ Total forward .......| . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
en Ne
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
a ey
Total forward .......| | 

Public Service Enterprises
Electric:
Maintenance and Operation ...... )...  ...  leee wee eens
Construction ........-f   reese  )...........Interest Payments .... ee eleweees
Bond Payments ......  ]...  ...  eleeeene
Gas:
Maintenance and Oper- )
ation .......... ..  )... cc ele ew ewe 
Construction .........-|.   eens  |............
Interest Payments ....  )... ..  ... feee 
Bond Payments ......  ).  ele wete wee
Water:
Maintenance and Operation .........  ... ccele we wwene
Construction .........[. cc   eens  /....... cw
Taxes to City of Holyoke .........  |... cc  elec      
Interest ........-  ]. ...  ... ecw ele we we   es
Bond Payments ...... Z, ]. .. cc cw we ele etwe ew es
Total for Public Service
Enterprises ........ 
Total forward .......| . 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Revenue Receipts’ |
Sources of Receipts for for Total
| Expenses Outlays
Pe
Total forward .......| . 
|
Interest.
On Deposits ...........  ]...  ...  ... celewewee
On Deferred Taxes......  ]... cc ele we   ees
On Sinking Funds......[.........   ecw ew eelececce es
On Investment Funds....  /.........  cle ne   we  
Total from Interest... 
Municipal Indebtedness. |
Loans in Anticipation of
TaxeS ..... cc eleee   ens  /............
Loans for General PurPOSES ........  ewele wet   wees  ]............
Loans for Public Service
Enterprises ..........].  ...  cele    c ee  
Bonds Refunded, Current
Year, H. W. R. R.
Bonds .............c]ee ecec   );............
Premiums .............[...... -.   vaes
Total from Municipal
Indebtedness ....../............ , 
ee
Total forward .......| , 
eeee

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
. PAY MENTS—Classified.
a
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
; a
Total forward .......| .  
Interest.
On Temporary Loans....  ]... .... cc  fe were neces
On Loans for Public SerPurposes ........-. .:  )... ce   eleewer renee
On Loans for Public Ser- |
vice Enterprises ..... B, (.....     eleee   ewes
On High St. Engine House
Site ...... ee ]... ele weee  
Total for Interest.... /......... 
a SS
|
Municipal Indebtedness.
Loans in Anticipation of
TaxeS ...   elem wee      /...........Bonds and Notes from
Sinking Fund:
General .......-.ce|e even vees  |...........Public Service Enter| () :): }............
Bonds and Notes from
Revenue:
General ..........  )...  ... eww edewe we ee
Public Service Enterprises ............  )... .. cc ewe ele we we we ee
Bonds Refunded, Current
Year occ cc cc e ele     ]......... .
Total for Municipal Indebtedness ........ ; 
Total forward .......| , 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified. |
ee
amv  
Revenue
Sources of Receipts. for Non-Revenue Total
Expenses
dt
Total forward .......| , 
Sinking Funds.
From Commissioners to .
meet Loans for General
Purposes .......eeeler     )..........-.-.Public Service Enterprises|............  |........ }
Total from Sink’g F’ds.|..........  
$  ssanoenst
a
Temporary
Accounts
Agency, Trust and Investment Transactions.
Agency: ‘
Taxes—State ........  ...wee ees ]............
Non-resident Bank .........  ]......... .County ....  eeee }. ....... Liquor Licenses collected for State...  ). ..... es
Trust:
Perpetual Care Funds ...........  )... ..  we ee
Private Trust Funds and AccountsS.]...........e]ecce ess
TailingS ..  ... e we we eet es L. /...ee ee
Total from Agency, Trust and Investment Transactions ..............  
- Total forward cette teen   teteesees 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
 From From |
Objects of Payments Revenue Non-Revenue Total 
Total forward .......| , 
Sinking Funds.
To Commissioners for
Debt Requirements:
From Taxes, Earnings,
  ). ww ele   we  
Total for Sinking F’ds. |.....  
$ . /........... .
| |
| Temporary )
| Accounts
Agency, Trust and Investment Transactions.
Agency:
Taxes—State .......... cc wee   /............
Non-resident Bank .........  /............
County .......     we    |............
Liquor Licenses remitted to the State.  )............
Trust:
Perpetual Care Funds..............  )/....... 
Private Trust Funds and Accounts.../...........-lee  s
Tailings eerertisternesrnnaeasse|  |............
Total for Agency, Trust and Invest
ment Transactions .............  
Total forward ........... cc      eesesess| 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Temporary |
Sources of Receipts Accounts Total
Total forward  ... .....       ee
Refunds.
TaxeS ..... ce ettee    )....... .. .
LicenseS ........c    ew     ;......... 
Special Assessment  ......... cc  ele ew we wewe ele weewe ewes
General Departments ............  ]. ......  wee
Public Service Enterprises............  )... ....  
Accrued Interest .............cc  /......... Total Refunds ..............e.  
Transfers.
- Departmental:
To Interest, Water Debt from Water
Dept. .....  ...  teeewee ;............
To Water Dept. Debt from Water Dept.  ]............
To Water Debt from Water Dept. Sinking Fund .............     /............
To Highways from Alleys..........  }/............
To Highways from Parks...........  [..  ... e
To Highways from Police...........  /............
To City Property from Tuberculosis
Hospital .................  ce }. ....... To Police from Parks..............  ;......... 
Total Transfers .............. 
Total forward te et tee           
; Tit  ! Tt tt PO OO ALE

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
Temporary
Objects of Payments Accounts Total

Total forward .....ssc rv reveessee+| 
Refunds.
TAXCS occ  te et    eens )... ce 
Licenses ........-..cc    evececns  ]... weeee
General Departments ..........+--  )... ww  
Public Service Enterprises............  )...  ce we wee
Accrued Interest .........e  cc eevees  ). .....  
Total Refunds .........ccec  
Transfers.
Departmental:

From Water Dept. to Interest Water

Debt .....  eeee tt  /............
From Water Dept. to Water Debt.....  ]........-e .
From Water Dept. to Water Debt.....  |/......... 
From Alleys to Highways...........  /......... .
From Parks to Highways........... )... weee
From Police to Highways...........  /....... ee
From Tuberculosis Hospital to City

' Property ....  ... cte  B. ).... ce  
From Parks to Police..............  ].......... 
Total Transfers ...........c cc   
Total forward .........     

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
SSSSSsS  TT
Cash
Sources of Receipts Balances Total
 Total forward ............ ess|”dYS$ 
Balances
General ...  ...  eewwee ).......... .
Sinking Fund ........ ee we le we te ec we ewe we ens
Investment Fund .........  cc   ce elewe wwe we eleee et cease
Unpaid Warrant in Water Dept........  )............
Total Cash on Hand Beginning of Year moon 
Grand Total Receipts and Cash on Hand......... 

A
RRPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAY MENTS—Classified.
Cash |
. Objects of Payments Balances Total ;
Total forward .......... . | 
Balances
General ......... eeee   ]. ........ 
Sinking Fund ........... cc wee le weewe cw elec     ees
Investment Fund ...........     ele   et   ele wee   
Cash on Hand Gas and Electric Dept....  ;............
Unpaid Warrant in Water Dept........  ]/............
Total Cash on Hand End of Year.... 
Grand Total Payments and Cash on Hand......... 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDI R
CONTINGENT FUND.
Expenditures Itemized.
Marv A. Casey, clalm........   ee eens 
MeClintoeck Kirby, Attys., claim (Ezra T. Pad c):  
M. L. Weleker, Atty., claim (Emily Peloquin)..  
Catherine Kane, claim...............  
Frank J. MeKay ,Atty., claim (Philip Lake)...  
Mary A. Reilley, widow P. J. Reilley (gratui  
Katherine Lynch, widow J. J. Lynch (gratui John F. Millane, claim.............      
N. P. Avery, Atty., revision of ordinances......  
Geo. P. B. and Chas. BE. Alderman, rent, polling
 Kc Cc  
A. H. Adelson, rent, polling place.............  
Mrs. Flynn, rent, polling place................  
James P. Hobert, rent, polling place..........  
G. H. Sinelair, rent, polling place.............  
St. Jerome T. A. B. Society, rent, polling place.  
sons of Zion, rent, polling place..............  
Win. B. Whiting Coal Co., fuel, polling places.  
James Walsh, janitor services, primaries......  
O’Leary Plumbing Co., labor, polling booths...  
Casper Ranger Lumber Co., lumber, ete., polling
PlaceS Loe        eens  
Fitzgerald Book and Art Co., Ine., office supplhes  
Joseph C. Fringelin, stationeryv...............  
J. W. Quirk, office supphes...............  
Holvoke Multigraphie Workshop, multigraphing  
C. C. Hager Co., pads, nk... .. ee    
Geo. D. Butler, stationery...  ...     
Holvoke Electrotvyping Co., euts........... ..  
J.C. Lutz Lithograph Co., lithographing......  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
Paul A. Noffke ,engrossing..............  
Carter’s Ink Co., nk.......     
Birmingham Pen Co., pens..............+  
Geo. H. Hill, stamps, pads....................  
Maj. T. S. Benham, pencil pointer.............  
Library Bureau, cards, ete..............     
Price Lee Co., dirtory.......  ... e    
Whiting Paper Co., paper.............  
White Wyckoff Mfg. Co. ,pads..............  
M. J. Dovle Printing Co., printing............  
Anker Printing Co., printing.............. -.  
Leahy Printing Co. ,printing..............  
Mansir Printing Co. ,prmting................  
Transcript Publishing Co., printing...........  
Transeript Publishnig Co., advertising.........  
Telegram Publishing Co., advertising..........  
New England Rundschau, advertising.........  
La Juetice Publishing Co., advertising.........  
Free Press Publishing Co., advertising........ :
Artisan Publishing Co., advertising...........  
Democrat Publishing Co., advertising.........  
Die Biene Publishing Co., advertising......... 
Israel Ducharme, repairs, truck...............  
EB. L. Deane Machine Co., repairs, drill and tools  
George Hanley, repairs ,Ntreet’s pond.........  
M. M. Murphy, repairs, Street’s pond.........  
Thomas J. Morrow, repairs, clock.............  
Roland T. Oakes Co., repairs, eleetrical........ D. 
John Street, repairs, Street’s pond............  
Silverman Co., repairs, bag................. Td
American Express Co., express...............  
W .T. Walsh, expressS.............     ats)
John J. White, mayor, sundry expenses........  
Thomas J. O'Connor, sundry expenses.........  
James M. Kennedy, traveling expenses........  
D. W. Kenney traveling expenses............  
Pierre Bonvouloir, sundry expenses...........  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
Board of Aldermen, traveling expenses........  
T. J. MacCarthy, traveling expenses..........  
Francis MeSherry, sundry expenses...........  S. M. Benoit, inspecting ice weights...........  
Howard C. Lamb, milk......................  
Victor Messier, rent, milk station.............  
City Ice Co., lee...      
Nolan's Flower Store, flowers................  
Bunker's Flower Store, flowers...............  
Green the Druggist, cigars...............  
Goodall Drug Co., acid, soda.................  
Millane Bros., sOap.........     cence  
Holyoke Post Office, postage, ete..............  
Hall Lyon Co., postage............     
A. W. Smith Drug Co., postage ,ete...........  
New England Tel. Tel. Co., telephone and tolls  
Western Union Telegraph Co., time service.....  
Columbia Towel Supply, laundry.............  
James T. Devine, laundry.................  
Freeman Towel Supply, laundry..............  
Banker Tradesman, subseription............  
Boston News Bureau, subseription............  
Practical Polities, bulletins..................  
Novelty Supply Co., book................. 
National Blank Book Co., books, book binding.  
Holyoke Job Book Bindery, book binding......  
Eureka Ruling Binding Co., books..........  
Morgan, Crossman Co., binders.............  
R. R. Nickerson, office supplies...............  
United States Envelope Co., envelopes.........  
John F. Quigley, floor wax...................  
M. J. Laporte, Ine., team and auto hire, cartage  
Grroise Bros. Auto Co., auto hire...............  
Sheldon’s Transfer, cartage, freight...........  
Remington Typewriter Co., repairs, typewriter.  
W. J. Wood, photos...........  ...       
Smith Bros., vases and statues...............  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
MeAuslan Wakelin Co., Inc., cloth..........  
A. Steiger Co., cloth....................  
J. R. Smith, matches, candles, soap............  
Paifitt-Martin Co., use of chairs..............  
Joseph Mercier, tool case.............    
Bates Torrey, transcript of petition...........  
Holyoke Club ,dinners................ 
J. F. W. Dorman Co., dog checks..............  
F .B. Donahue, lumber, ete.................-.  
Storey, Thorndike, Palmer Dodge, legal opin  
George H. Allyn, sundry expenses.............  
Thomas J. Cummings, deputy sheriff’s fees.....  
Collins Murray, furniture..................  
Columbia Refining Co., amberzo..............  
M. J. Clifford, labor.......................  
Carmody Son, premiums, Sinking Fund Treasurer and Deputy Tax Colleetor’s bonds....  
James J. Dowd, premium, Tax Collector’s bond.  
Walter W. Eaton Co., expert auditing.......  
Fred S. Willams, constable fees..............  
V. J. O'Donnell, sheriff's services.............  
Ernest R. Laduke, sheriff's services...........  
Fred Laduke, sheriff’s services...............  
Joseph Charest, labor...................  
Thompson's Business School, rent, typewriter.  
G. E. Russell Co., drills, ete.................  
Raymond Ezold, bounty .....................  
W.& L. E. Gurley, sealing...................  
Gas and Electric Department, lighting.........  
C. J. Haley, fighting forest fires...............  
Commonwealth of Mass., commission fees......  
Edward Picard, labor, Sealer Wts. and Meas.  
Geneva Sullivan, typewriting ordinances......  
Anna C. Rooney, typewriting ordinances......  
Holyoke Bus. Institute, typewriting ordinances 
Myra C. Gould ,typewriting ordinances........  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR

Elizabeth V. Coffey, typewriting ordinances....  
Josephine F’. Kane, clerical services (City Clerk)  
Joseph M. Goddu, clerical services............  
Frances Callahan, clerical services (Tax Coll.).  
Aurelia Cantin, clerical services (Tax Coll.)....  
Irene F. Cleary, stenographic services.........  
D. W. Kenney, Jr., clerical services............  
Kilpatrick Post No.  G. A. R. (Relief)......  
Nelson A. Miles Camp, Spanish War Veterans,

Memorial Day ........... 
Veteran Firemen Association (Memorial Day).  
Kilpatrick Post No.  G. A. R., Memorial Day.  
Jesse E. Sheldon, Treasurer Holyoke Independence Day Association ........... 
Pay roll, janitors, polling places...............  
Pay roll, election officers.............      
Pay roll, labor, Sealer Wts. and Measures......  
Pay roll, Mayor’s .secretary.............  
Pay roll, team hire, City Physician............  
Pay roll, nurses, Milk Station.................  
Transfer to Police Department...............  
John F. Sheehan, traveling expenses...........  

John F. Sheehan, express, copies marriage rec 
John F. Sheehan, recording births, marriages

and deaths .......  ee   
Births and deaths reported............... 

Total Contingent expense ................ 

CONTINGENT FUND—Small Pox.
Julia M. Lewandowska, M. D., professional serA 
John P. Shine, M. D., professional services.....  
H. E. Miner, M. D., professional services.......  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
William Young, rent ...........          
B. Radner, rent .........  ...    
Catherine Ring, rent .........  ...       
"OW. J. Schauer, milk............ ........  
A. Roberts, milk .........  ...     
W. Brooksbank, milk........................  
Adelson Bros., provisions.............. 
J. R. Smith, provisions................... 
Hubert Marcotte, provisions...............  
D. B. Kelton Co., provisions.... ...........  
McAuslan Wakelin Co., Ine., clothing........  
Elliott’s Park Pharmacy, medicine............  
Goodall Drug Co., medicine................ 
A. W. Smith Drug Co., medicine..............  
W. EK. Martin, vaccine points.................  
M. J. Laporte, team hire and cartage..........  
Fred T. Bray, ice ........  ...     
LeGrand Ice Co., ice  ...     
Collins Murray, chair................. 
Thomas S. Childs, shoes................  
Mrs. Matthew Frederichs, care, ete............  
J.S. Wright, sundry expenses................  
Henry Yelle, oll... ........       
G. E. Russell Co., hardware................  
A. T. Gallup, Ine., clothing...................  
Wm. B. Whiting Coal Co., fuel .............. 
Pay rolls .........       
Small Pox total.................. +. 
Total Contingent expense................  
Service transfer soldiers’ burial..........  
Balance unexpended .............     
$  |

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SALARY APPROPRIATION ITEMIZED,  .
Jchn J. White, Mayor...................+..+ 
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk..................  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer.............  
Daniel W. Kenney, City Auditor..............  
Mary M. Rooney ,Stenographer, City Auditor...  
James M. Kennedy, Tax Collector............  
Frank A. MeCabe, Deputy Tax Collector.......  
Clara E. Callahan, Clerk, Tax Collector........  
William T. Walsh, City Messenger............  
T. J. O’Connor, City Solicitor................  
J. D. Goddu, Sealer Weights and Measures....  
A. Judson Rand, Caretaker City Hall Clock.... |
John F. Sheehan ,Registrar of Voters...........,  
James J. Dunn, Registrar of Voters........... 
C. J. Perry, Registrar of Voters...............  
A. J. Therrien, Registrar of Voters............  
Dwight H. Ives, Chairman License Commission  
Michael J. Bowler License Commissioner......  
P. J. Collins, License Commissioner............  
Frederick Kilian, Clerk License Commission.  
John C. Doran, Clerk of Committees...........  
Jereniah Seannell, janitor, City Hall..........  
Mrs. Mary Callahan ,helper, City Hall.........  
Martin Fitzgerald, fireman, City Hall........  
$ 

REPORT OF CITY. AUDITOR  
CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
CITY EXEMPTED DEBT, LONG TERM LOANS.

Bonds, vears per cent, H. W. Bridge, Due June 

Bondd, vears per cent, School, Due June  

Bonds, years per cent, School, Due July  

* Bonds, vears per cent, School, Due Mch.  

Total City Debt met by Sinking Funds, 

Sinking Funds, City Debt, November  

vet Exempted Debt, Long Term Bonds, 

EXEMPTED DEBT, SERIAL LOAN.
Bonds, yrs. Sch.&Munc. Bldg. ($  ann’ly*), Due June 
CITY UNEXEMPTED DEBT, SERIAL LOANS.

Bonds, yrs. School ($  annually), Due May 
“ “* Highways ($  annually), *» May  
“  Sewers ($  annually), “* May  
“  Highways ($  annually), “Aug.  
“ Highways, Sewers and Sidewalks

(  annually), ‘* Mch.  
“ School  annually), Sept.  
“  *“* Municipal ($  annually), Aug.  
“  —CUS ** Sewer ($  annually), ‘* Aug.  
“ Park ($  annually to  ), “Apr.  
o  ‘“* Municipal ($  ann’ly to  ,
$  ann’ly to  ), ‘* Apr.  
“ ** Municipal ($  ann'ly to  ,
$  ann’ly to  ), ‘* Apr.  
“ ** School ($  annually), ‘Apr.  
“  Municipal ($  annually), ‘Apr.  
“ ** School ($  annually), Apr.  
“ “* Sewer ($  annually), “Apr.  
“ *“ Sewer ($  annually), May  
“ ** Park ($  annually), May  
“ “* Highways ($  annually), ‘“* Mech.   Sewers ($  annually), Mech.  
“  Parks ($  annually), “Mech.  
“ ** Municipal ($  ann’ly to  ,
$  ann’ly to  ), July  
“  School ($  annually), Sept.  
“ —C Smiths Ferry ($  ann’ly to  ,
$  an’ly  ), ‘* May  
“ School ($  annually), ‘* May  
“ “** Municipal ($  annually), “* May  
“ Parks ($  annually)  May  
“ Municipal ($  annually), ‘* Apr.  
“ School ($  annually), “Apr.  
“ Municipal ($  annually), “* Oct.  
“ “* “* Municipal ($  annually),  June  
“  ‘* Municipal ($  ann’ly)  June  
“ mos. Municipal, “May  
Total, 
Total Net City Debt, 
“Payments increase periodically.
|

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
GAS AND ELECTRIC EXEMPTED DEBT, SERIAL LOANS.

Bonds, yrs. G. E. Light ($  ann’ly), Due Dec. 
“ “* G.& E. Light ($  ann’ly), ‘* Nov.  
“ G.& E. Light ($  ann'ly), Apr.  
“ G.& E. Light ($  ann’ly), “Sept.  
“ G. E. Light ($  ann’ly), Apr.  
“ G.& E. Light ($  ann’ly),* Apr.  G. E. Light ($  ann'ly), Apr.  
“ G. E. Light ($  ann’ly ),* ““ Mech.  
“ G. E. Light ($  ann’ly),* “Feb.  

Total Gas and Electric Plant Debt, 

WATER DEBT, EXEMPTED, LONG TERM AND SERIAL LOANS.

Bonds, years, per cent, Water, Due Jan. 
Bonds, years, per cent, Water, Due July  
Total Water Debt, met by Sinking Funds, 

Sinking Fund, Water Debt,  

: 

Bonds, years, per cent, Water (Serial), Due July  
Total Net Water Debt, 

HOLYOKE WESTFIELD R. R. DEBT, EXEMPTED SERIAL LOANS.

Bonds, years, per cent, H. W. R. R. Stock,

($  annually )’* Due July 

*Payments increase periodically.

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
DEBT RECAPITULATION.
Gross City Debt........... cc cw we   ev  
‘* Gas and Electric Plant Debt.................  
“ Water Debt .........  ce   te  
‘* Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Debt............  
Total Gross Debt, all sources, Nov. 
SINKING FUNDS.
Sinking Funds, City Debt........... 
Sinking Funds, Water Debt.........  
Holyoke Westfield R. R. Stock, earning guaranteed perpetually.  
—— 
Total Net Debt, all sources, Nov. ... 
ASSETS.
Water Works (based on Construction
Acct. only) ..........cc --  .
Gas and Electric Plant.............  
All other City Bldgs, Land and Parks.  
H. W. R. R. Stock (market value
based on annual dividend
guaranteed perpetually) .......  
———————.  
Excess of Assets over Liabilities.......... 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
: SERIAL BONDS ISSUED  .
 

Nov.  Trans. to Fire Dept. Elec. appr.,  Noy.  H.AW.R.R. Bonds, 
“ ** Sewers Permanent, “* ‘Interest accrued,  
“ Sidewalks Municipal Bonds, 
“ Highways “* Premium,  
“ Mun. Police Bldg., ““ Int. accrued,  
“  HL W.R. R. Debt 
maturing  “Premium,  
“ ‘Interest City Debt, ** Int. accrued,  
“  Prem. Municipal Bonds, ‘s **  
“ New High School, “Premium,  
“ Central Engine House, Int. accrued,  
“  Alleys,   

“ ‘Highways,  

“ Relief,  

“ “Sewers,  

“ “General Receipts,  
$  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
TAXES, SIDEWALK AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS.

 
Dec.  Balance Due Taxes, Nov.  Receipts Taxes,  
““ “* 
“ “ee  
“ re  
“ 
“   ““ ““ “* 
“ wo  
Dec.  Additional Levy,  
Refund,  Abated Taxes, 
Dec.  Bal. due Sdwk Asst.,  
“ 
“ “ee   rT  “se 
“ 
oe “sé     
Feb.  Levy   Ree’pts Swk. Asst.,  ““ 
Dec.  Bal. due Sewer  ““ “oo 
“  
“ “e “ 
“ .  ‘* 
“ “os  . 
“ Overpaid Taxes,  
 Abated “s 
Apr.  Levy Sewer, “ 
Nov.  Interest on Taxes, Rece’pts Swr. 
Aug.  Tax Levy,  “é 
Oct.  Tax Levy, St. Rwy,  
Oct.  Sidewalk Asst.,  “e 
Nov.  Add. Tax Levy,  
“ 
“  Abated 
“ 
“s “s 
** Interest on Taxes,  
“Outstanding,  
——--  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SUMMARY UNCOLLECTED TAXES AND ASSESS. MENTS.

 Taxes ....... cc       .

 ‘‘ occ        

      

  Lecce      

 ‘SL         

    cc s  

 ,‘ voc   ec cces  

 “‘ coven  cec  

 Sidewalk Assessments........  

 ‘e ‘e     

 wec   

 Lecce    

 wee wees  

   

   

 Sewer ‘“ Lee    

 ‘e  .

 ‘* Leelee  

 ‘e   

 w   

 “é wev   
Overpaid Tax,  ,.........  

————————— 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
CASH ACCOUNT, CITY TREASURER.
 
Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Payments to date, 
Nov.  .—Receipts to date, Nov.  .—Balance,  
$  
CASH ACCOUNT, WATER DEPARTMENT.
 
Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Payments to date,  .
Nov.  .—Receipts, Nov.  .—Balance,  
$  
LOANS, TEMPORARY. ,
 
Nov.  .—Loans paid to date,  Dec.  .—Balance, 
,  
Nov.  .—Loans outstanding, Nov.  .—Loans to date,  
$  
BORROWING CAPACITY DEC. .
Valuations for  .
Year Valuation Abatements
 
  
  
$ 
Average net valuation,  :- —
$ .

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
LIMIT OF MUNICIPAL INDEBTEDNESS.

  per cent of ................... 
Entire city debt................. 
Less exempted debt..............  
Debt not exempted............... 
Unexempted debt, serial, provided for by annual

paymentS .............     
Borrowing capacity December ......... 

ANNUAL NET DEBT STATEMENT.

The following table shows the net debt at the close of
each municipal year beginning with  :
Year Net Debt Increase Decrease
  ................ ........... .- -.  ................   ................   ................   ................  ................   ................   ................   ..............   ................   ................   ................   ................   ..............--  

  ................  
*Caused by purchase of gas and electric plant.
Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

REPORT OF THE
Board of Public Works
Lo the Honorable, the Mayor and Members of the Board of

Aldermen of the City of Holyoke, Mass :

Gentlemen :—The Board of Public Works submits herewith its report for the fiseal year from December ,
to November for your examination and hopes that
it will meet your approval and approbation. The report
is also submitted for the consideration of all the people of
the city whose co-operation and advice the department has
always sought and welcomed.

The total credits, including appropriations by taxation
and from loans, amounted to which does not
include the balance brought from  amounting to making the total receipts from all sources For maintenance and construction there was expended and balance is carried to of
$ this last named amount being principally
divided among the accounts of City Hall Annex and Police
Building, Central Fire Station and High School Gymnasium,
although the bridge construction account has  to
its credit. There was expended for the City Hall Annex .
and Police Building during the year, for the
Central Fire Station, for the High School Gymnasium, The expenditures in the City Hall.
Annex and Police Building and Central Fire Station
accounts inelude sites. The expenditure in the High School ,
Gymnasium account does not include the cost of the site,
this being in litigation at the present time.

For complete statement of the financial transactions
of the Board you are referred to the table of Department :
Accounts  which, with the tables that follow, covers in
detail the activities of the Board.

|

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS

We have with us this year the same perplexing question
of the canal bridges on Cabot and Lyman streets that has
bothered more than one administration and the recommendation of last year that these bridges.be replaced without
delay, or strengthened sufficiently to bear modern traffic, is
here reiterated with more emphasis, and for more detailed
statement of the position taken by the Board in the matter
of the bridges, we would refer you to our report of  ,
which appears in the Municipal Register on pages Nos.  
and  We are of the opinion that some satisfactory
agreement can be made for the strengthening, repairing or
replacement of the Cabot street bridges and we believe that
that should be done for the benefit of all our people. At
the present writing work has already been started in the
preparation of plans for the strengthenmg of the Cabot
street bridges. All of our existing bridges should be given
consideration in the matter of painting and minor necessary
repairs to the iron and woodwork.

There is now, with the exception of small stretch of
street between the third level canal bridge on Main street
and Sargeant street, an apparently thoroughly good roadwavy from the West Springfield line to the heart of the city
and your attention is called to that part of Maim street
above mentioned and the desire of the Board that something
be done to improve its condition. The manufacturing interests located in this section have long asked that improvements be made to the roadway. The Board hoped to be
able to make the required improvements last year and
believes that the tax-paying interests along this street, and
that the city’s interests as whole, will be materially benefite by the replacement of the granite blocks now on this
street with smoother and well wearing roadway. It was
impossible at the close of the fiscal year to determine the
eost of part of the above mentioned roadway, owing to
the fact that the bills for work and material had not been
presented. The Board recommends the serious consideration of continued permanent street work and the adoption

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
of the permanent plan for the extension of street improvements. It is time that Holvoke owned and controlled all
of the apparatus required for doing its work and while the
board is aware of the cost, it believes that the benefits to be
derived from such plan, if operated each year, would
more than pay for the investment.

A considerable amount of attention must be given to
Northampton street from its junction with the Springfield
road to Morgan street, this street carrying as large, if not
the largest, automobile traffic of any street in the city. The

deterioration of streets under this kind of tratfie need not
be enlarged upon here. It is hoped that some action can
be taken to provide the city with adequate street signs, but
it is useless for this Board to prod to spend money on
the ereetion of street signs of anv kind until some means
ean be devised for preventing the defacement of these signs
by means other than the natural wear upon them.

The Board was approached during the summer relative
to the ereetion of an iIncenerator for the caring of papers
and other burnable matter, which plant was to be erected
without expense to the city. The plan as suggested was
the erection and operation of this plant for period of not
less than ten vears for the nominal sum of  week.
The material to be consumed would of necessity have to be
delivered to the plant but after delivery the city would
have no further expense other than the above sum. It was
suggested that in case the city did not eare to take over
the plant at the end of the ten year term, the contractor
erecting it would have an option of renewing the contract,
and for an illustration of the work done by these plants the
incinerators now at work in the eity of Springfield were
referred to. The Board did not take aetion in the matter
owing to some legal difficulties that might have been encountered and the fact that the dumping grounds at the
present time are so near the center of the city. The time
is not far distant, however, when the reduction of waste
matter that  burnable must be seriously considered. The

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
burning of waste papers and other rubbish in any kind of a
plant, whether erected cheaply as an experiment or along the
lines suggested, would, in the opinion of the Board, materially lengthen the number of years that it would take to fill
, the ‘‘dingle’’ dumping grounds now in use. The removal
of ashes cost the city and papers ,
which amount does not inelude the vast amount of papers
removed by the ash teams. It has often been thought in
constructing new buildings that, with no additional expense,
paper burning devices could be mstalled similar to those
used in the school buildings, which would materially lessen
the expense in this department. It  to be believed that
owners of apartment blocks might be persuaded to co-operate with the city to this extent, and if obdurate way
might be devised to try out this method certain apartment blocks and if practicable way could be found, no
doubt, to install these or similar devices throughout the
city. The expenditure for the removal and disposal of
house offal has materially increased last year owing to the
dividing of the city into zones or districts and insistence by
the Board that the work be done in manner as ealled for
by the specifications. Contracts for the removal and disposal of garbage for will amount to this

being  in excess of that paid in  .
From time to time the necessity of purchasing land for |

eitvy yard storage has been advised. This might well be
, given earnest thought. The land now used for storage is
the property of the Holyoke Water Power Company and
adjoins the present city yard buildings. It is well adapted
fer the needs of the city if it can be purchased with the
means now available or an appropriation or loan made for
, its purehase during the year. Under any condition immediate action should be taken for the protection of the property stored upon this land. This ground properly protected
would add materially to the available storage room for
breakable materials used by the department which could

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  s
be secured at times advantageous to the city when prices
are low, and the goods stored for future use.

In making this suggestion we are aware of the antagonism that it might arouse under the theory that one administration should not be expected or required or even
permitted to bear any of the expenses of its successors. As
a business proposition the conduct of the municipal corporation might well forget, in the purchase of supplies and
materials, the fiscal year, or municipal year, or administration, and purchase its materials as the Board has always
done, so far as we know, from the lowest bidder and in the
most advantageous way. If the materials so purchased, or
even purchased for use during any one year, could be properly stored and protected, the expense of maintaining such
protection would be amply rewarded. We would suggest
that some means be found whereby the property of the city
of Holyoke wherever located can and will be placed under
the same protection and given the same care, thought and
consideration as the property of any citizen.

The Board believes that for the proper protection and :
conservation of the sand in the bank recently purchased in
Springdale, some means should be provided to prevent the
promiscuous use of the sand by unauthorized persons.

The needs of some of the school buildings such as the .

 Hamilton Street, Springdale, Kirtland, West Street and
Park Street for modern means of lighting was called to the
attention of the Board late in the year of and again
during the current vear. recommendation is now before
the Board of Aldermen for an appropriation of money for
this work. We believe that the buildings in which evening
school is held should be properly hghted and that the boys
and girls, young men and women, struggling in these
schools, should be given some encouragement by the city.
The Board has previously recommended that the sanitary
arrangements and installations in the Elm Street, Hamilton
Street and Nonotuek Street School buildings be made by
replacement in many instances and repairs in others. Work

|

. }

|

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS

of this kind is necessary in order that the public buildings
may be maintained in the high order or healthfulness of
past years. |

There is need also of consideration of the erection of
a water storage tank either in or adjacent to the Holyoke
Sanatorium in order that the institution may not be deprived of. water when absolutely necessary repairs are under
way at the pumping station at the foot of the incline. The
matter of the water supply was handled in such way last
year that there were few interruptions with the free use
of water by the institution. With the installation of a
storage tank of only few hundred gallons capacity, the
likelihood of any interruption of the water supply in the
building will be practically eliminated.

During the year coal pocket was erected at the City
Farm, with other material necessary minor additions. The
entire work was not completed November .

The vaults in the office of the Clerk of Courts and in
the office of the Board have been fitted with fireproof filing
devices as required by the State Commissioner of Public
Records.

The work on the three new buildings is well under way,
the expenditures of the year being heretofore given. A
complete statement of the expenditures of these buildings
ean be found under the accounts of Central Fire Station,
City Hall Annex and Police Building and High School
Gymnasium.

For heating the public buildings the following expenditures were made, viz.: Schools, Fire Department houses, other buildings, including City
Farm, City Hall, School Department
offices, Holyoke Sanatorium, Hillside
Hospital, City Yard, making total for all

, other buildings of .

For lighting of schools was expended Fire
Department houses, for other buildings, ;
for street lighting, park lighting, DurREPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
ing the year the underground electric system was placed in
operation in the center of the city and from this sixty-two
ornamental street lights are operated. These lamps make
a net addition to the lighting system along the business
streets of twenty-nine lights for which an additional rental
is charged over the old style are lamps. It is estimated
that this expense the coming year will amount to some
$  in the street lighting department more than paid in
  and from time to time it must be expected that the
underground system will be extended. The Board advises
that some thought be given to the replacement of are lamps
on the Springfield road with Tungsten lamps or with Jamps
of lower candle power placed nearer together. .

The water rentals are continually increasing owing to
the new buildings being erected and for the total expenditures in brief of school buildings, Fire Department houses
and all other buildings, we would refer you to the Reeapitulation Cost Sheet forming part of this report.

The Playground Department was made by ordinance an
independent body separate from the Board on July .
The expenditures of the department to that time will be
found in the tables hereafter.

The Board, in conelusion, requests the co-operation of
all officials and department heads in the service of the city
during the coming year and will be pleased to co-operate in
any way with any citizen or official for the betterment and
advancement of the city in the conduct of its affairs.

|  Respectfully submitted,
| BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS,
JAMES A. ALLEN, Chairman.
ISRAEL DUCHARME.
THOMAS J. LYNCH.

January .
Attest:

Oscar C. Ferry, Asst. Clerk. on

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. .

Established January by His Honor, the Mayor,
under the provisions of Title Six, Chapter Thirty-four, of
an Act to revise the Charter of the city of Holyoke, which
provides for appointment of members by the Mayor without confirmation.

Organized January .
Organization for  .
tM. F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires February,  
tJames A. Allen, Term expires February,  
Israel Ducharme, Term expires February,  

; Clerk.

T. J. MaeCarthy, City Engineer, term expires February,
 .

, Assistant Clerk. |
| Osear C. Ferry, elected January by the Board,
under Civil Service rules.

Members of the Board and Their Terms Since Organization.

James H. Newton, first Chairman, elected January ,
and served to December .

Michael F. Walsh, present Chairman, appointed as Commissioner January and elected Chairman January having continuously held the position since.

William B. Reid, January to February .

Oren D. Allyn, January to February .

Gilbert Potvin, Jr., February to April .

*William A. Chase, February to February .

James A. Allen, February .

Adelard M. Potvin, April to February .

Israel Ducharme, Fubruary .

 Died February .

+ Mr. Michael F. Walsh resigned as member of the Board of Public Works on
sar unip. “On the same day Thomas J. Lynch of Maple street, was appointed gail
out the unexpired term of Mr. Walsh and later on that day Mr. James A. Allen was
elected chairman for the balance of the administrative year.

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
CITY HALL FUND  .

Accounts Payrolls
Transferred to City Property................. 
Total receipts ..........          

CITY PROPERTY DEPARTMENT  .
School Buildings. ,
Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals
Appleton Street School.. 
Carlton Street School... |
E. Dwight St. Sechool...:  
Elm Street School......  
Elmwood School .......  
Hamilton Street School.. 
High School ...........  
High School Gymnasium.  
Highland School .......  
Ingleside School ........  
Joseph Metcalf School.. 
Kirtland School ........  
Morgan School ..........  
Nonotuck Street School.  
Park Street School...... 
Sargeant Street School..  
School Street School.....  
So. Chestnut St. School.  
Springdale School ......  
West Holyoke School....  
West Street School......  
William Whiting School.  
. 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
Fire Department Houses.
Elmwood Engine House. 
Emerald Engine House..  
High St. Engine House..  
Highland Engine House.  
Mt. Tom Engine House.  
Relief Engine House.....  
$ 
Buildings Other Than School and Fire Department.

Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals
Bath House, Ward One.. 
Bath House, Ward Two..  
Bath House, Ward Six.  
City Farm .............  
City Hall ..............  
City Yard Buildings.....  
Elm Street Shop........  
Hillside Hospital .......  
"Milk Station ...........  
, Pumping Station .......  
School Dept., Gen. Offices  
Tuberculosis Hospital ...  
$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  t
All Other Expenses.
Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Accidents and
illness, 
Automobile, 
B’'d Health, labor for,  
Boilers  
City Hall Fountain, :
Fire Extinguishers,  
Fire Warden, filling
extinguishers for,  
Materials paid for
from appr’ns of
former years, 
Miscellaneous,  
Playground Dept., .
labor for,  
Privet,  
Rifle Range,  
Sanding walks,  
School Dept., labor
for, 
Shrubbery,  
Stock,  
Team hire,  
Telephones,  
Art Metal Construc- |
tion Co.,  
$  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
Summary, Oity Property  .
Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
School bldgs., 
Fire Dept. houses,  
Buildings other than
School and  Fire
Dept.,  . 
All other expenses,  
Due other Depts., 
$  
Less credits,  
. 
Transfer from,  
Total appropriations, receipts, transfers, 
CENTRAL FIRE STATION  ..
‘ New Construction ;
Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Gen. Constr’n:
Erection, 
H’t’g and vent’g,  
High St. Eng. H’se,  
sale of,  
Insurance,  
Mt. Tom Eng. H’se,
proposed sale of,  
Plans and speci\ fications,  
Plumbing,  
Prew bidgs., sale of,  
Site,  
$ 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
Contracts Pending.
Sullivan Carmody, contract plumbing, 
Michael Taft, contract heating and ventilating,  
M. J. Walsh Sons, contract erection,  
$  
Less credit due other Departments,  
$ 
Less credits of pending contracts,  
$  |
Balance to 
Total appropriation, 
CITY HALL ANNEX AND POLICE BUILDING  .
, New Construction
Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Gen. construction: |
Site,  
Erection,  . 
H’t’gz and v’t’g,   ..
Plans and spec’ns,  
Plumbing,  
;   
Contracts Pending.
P. J. Donnelly, heating and ventilating, 
Joseph Laliberte, erection,  
Sullivan Carmody, plumbing,  
——s  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
Less amounts due on contracts,  
Total expenditures, 
Balance to 
Total appropriation, 
CITY FARM ADDITIONS  .
. New Construction
Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Boiler house reconstruction, 
Coal pocket,  
Driveway repairs,  
Materials paid for
from former appropriations,  
Miscellaneous,  
Oil storage,  
Reconstructing roof,  
Steam coil and regulator,  
$ 
Contracts Pending.
Holyoke Supply Company, installing
steam coil and regulator,  
Lynch Bros. Brick Company,  
$  
Less credits,  
$ 
Due other Departments,  
Balance to 
Total appropriations and receipts, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL  .

Accounts Payrolls Totals Credits
Balance from  .......... 

Engineering Dept., labor for.  
$ 

Balance to  .............  
$  

FUEL DEPARTMENT  .
: School Buildings.

Accounts Charges |
Appleton Street School......................  
Elm Street School ............    wees  
Elmwood School ..............c ec   
East Dwight Street School...................  
Hamilton Street School.................. 
High School .............  ...      
Highland School .............  cc       
Ingleside School ...........  ...      
Kirtland School .........  ... eeee    
Joseph Metealf School....................  
Morgan School .........  ...  ee    
Nonotuck Street School............    
Park Street School ..............  cc      
Sargeant Street School ..................  
School Street School.........................  
South Chestnut Street School.................  
Springdale School .................... 
West Street School.................    
West Holyoke School........................  
William Whiting School....................  

$ 
. Fire Department Buildings.
Elmwood Engine House ..................-+-  
Emerald Engine House......................  
|
|

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS .
High Street Engine House...............  
Highland Engine House ..................  
Mt. Tom Engine House......................  
Relief Engine House .............  ... es  
$ 

Buildings Other Than School and Fire Department.
Accounts Charges
City Farm ......... eeee      s§ 
City Hall oo... ..   ce       ees 
City Yard oo...     ce        
Hillside Hospital ..........  ...  ...     
Pumping Station ..........  cc       
School Department Offices ................ ..  
Tuberculosis Hospital ........... cae  
$ 
Miscellaneous  ...     eens  
Summary Fuel Department  .

Total payment for School Buildings........... 
Total payment for Fire Department Buildings.  
Total payment for other buildings.............  
Miscellaneous .......  cc    ees  
Total appropriations, receipts an dtransfers.... 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASIUM  .
New Construction
Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Eng. Dept., labor for,  
General Construct’n:
Excavating,  
Erection,  
H’t’g and vent’g,  
Light’g and power,  
Miscellaneous,  
Plans and specifications,  
Plumbing,  
$  .
Contracts Pending.
Lynch Brothers Brick Company, contract
general construction, 
Holyoke Supply Company, contract heating and ventilating, 
. Sullivan Carmody, contract plumbing,  
$  
Less amount due on contracts,  
Total expenditures, 
Balance to 
Appropriation, 

®
CmoncwdowwtWtomwmowdonwtowetOoee cS OQ 
Sesto Drm ONO MOM YY) tH  So
eS BB HB HB es
: Zsaowew ste Dorn  WM.  CO HM. CO rt 
@w om ort oO we LO rt mt OO y)
or Ae mo mo N
ew nN

 oe oe  oe e
rr re 
PP gir :/s
aa &*   pre
.  Fk  AN
oh ry--Oo  Qo
eS  ff ff ft -me fll iewe tite
oak Croe N
: a
Pe oe
an ad ®  oe
a Yc Pay
a &
ren et tt   te SS rom)
. FEoeo  “OS  Ve)
o Sete TT OT tT tt tt as “eo  .
 Coste oC tt   tts reaa
ade@  @eee oepn
i) Oo) -eoowwmd s. oO &}  CO (Jo)
Zz. cS ON dds  Co
a  imww PPP ieowe PP lie lta
  -&™ oo
Se  oe le ll OO +e  oo
fe  *
  .
A oo) SDONADAONNAOOWH HOH OH -OM wo |
WOoMN MOO Mhr- WOW MO HD  iO West ww oo
ica ok  +. e@   e
a ELEaomownrwaaenno Yorownt aA Tek 
orn a) rm)
ch ra on y-)
a  e
e
en
ido}   -'   -or qo co  -oo jon)
no eo me HK ION ODOM NN MW -: oO
  wee co TN AN TM YwWN We tae wo o
Ecco OF  Se (moO CC ov
Cis nd :
.*  wn
ee FP  e@+e@& 
teDD Dope Dt .
-§ ee Soe es .
e e@   .o e
  ar) ar)  :-  e
. he  om se 
eon :ii ilo iis  nN tia :
oeee Oy sm e
on om oN
d RF. oO @d. e
woo ENU GOGO .
we Om ow lm DL,Ww .
"me  oO oOo Om pond!) Einand f
TNH OD OSH OG Aan sa 
N F® eNQngnve onk eg BB LC)
sees   ete teat esse  
a SoGas Hoy  PO aw ks &
o ecactgsaMOmmoy ga
eZEbaehMuUoteogetea soa
wv pt mim oe OG oOo Oo
HEHRTIUTISMEZAHARaAKREE

C OO
om OMe wo ma |
wened® seszsexrex:e  
G  OSHA Sees dbas  
ss. oe  #@ *
 nN
“
wo
aif. .
ryse  e
gett ii: ee
Seo   SEb d
o  #
om  ss. 
gf: z- ee
Bec d| Piri iirc
eB crt: oo
eit: Hoek
Siri: PEEPE d]
rea’  |
eGe. :
Som: SoS ort tones ,
medi. fof ot? PPbbiin: |
. Foree
Z oe  oe
  Pee it
+ foi  dl ot Ut cE rare
 peli pet te: 
—  e@ "aN a
ww fa] On »o@e@ ec .N "ap  .
& Poiob bo tot Simin iiat: oO
 Pap)
Ss  eown
  COM ON TN E
BE opys ne i/o BASS -S
& $ESor re ow ewe. |
Y fas  SS
  b
 iD  CY OD So ;
fae aa Ve) SE UQPON. co
z ear
z Do 
e an
s es tal
Oo Oo S
wih SRO  -S e
gevow ord |e eaer  ils
or XK OO oe PaaS  
E  OND ae
mo  
. ovo
: ry og
Pig  . P g:  
®. So ..:  re ,
gorge: P tg :
go Se es es :
 n-ne
en om oO Pfr hor Zz
C oe ,
@ Siig igs
ao wd oror os sme Pe 
[- gon me
  
bo Sof bo FS  :
Pa gi oD Prot (Roos 
GaeGes Fi iggeget
 cs gf Bang :
 oe  hUad
o UU ly Ce si  mm  
a §§ a
SE?  Seas swag Ss ,oaahe Raa BR ESE é
B ss popxasese 
afnaee PRPs skas
OOOSAAASE
Au wy fe

 oO  re wf ise]rt OD ro m
CO Qan [oe]  oO in  wt et OO OD ro re
— se es e
Zn no ise)  fo a] WwW  rt OO GO LD oo) fo a)
cet ew  ea WONN OO WH  OS 
Birt wo Oo rmVe) Nt NO  meio N
Fan  ae o
re Sd is]
“n ag we
 oS S&S  Ca om) (om) .
 od om)  Ver) e
ge  Dif eS le:
a“ com) Cd
us
e  .
   [oe] (oo) Oo  e
rm se  i) .
od  se e
wn
oe  mm) (|S 
Bel: Pro  ile:
.   ry  [eo ry
ee
.'
$  (om) oe e
| Ven)  ry  Ve) e
£,] ry bd bd 
ees  +) Ld Ld e
   Lal  ry  es
ms ee

  ito) ey  om) e
.  Qo "lM ie  e
amf (fo Bowlr tiifes:
om i} -}oo  a) e
 iz om fot Py  oO e
r  wo
if be 
i) wow et FB ino ye Or Mr mM Pe) Wan ao Qo EE AHOWMOHMS Co
G LEM aS Oo Bt Nw oe) oi SF rNnwomvamo law:
P Sor wo  as  ££ mnwowna lo :
s zo  eo on  "bp wine woo wm!
id nw Oo by Lg me  os OO Se)  rt od rR a
|  nN oa rx a: @
Cd pe Se o
on
m
 oOo  [Jan]  co
LL] OS Be Ve)  as]
& ba  Py  Pan
as  ste  
a Pi foro ft Bo eae Di ifa ld
onl   wn  re as]
 GS be a

s se es Ld
e e. ong
. se    @
  o
Sat! Plot tt Piddido oid &
ow  »§ ®R   
hw) -s iJ es a
a re, ap fon)
—  eomme par!
® el  co
bo  mae eo ce om
ao Va  ry  Sung
om vo nan &
eS fo)  bn em fo)
AH  Lj  Ww  be
om bo -—anonea Ww f")
 ww pl en!  oe &
y Ss wy Oo hon So OC &
o () a] a's toa A}  —
oO ce os aa em be cd
nn  bs  Bos Ss OMe em Ow
oe  “£&  S-—SES of o
Qo ad itd  Ow mM
Sa alSe SY bu
mm A, Ay aH NhOnh  Es

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
WATER RENT DEPARTMENT  .

Accounts Charges

Bath Houses .............ee    ec . §$  

City Farm ......  ... cc     eens  

City Hall .......  ...           

City ard Buildings..................... 

Electic Hydrants .............. cc  

... Elm Street Shop.......  ...      

i; te ng ae 
a ee

|
|
}

—— oD ie) co EB rt) OO re  re
ODN foe]  ao wotd OO OD reo re
ErMao No oOo Wo oo
set Ww OSD SS, XK  ae CONN  Be  a) 
ao nan ae Fos)
ma ag ise]
x Sg 
z oe S&S -C oe e
 mW oO ad ard us .
get Pip BS LIfe!
 oS wn
Ven)
; eo!    .
g ry [oe] Qo e
x   Ft e
Srl! QA lr la:
; x
R Sg  PY a: orf ee
  re .
CT qm MR  Te  ™
ew  te  
bent fons [ed)  
Rm  BOF ob bo an
. wn fea Mm e
 ww ry Len} cmt om ot f)
aE yo  Seraen  a
evo  Co: msheE APO a:
Oo OG bk  woe —
Nn SI mo A) ae marawa Ss,  
yy  SAAS oe  
su iC,  aa aA ,Fa ge
a a) o] BD  
OO mb  Gein sl
gedw cs Sue Cwm Be
o A. Ay  Tr Fa  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
WATER RENT DEPARTMENT  .

Accounts Charges
Bath Houses .......  ... cc      
City Farm ......  ...          
City Hall ........           
City ard Buildings......................  
Electic Hydrants ............     eens  
Elm Street Shop.....  ... ..   ee    
Fire Department Houses.....................  
Fire Hydrants ...........     anes  
Horse Street Fountains................  
Park Purposes ...........    ec ences  
Playgrounds .............        
Riverside Park ........... cc cc     
School Buildings ............  ...     
Shea Farm  ...        
Squeegee  ...        eens  
Street Watering .........        eens  
Tuberculosis Hospital ..................  

$ 
Transfer ...  ...   eet   nees  
Total appropriation ,receipts and transfers.... 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
ALLEY DEPARTMENT  .
Materials,
Accounts Supplies and Payrolls Chargcs
Contracts
Ashes, removal of........ 
Papers, removal of........  
Aceidents and illness.....  
| Printing and supplies.....  
House offal, removal of...  
Dumping gr’ds, maint’nce.  
Tools, new ........... ..  
Teams, maintenance ......  
Tools, maintenance ......  
Enamel Products Company  
Team hire ...............  
Telephones ..............  
Miscellaneous ............  
Totals .............. 
Cost of labor for which reinbursement has been
recelved .......... 
$ 
Total appropriations, —recelpts and transfers.....  
Payments and refunds for
labor and materials .... 
Total cost of ashes, papers
and garbage removal... 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
BRIDGE CNSTRUCTION  .
; Materials
Accounts and Charges Credits
Supplies
Balanee from  ........ 
Main St. bridge at South
. St., amt. agreed upon
with N. Y., N. H. H.R.
R. Co. as city’s share of
cost ...............-+.  
$  
Balanee to  ..........  
$  
, FORESTRY DEPARTMENT  .
Materials
Accounts and Payrolls Charges
Supplies
Gen. maint’nee, unclassif’d 
Miscellaneous ............  
Planting ................  
Spraying .............  
Teams, maintenance ......  
Tools, maintenance .......  
Tools, new ..........    
TreeS ......      
Trimming .............   
: 
Less credit due other Depts.  
Total expenditures.. ... 
Transfer ............ 
Appropriations, receipts /
and transfers ..........  

es]   e@   e
   e
Ls ae}  . e
d  .
  e e
s es es es es Lm s
Mo. fe ace Pod tit  G
SB :oiitopitiootiiwe hd pit titi tie:
 an tJ eo] e
) ad   
e  se .  Ok a! .
a se "mH  i, o
BS lolli ol gi   rit: orig:
come Sag    e
Oo? ad onl .
a. e e
 se  e
   Oe om  Cm ve) e
O@ lilo riti riiSi oii: rir: ie:
iL LN ry r) e
Eo Sal  C) e
on  ad  e
Zz. . 
fa 
Z
fx) Ves) ornt OO COM  Om AAO HM OnNrk.
Sg SHE AWK VANISH How wBose Suen
 NO oD Ht oN  ev ar OO 
Sr waren ms NOOR TY CON OO WO
a ot mS aon aay
a oe
Ay
c|
A
®
 Oe -O ROMWS MAA AD -™ too
me [EB MOM HeAIAMB OH wNNoe oor
 HG OC MPOH ON (N BODO uf Dt  oD
SF  RD OAD NA "es OONRe eS "oN mwnN we
.  Cort tea)
Oo SA an ,
panel
joo  es LJ
fom) On NI YD or eer) woOmw -: CO comm Oo -t&
SS AMS  AGm NSSOHM: AMT  ]:  
Sw wae "tO ne he wee CO Om mn @&  
& oO Ne a
a se e
 e
arn) R ry  ry Sue 
TRIG IFILL Lie is LLIB iB ia iB isB ists
-  .. he ew eR AD  BH gm
iin CO  Ao} 'g&
om om -— fue -—
art) gy B, oO o& e
 bl 
,  Pid ak BA SES Lt pog cs
BE“ shu  OHS Ig we OS
  Hg SARE TE: Agel og Beeg cA
 mo "Oo ovo  -Sy -* AAsOnm "As  e
| Ls ao  an ba Py Oe  Sy ry :
S ot SSB eet OG ge  aca .
  foes. “OS  .,: ,, wero if
Sac hg SR agaza ne Sas  
“ fomyowes mS bow oPnSs ar
oo KS) otk sh aPassetso seq
cs AS Styetseas apoces weaos
‘ om Sug .- FOR onan sBB Fea Baa
 “A aRAAMO OD OUD DORA ARR hoo

ie  es es se  es e
 e  
Poof Pp   tl lub of? tl
    nl LJ e
 Dc) Ld
    oe  te  .
rr  Dt
SB  oir  oi orto: MN to
()  e
&    .
e    eo .
a]    e
as  ry  e
Se ror rrt ob orto otitis otin:
 . e
a tlt tt
E .
Oo e we 
- Os Tilie oof ito: Piri OS Dit
) cu  fr)  e
  as)  e
o  se . e
SS. Pte Dt te Dt
|
fo)
O tT MArANAW CO AN “NOw  
| ag NM SHENK eTS om ream RN
  NMHIOMoOo Kee w+ (uD NOAO :
  Sw re wr
o aa N
e N
 ;
) e
a
fo wt MNNKNKO CO “OO. AUDO
me GSN Atonmee  -N  H: Sees
QD gG Kt URMHOARA™ ’-) Dor Hi
Ave SM mo  mo es
  a
"  “Tv  Ce |
  e
a "OMIM No NA CO AN "Oo os oS :OoN
OC Bs BRASH SN cH im Aw
ce BS itot IMO EN ee’oo le
Sn Nte Se) fom] oO eo (O
Ss  or) eo .
  e
| se
 @d @d Sm e
se tbs ot ia IOS Oo. ig et RGIS ::
|
om...dwoD Ss... .tom BO .a..
— ona e“s  a]
"SS  “EeUs :o wm "Os *@ .
* a) ba fu By  Ho he OOP gy  
oom  aoe aot  om  bal 
| Eee  e
  “. ConA” ST EOS e
.  -OF FO Og -AOa Ss wks goBek .@ 
| -wels rs  Sm Oo -O 
Ho Htou aodoas  WA ye eae
aos  mat oOo aoe tit
 eG CE HOM OD PKR OF
Ss HORNA SVE Gg SFG Sas
Zon  QNAGS Mn a€AS ESN asa oe.
NBNSSoa ag ORG HAS AEHM ED OVUM as
Ca Ba PBR BHn DK BOGESSV. GAD  
PRAOdMMM Gea tC gg oP Servo kgs aka eg
WD W'S ‘oO 'o @ESn HF san arnante@mromon” &o
Hm DeeaaAde oH AA  Zane  ZZ tu

@ es es e* oe 
- .  .  
om ba
La . . .
(ob) es  es es e
Son    es e
'®) eo  .
    
@.,i     otto ob ibi    o
se se  es es es oO
§   
f-) s ol
& se Ad  se e
e   .  od
a ses o
oo se es es ow
cmt fw  es uw
 e es es od
  e Lad Ld e
EP e es e
ed
a
a
Oo  .  od
. Oks : . oo
fw song e
@  yop fe  e Ld
  PPP pit :
i se : :
  se .

OQ AWNOAMMNAMMH MEY KPYBPOOKM HR OWMS .
| ag SVMHNOAOAG Yt MAM SOW AMM WOAN
a Ba TMONNMHKNT FS MM NMANDOTEHOMMOE :
Smnm wn  —M VOM OSDNOON KE 
Z,  o- an  mM ON RARMINNR he AMAA .
| .
i e
. i
qo NWO -M -MID KA HOMOKM WAM OON :
A, AROS or -oOF “Ht SE OMOHDANNSOAG .
Hse t& imo inwt  ID WNOOPANADODOOM :
QO onmin: "Ho FORMDOINMND KO ’
 an mt  OH ENA er 
mom Nid est aed .
 Gia  to e
 es e
ee mn (DIMA -WNSH oO "OD +O .
Ss wes rN crete  oe Ct te)  LO LS Ce) e
SB oidida ide Sl it Dl li  iis:
he ue  LO .— NOOO LD  
L&:
  tn .
e  "  ‘ac . "og .
e es “SUT :
e  oe on "Bs  e
eo  ASS Fe ESS es
Oo  .e Sd es aa
 Os Pia ao -eaase
- ene-a Ch [HSS tw
  “  ae oe ba gm  
s: "oO oe .e  
n oom oa) WD  "Oc LV]
 ie] fe  -noatry "mm -oow We m
FB: gk ash Segs ekese :g:  ™
Oeee (Saag ease BIT EKR.
e io}  Oo j}  e
Gags loom eNnNteEs Faas evun seas
eo MB Be ww SP LL OS? SS A
: ge woe ORR EGR eCUS Hg eS oee s
a EMM POoadtcade .D Map oe Yo
Seeee erst oe ile  
 xml FT od m@
roi OO OL we oot oom
ao re  aa OR   wv cake
HENAN NN NNNNNN nw  

. co
be} Ld CO 
|  fore)
   “
  bd oo
  Ld Ld  we
v  es ;
e  r™
oes (oe)
een  oo
 or es es Ves
  CO uf 
S we te |
& SH
e  oO
:  fo)
a se Q
Sé Piri orp op fii: tits oo
a  t) wo oO ono
  :  oo
t, As cs 
: atime} oo
| oO t& on ne Ke
  DON  Ve) wie
o  or  we
@ zo CO t
  ba:  poe ry ry    
T BSS ANS BSRB AS io: |:
e wo "
| "OAm mS wali |]  
a "HOOD mA ae i!  s
Z.  AON mt  pe 
fx un el -|o Rs: fe  .
  Ko le -§ Z|
a  SSB R:(S ase Jk
Q ats (OM tr zee  oe
S eT NL oD oD  
A of  a
 BS ay lo os oO
 ae ob gs
;   
:  ef aT
z BO  ,
en LO @
 ws -Os an be  
m  ae Cr ie:  e
o  "S bd  es "COO re] aE.  
bm  Pa TS  &
a  is tw Sq oO Oe
® Net—] eB
G rr St ::|a  
P| se es  e
i Es
iu  bus e
posi: (Lip liBie iti titiot:
  : se es
emesis cB eis:
web IB Lie Sie le lg
i Cn in  ty iB .
e  om ry  :o  "@ Sut ’
  se s
avec BR iss :$eg ig:
-F  -—“P@g -Ao S
aos (.. Ong wm
Sed a] "oo -— 
| os] “om fo -o BF ‘Sees :
BS OAgw bemSe BME  
Sse Be Bo asa eEates  
CO  rs) aelzata aoe ap fo s
— "@  Py)
DOSS aw “ete soak”  fae
SSP CsBolrnsesoR iz 
wet esoesme sh saaes S
 om
a Sen BER Bone 

. .
co  e
d bd e
Sn es bed e
  .
— saree Chote
wm "eo on tok ae
—  e
LN bd LN eo  
fo)  on  
Bo  st Df:
ae SRE HESS aa
e bd  eo  oO hd
er "NO os  
() te oD tw oO
  orMeo Bie rN .
So ‘a.  nN .
fhe “oo iis oe won So .
  aS "So: or -o oka :
Os ‘a  rat rt .
a bd  hd e
r™ bdfo @) oa)
 Dorin: orm tm :
e "A rn)
  Zn a) ens
fx en)  [om om] .
) oO  fs)
 om Co os foe] e
Sua bed uw wy os ty
 as) ite Se mo a
lows ent ia .
  ae ee:  DO!
  e
j bd Co tf oO
a ND “os Ye) 
owe —s "o  aN a
va Xue oh Zak's) oT.
 asus log: HOD ,
S es x. es. OO ;
eo  yy co: :
Oo @®  (on) rs)nN wo’ eo .
en  bd 
ee oO —
 gZona   e
Zz. ESS .N  “&  io @)
y  “a .  
fx) eS  .
omen  .
Z. Ve) ul
 ca  soe fr)
Ss  Do
ra] mo co  bd “a 
a ae —
A, st   
Lo   io @)
Bw   oo
al to. "oO nN se se Ve)
 oOes ro)
s   e
. be uw  
e (a) 
;  oo:  .
 bd of 
e .  (ae ok cc om  .
. -i  to oe .
  fue ba oo) bd  ee?) tae
 .o  
. .ER   .
fs) bd ine) mad p| 
a mE .e! -le!  St "
  oa, ple!
cS SEE: S:acicé oD si 
ro) oe by oi -ihienon™ oP)  ome  on ag 
ous ') ot  ta?  “SOL .
Saige  Sees: Sin :
gB  Hh me! Aas  ‘
/o  ot a
a ED Ma  Baw Eas Keen :
ge  ode ec oY me pi  ‘sogs.. ce) fo  WR  oon  Bs eS "oO em is) *
b an OR Ss
AEA Epa  on an weg eo ee
Cee  fc o- ented” bw OS
es SaSES gE ons Qo,  
co alaneeias 
ae Sf EEE hs nos
O eg Ee  a
Hy nee EuatZ
  Es
ae és
 
agad
aT

w .
  
oO a. .
feb) *
Sn  ee
.@) yet .
o eS yf
a ve cs yt .
a: Por  ih: io)  bes re oe Do :
e  SO nk See  
te wa “ae:  .
  bd es
. oO  x
e Co @e .
m  aon’ uc .
e ry sip ame |
cS oe  AN tr
oe  oe AN tw om]
® ms NN  om) Fore)
—.aq
A  eh e
  am OQ  oe  Ve)  Ye)
q oO.x
o x. oe  e.)hOUC a
o@ Doe oc) oc)
UO ea  ae ce Et “i? .
ob BS Foe  
S| a) yr PEt eI od N
al  xe se St WO, re oo
s tecS  
e foe) om) Co |
 gg +e  
Zz ond  he  en Co
fx)  Ve) co TN mt... t
. an oN ao a
  gai:  a:NN st  [em fo) bd Nw oo
 Se)  he Qa  co o
A. “Ct oe  
fz) we  ws
.  
A ie .
  on) "Aa eo ee
  TNO e”
 bd  bd Toon  
| "NN An e
iz Oe  ON.
se  tee Diet
Sa :S 
i) Cie ae .
a.) "“@  e
  "eo (Ss "oO  x. on  e.
Z, toon —— .
e| bd aN  Py
Zz “is Ports gt  a)  ed  ;
s eo Lo: 
aN "oO +O   ae.
A,  bd  re:.
bl fof .
e oO   .
Si! For Soins  eS Do:
  Os ot .
BE! SE a
end "GZ APES:  
a .” LS)  er. e
wang oth
  [z,  O.. ligisges .
  ag HB
: eald jae
a al
  ens -o  @e a: osznse
BAS ge. me ad HANS —
 Fees "OOS ig siesae (Se ig nS BaT s
z gaois Sees cohen  Ss aero ose z
eS SaeSSaes ess
  Aas Gsges vee “De
fo fos] ESHER 
ce oe ES
Ran Be Sages
 S

wa “WwW  CO  “oO  ce
 Pipi ilies lejo
heaewDO Cc;
'®)oe a
e  rs
e aH .
uo)
g
mooao -m (g D
Aone  rm
@ ronsio:: i:i[e B
a Nowe oO Ww
S  me us  
i) ee
e  (ome) oY )
qi Com &
fo) Cg rs)
  cs  om)  
- &a MSN  Pit OR l[rra|wo!l
 -. ..  to  |
  eS ae  een) od Or OS COM Dw pes .
rer] Cg   AD oO Fans}
|  ome  co Ly )
g —slf l€ Is
. r
  Sino .o.-- mar: le |e lo
 SinS INI: II)  
ta bes Oo me a) ry  ba 
ao  rte aa oO ae bd  .
rs oe  ee
ov” [mp]  e
 SF (oo) 
Z. e
e “cs oN  GO (p) |e e
Am iit Sie Pp nt
ee tixtisaia: :|e oft
[om  -— or  op) eo an OC)  oe
Quy - e
f) aR "oO  e
Q ae  
faa) a) AN oe  oS Oo  .
 oe “N  Oe Pn  OD  *s
S §S lidie idl Cll]e  Be
- uo r) Le] SO w& wo D
ae, Py e) 
—  ry  oe ome  o
—  SH oom oO Co
ss a.  g
id  e:  o—
  PIR rit  eS gS ae an aa
Se]
  Mo tO me
oom "A   Be oo
f) Suma ry ") [| pal jaa)
Z.  nN  one nny
fae} fo) ow pars

s 
s EE e

Ca  bee 
fring   od  aa
 i:  g: 
S ofa Bs
  es se  
xo  MR ft
Q  &® "Sis qj (o)
—  Gud
aq ome Cop) he  om
a   
Neo... SH, Dae a“
so  -eve Dd @
a ao EQ SI  Oo  ar)
ofmo soe eh any 
& bo &, Ysd  
as) cUD  .—  et OE} (o) Cx
q sa oe -& gi
ee  og VO 
S LZesoprss  
—Sss soo  &,
Soasseon 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  
PUBLIC WORKS CONTINGENT  .
Contingent expenSeS .............    
Telephones .........  ...     
Trausfers oo... cc   teens  
AppropriationS .........  ...     
SALARIES—BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  .

Walsh, M. F., Chairman..............  . 
Allen, James A... ...  eens  
Potvin, A. M...... ce ne  
Ducharme, Israel ...........  ... cc      
Ferry, O. Co  ce eens  
Cleary, Irene F...  ...eeees  
Moise, Rose ........  ...  e    
Ashe, Marie D. ......... cc 
O’Neill, Katherine M. .................  
O’Connell, Frank ..........  ...  ees  
Stone, William A. .........  ...        
Kennedy, P. J... cle         er    
$ 

Transfers from ..........          
$ 

Appropriation ............  +e       e+ 

 cot
bo) ye os
® e
Smut .
  : .
a  .
() stots  yor fe  ot
ae   ry  Ld bed bd
: Serr   EHPPE
S Fee x. om Dt? 
gS ::: PIl ns SE lfii: ar
ze bed  cro Co  .
  eel iif s
OS  .
aw   . 
 co  Ad .
S es  ke ,
a: SECEESEESE  !: Dl :
oodoe Sa e
ua se bd  NO  .
. . CO  e
+e) .  .
 Ss ry ty   ry .
a id   te oe ee e
nue Da  ror) tee 
Z, Oe te be co cos tet
&) Eee bichebebs : .
s Ae Ot tee  e
  v) BSR ARS oe
nN or er se
fou Co  oO  bd SNe  bd
ou tale oe  
fa  ROS St reat ve
gS gauee  as) aoo woes
” Lo  OS Ven .) Sov PP
em  wi  be Ee  —
z Vex on mr) aN or 
fx eo ie) tw
 oO TI  o
e nA oo
m .
oA mn "wien
a eo a) Sue SS
ome Ye) om to)  No OS
  eo iD  (ROMS
og -o "oo  na CASHES
fav}  “AN “oN  reN 
.  oo
. 
. “A -ehk
e ee
. the. amo ttae ww  ‘DO
. . .
.  .- *
   
“$  pe te  "Pe .
. “Co tk  bu "Ee "Eg tk .
Sue Qe os Sm  So  .
  mn .
wo,  "SE a, .
Bat  “E -g§ bed bd 
ae  oS wd -ao ry .
 om "aS sn mM om “C  .
| Sas net    fe "Ea .
 Pe be-& oe“ ye re oe
rs) an kee Oo  fue Se.
eo ‘gms as Rand b,  bu
S ac  aZ  (Lees .
ge PEGE.  on Since
S, ene ere
SHE Eee ape as .&
Anes Oe Des   ES: 
SECPS *eteuz ook IS RCE Tt
S ao)  a
Sake sf  ne 
pease GOsKeetR oe enc aan
BEESEESSre Ere  Bes esases  an Bj ae Bos
BSSSks  AS as ESs A
—Q lon Seat Ri” got Bao So  —
jaa) Ss} oe ssHs
Egg os CoE r} PGHaee oe o
HELE oo: Fong  bo
Dr he  
oO Euigzsees sees
@ Skee oS” 
Shee Sss ®
jFeore s
AEEESEE
‘SAR ee
afta
SaeB
Se

  ;

om .
no)  e
® bd e
Sua .  .
.@) . . ‘
E telpt  ..   ‘
 Ld bd Zif :
o reoe oee
  ao
 bd es Md   Plitid g: re o
a Ps  
MQ  ef  
ze  bd  oe”
On om) bd   ie)
os us .e  ek .
   ee
. ee  Z,  .  A”
ZF ets: Pipo it $
&  So
 wo e
) uf  bd
 : ze  o
| AQ e
  Ve)
 bd wo Ld e
is]  oo
a “Dto ;
re  aaw NOLIN oD CY)  
CO ri ao oD  ry Ce m
Zz ao aN @
a ae .
. eo OO ot e
a  ays “Hw e
[om  ..?   aes  :
“Be Ben sees ces on
A, ce Ay  me  arose 
qh  Lo mC ekete  
Q  aa "NO  :
fx) "LD .
be ‘Son... .
  (Re }
wr)  mw’! CO 
XQ Om  "em he CO rm oN .
mM "tO bd  we Py
.  ell Sod
 re aa ed 
eoog an  ;
wHeS ig Bi: .
tt art S et .
et gf,  
Soe: pg beer)
a Ul aane HY
geek  UAL  gee:
  Oo -o t&  .
| (HE tay WORD ably
q hee hoe Sy ine SEs  (SE gSa
gq FS EB“ EEES Sr eedeeg ote :
S goby ge gkss
oSng aes BSaego™ Sg  pea is
.  cE bat bggbz ioe: ‘on PR Es s
step Hl EEE ripe
: wo  em 
SEZ   
sae tn  Epeiag gee
ree   eo aa Tas  ae
a ame od as oe ake e
Sd .,F AS
gegilieeaieaieeils Boe wo  
exe Pee ook eo aaees fo
mG son NES Shwe sae
Boss asec ge
MN A] nan
|

 feo)  .   .
 tet?
  ad  e
. e
  (m] S
m  . Ves) N
 es .  .
. we  es rd Ll
bond    
o .    NX
ak   .
  . e
oom

 
mn    w
SS or oor  ritiop : Pir  
Ste     ‘o
Oo PF   A
OD  .
A, LJ ty
  e
®
. Z,    oOo D
     ufo  c”a
S) Be Pid doo.   ob pb iit Co...
a e*   .
  
&
ro) .
oO OO rt wt  LOD wt Luo "OO WwW NIN HO  Sall Saad 
| mM OINIDA  MOTN “HDONMN MMONANAMT  ;
oo Te oF rat th "R  HRN NIN MID "ow 
a  rt to So oe LN re on on) .
ra rm OD Qe .
| om ry 
QO
fx) Sq Cnn on “OO LO “owow Saat oN SOO “Hu 
S fg wR Od Sh HS iA OR
GO weses "Meet TINO KO TROON "Or
S wo rm onl oe LN so  mo .
XK ro nN
 :
A. )
Q rap] “oa mae  “Nw  ON e
oe  NO oom cc  "ON "ue “CO 
Eolii’e dees Lill iidwias: Cis!
a fo) es  .mo s
is  Lam  and  .
Ss}
me  es  *.
re   
. od ,! es  fue  es  es  
.  ry   »& .
e  oy Py -TE   LJ BG a“ ‘aia
.  g.  “gq "stor "ae
. ‘SO   rm DK ‘MM @
e  “Zo  Se -ce  Say
Sms fig Mm  hw  bus -gc-  -o 
OO tw be ww oR —— Oo vo BD  -(Q od
ME OO  RG MO eh em oh ME ONG .
he fg, oS  -h ok "S  B& “o  a
COmn ZED fen (ome)  Lee  bu
H&O g™  bb Og -., Bo  Sua oer -B®D
[+  Sets —- -@pe -O aoa -O  Om “Moge As
ees woe ao .A aan oeg .d @
|  Sog Le AeA nye -B a: ey Ay ®
 Pgo oa Fanke Vaegon &. o
o  FRE Bravo Am --a bE,j 
) Je somersecase log vw. ah Beo .o
[we] YaEmn AacmnwetA -o Sp] Ay  San
  fo) ous we Ua Ca oO o-: ra
Slct Vlg ESS, SU NEAR eh wos
o.-gERZ ok Ze OLS yw Oo woh asD *o
Sus  reg” Paes easels 
eCESte Fc@  Easeom™e bi cas Hosa Cue .
PEN cer ecOeste ol hea Re wee me ose
SSCCHEME Reet ER REAR SETS OER EBS OSCED
w fw Sel saa ZAaA ZLZLQZ CRMMAMADH enn

a   ey N
  ™@®  oe 
Sue AQ
ie) pon
s oN  rm
BZ  . Pim flip  coje
 m
(o)  e
e  Ci
|   Py 
A)  H
   CO
   ab
fe)  e
eR rl  ss
  teee ln ow
A, Lt NAN
Es   . GQ a
: ec s
] Z, AN  met aa
  BS TLimri  ys ae
  oe  
A ty .
   .
ran) Ss Cg ao
[o) ‘
o AMAmMOoWD MPANKRHAOHMWM "(Se  w+ .
| mg amwmnse oonwaneaa (amie F.- -e
oc) SB Aen aen sornred on [wer [om  No  mt  en  +
oO uv  
r Is) ry  bs ao |
 foe) ls |
- wo &.. ,
i i»)
@® 
Za os ee
BS Ay CHVNO ONAN io: [es  -o
S  menos. ernen ina s/s BB  
es FO WWM RO MAME TON Ii  “@
wo Noo  ro .{|o  nm 
cm ow fue qm &
 "Ay  Jae)  a
Ay we Ow  
fz) P) P.,ef eB
aor  
ja) San 
fo) Oo wz  tO  “tr on)  Oo f& aw a
eg SOOKE KH (HL Sirs]  oa
BC Bb Sis  ile Fas @E
oO us  ®
z AN  tw em o
Sy  ape 
e  fo
nN one 
ry  pat cman
- (rw [ae]
MR Sma ry  ww 
‘   Oo o
a fa fe a
cm  Jay ry  ae -— e
p  t) ary)  e
e e
  wh  ry e
s ot ‘h GaSe .
Bie ie gel eae a
. io) “@ag@lo wm  .
QM  CU -—eAaAoqg  .
a -gq :§ .
Pe ieg  ies "Bessy:
Oo  Wo, .
ou, s: Hisosng  Fr)
i]  ae ’
two .- -o  () Ps  
hens Lag page of -S 
auSs -PoS.oergeA”  Ss
ee) io on rs)
wor ano be
seQpaoagagagesS -o  .
om RKOas .@ RQ
x  'sa bs
oo  
a Won Ds oO co  )
NM AHeeRE BEEBBre

Sof oft: :
—
La} s.,. UmUC  s.dhUcaPhl Ch eo e
@® e.vdUc lh!ees
Sue UhUlf oe #® os. s
'@)se es ss. lo e
,SO SO 
. ie  Ve) CO ufo NX oS
Sit tie  a) ra) wo nC) Ver) io a)  oon ow
 uf fae) So
o es ss a
i es ry
f} e.|e
 e
om
D #§ F&O fom] (op) bd eo te |
my oe usoo Co: ove
So ii {iw  mt ma ae 
TQ hy  Ver) Ve) foe)
i ot rm 
Os tn e.| OlU s
OA eo.e
 s.) —l  es- UC 
ae Zn--:  iD CO o
a  eer we 
m  "TA nN mo SO co;  
[J  Ven)  im |
i Str ots YS ‘
Z Ss 
‘ fx  ry

ae
 At MHA Dt ok ,
BID Min DO  :
Ba sae :
je} Oo es e
(an) Ht e
@ e
ae
 SGnoeoo  CO e
  ot *.  
| on .@ :
  Gaon  no 
ee Sse  @-hC—C—lUlCUh  .
Zz 
x Zao lo ome om)  eo e
Zz. ao: mm  es 
S Est we! Pt oom  on s
loo) par 
med e
  tw bk ow toe to.
(ig ig ifag (Sead is ‘Seas isoa:
-  .@  Ome ok tet
  Bes .g  "M&O  gy (os
.-  “@ va  OO  -o (Q wm Zam Bead  Dh [gs “Egg “& oS ‘of tu"  :
re Ty toe BOS. Sogou” Sa:
 Og,£E& Pa -s hase go a, e
“TO: se ,o wo CO SEU oESOSS gto
TRO SW ESS PaNe poo“ sertagge og:
(SE Ib TEV SR IAS LOE BUR LAS ESS Age eo  E? LASSER ER ag oT:
Ble ie (HSS ESE '; EROS AHS 
S oof be "Oo “ogormrv -B,  ok s&s  do ., Jon. ot Dey Ve gee Sane: ES -a“Ga  -enado”™ Ok  
i) re OVD. OA wood (ome  ORD
Fg  a; eB ao? Zz, wma m
Sa “aoe, EFSOSsSSormoatoGutrus
ose GAS? Sa Boe oso SSO oVoeEs
SEES aZogseowaekagm -saaw Pena
 MER WStnosokseoso Mao gsaoi sd
SEP ASSISTS Sees ems SMHlas
a AUD Oo  &

Lo]  .
®se  oe
i it  yt  e
O ye Re  ae e
oOo .-  .
wa oO. te bd e
  moe Ld yet Ce -.
  oO: na  St 
&  ise]
e ce yet foe) al 
e fo] om) wo ro
() mo oe ow om re 
omd es .® te Ve)
race NAN co
  @-: Si:i: &
OO ba eo:.:?ee ee
oS Pe en
 eoaq ct Cc —
OF rors oa  rt ff "tt ow Le eo m
SCo A
er
  Aaa oO: coro :
[| onnq oc: te e
[o) So ee se Sd rt wo
.  uo  co
 se wa re [oe] foo]
a ae et na
 tecn!
rz e
se nln)
Ay  ‘can IND .
m mee   ;
Q bs} Se e
  "ot  .
  .
A as se
  Bo
- at AIO oo. let ;
A aa "Oa 
aS “ON  met e
um Po co
a Fob
  :
  of .
 bos “N Co oO
o  Oe  Om .
  om  NID:  :
  ..  ve] on bd e
ex} tw Sr. :
ea) soft .
Py "tes .
aqar : e
mats bts  e
Oo (rt reo e
| BB sig BiB ges  
* ere arate  Ere  
“SO --: Ute St “: oO:
ey Eyl Be
poy egg Se gee oc: .Be Hag EGR, sé:
a Hagdes® Sah tan:
o-  .-., eek a: .
m  SEsouss oD! woo -agm 
- @® oBEAS: RTS wo Enm®
 pgchei  cy ic FEA: ty a. .nOo” Sys goo, EPR ELE Cwm.
ron) So .m -& q-@ Osean QO of "a  alg: et ea Soro om Poel PRES ES BEG Bo:
  &" Padoc ge BB: PBR S-ESsao  
“ Soadd gfe  SoRHBOS Zufte Bq BE bzL ao ES Sage BOB :
pews (  aay,
Seer EEoe e:  Hoa TH aa ater
 sSsgho  of a. SbOOm on ae
 PPEEr EE Peete aSue cm Sor
fe fe ie, SES EGISaSnES Zonta
fx,  wo Ew Se ag 
Oo ncSSe  es
Moin Scene
a aL

m ea p) es es  es
 es es e
Ls  e
@ se oO e
|  es  L
. es ae) es e
. tw  iJ oO “tf ra
. No nN
  fot: So G@ is S
C se  es ON .e or]
  rt oD co  s
ce e”  
eS e

pe)
 ry) rr a, um  tw QQ CS |
 on mS oS
RQ ty oe oO \J) on! isp)
a es rt  cro e
Se AN te a
o  Ld  .
o om oe oe .
opea Zz te WH  fp) (ea)  
- es  be bd es
‘LeCO  So se es
.o  tt ao!  at!
(@)  ov re)  e
fae} a
| BS oir 
ise]

fp] Co (San)  oO fom) oe aoe  »
, BZ  LN wt! :
  wo es
Ry LJ  
lob) .
As ‘
ca Cm   .
fj sz .
BSE fof: a
fn 
NM as  .
— pad
 a]
 Oo Oo “SS 
ico ce  m™  .
Z ho et .
 ov e
  tok :
 
ea) .
D  Di  Sa Sm emt oF ey  om  Ft 
en bee. ow. de np SS  IaRe: Ss: BpB.
waem.M. Be eae  be, .
. E- a?" Wem
ke  P| "es Ba  r)  e
. ‘OS's Oy 
[rn  er  ame  -" Oo ma? .
o. Oo ., me. Oun awe es! "Base:
mM Ce ae AO Oo CE
— co ad Oo  -m  “og om OM *
.  fmt  (OC SCH as fg ios .
m Pf Sam  mo. OB oOo D
QO  gw Ge een oO  AN
So :-S-a- SE Ts oH OES DVO NSH
: .:BZie (BSE BH ees POPS
io) "ah Gs Be Seg on Gr
 es B&B Kon Swe os asa
re  Me-Sa -Eemae Gl. sR  oFD
Sm. et OR DE GE  qe. as for)
sR SEES oleae, SteRS Gea
o,f eh IMR ED BS Ss edcCeeE aes. ;@ ER
vs foe! Tears og  Neg vserats
 fos STR Neo oO S:' fy, Nak
  me Nt So ba ,.o  afte sn CEN
n emit uastsogdearv eu oe pis
o  Te CL AMOS PSReI RAEN o£ wo  :
xo So  Tt wo By Sw aoe .
we ey Re ok ml  as) Cee ae 
LS TRF ST RPaAat sg aecTeS CERAEBDESCETGT
ZTreseryexLagscodc eEcegrioESSOER SGM. Se
Shin flee ecs eae sk page gees!
;  woe oe &
y+ ZA FZ SAAS Z, hh
i

m

- .
Le) es .
® .
bas e
O ft e
o-: tl tees cots
$s oo:  os prhidoih:
o oO ao  "fos
S Ss wi: rey  :
a  im  as ;
 en nN Sea: coo
 tw re  rs .
  OD oe  yes
| mend oS .
  
Oe  ha vote
 tehme
Of WN bd .— e@ 
. py mio:
  fe oN F: ei:
v Ex) et ae Ina ore
| mo! are"! 
& so!  .
 ra] oO ... ros
a  cS: os ree
;  oS  ot
§ mm Ln  oe oe
| ome} re Py a. or es oO  .
ov ») lo om te) e
x aa oMé “oo: —
o o-  mofo
a! a)  ci.
e ro
.  es
A. oO LN ..
 c} “@ .
e “AQ ee
QA bss “oe "Oo ('eae o
leo) |. "AQ fey Me oo
  bd -nNw  @
A an  Oo esis
iS oS  Ven)
-  Cie Ver) e
 io wm  ry e
as rw bd  
c co ose
e Se
mm  .— oN e
fx) Zz JN ga ‘ss
Zz, Oo ee
. yee Qo Le
 oe Dim:
& ho) .
jaar  “t e
x)  (i  .
us  |} CEN s.:
aee:: INO Ds
og DIB gS Ee:  of!
iRy “os oad  Gm ss ne
aun. bg  oo: Siseiie 
. ERI gE:
a. a:  SEB ert: ’
oo... ao rn  .
pe pews ES ji be  iis
eag. an  Bigeg oi: one
e fj  es reo &B
 oa BOE  ‘zie
na ase: .» .& "os: wo  fh Ss) @® Ba be  ona .
— —) hd fue ae: bd  goes ges "ew
a .: feb) ne ne puEB Pos Ss Oo
 Te: pices i: (Bs 
o  pods  ooR ss} ae. (aQSss
( age "ot Some eo Fee ee. Om
og fomoe oome “med mR 
ange /g -ao  ge ees Ss
aa ww Lo] Coal. tz onn “WF Coad Sede  [Tak s
ase oD: oe! os 
v aoe Zs cA ami 
gU fe  geez Suess a! oe a
mio Ee    evgues  we Oo:  eer zee paar,
n apes as we Eogaae cs
CoC SOn; ot Ol ao} "Ss.  
Th Omatag aL sow:  .
CT KR ENRTSOSS bee Sp Osa
 Srofeessz ole
TM  PS EMGSSacS  
Mi EEeE 
cf be
aie

&  N
pa e.)|  Chlmad
os..lUlCté‘ *o te
BR fi fis] @
UO  ry.
wo we  ,
ee be
 wml woe ilo
oN! on  ,
eo “Ie
e  TiS :
|  |S
()
per}
rs) om Ven)
S  H- on:  S
 wow: nwilse
RQ hy wo CoN N
  *”  oOo [IN [| Hin 
OA, Sod OA OR OMS
. mer woo or ou COCO TANI N
o rm ow orm !]
 Zn —m- e::/  ri  orm oOo
SS ES wala a
. BB @eiatiile |* |
) MW, O.,)™  
a and heie e
e ox LJ  .
 Pile ss e
es Sut es
tena
a re Sy  Ny
r Oruf esx. mt
-— ie iit(s SB :: g
 mf Ul
Ay eo es Sue
a
fx)  e@ 
QCd (-B)  e
bs is  om re  a) ce
fx) x. “N  .? R
  Sf :: ::i/  §€ i: @B
mp Sh $i: tiltje ool loe
  s..dUltCoe ow d
oem  me.
uw. do. &
Z aL ofpe CO ae .
Oo BS sm ::: ge BR B
 cL oe Ta) ‘aOm
ee  r- YO fue  
Ss oa: (iils &, 
a  So eo vad b
 &a  a
fx) Ss eed tg RT —a na o
Py cmt ND Bs co a
nao... -f  
qa -&O..od on f)
e ::A Be EO 
eSaz 
oo rc -: a
sod —SU» ps O
N *o
ow? -SO 
sa, aS
ak oe
 mTwWOoOn, Cod
a US mn
Steno res
oO Qalogtt
eS oNBeagse
“Go Bee
Oo fZ eo
om vay®
aa -S  
Ser EN x
fa) on  
& re FH

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS t
 . .
g sed So hls o.) hU c.hlUg a) Ss a] a) o] *
  Ey S
a Fs Ee a) g
  fi fal tal br sd bj tu
ais # 
eo zB  &  
oe ————
' rs/ #@ £$ ££  
| hu sa  ei  :
| geiz nu 
A oe nN ty N
nag band aad
a! &  
|  s: io  ffm
  —-  a: :
-|| fi  FE si  st  :
Enel en ge E
— ws e* a
oS bi Cz xz co Ss as LS ZL 
ome o
e) -— -
jjez| £€  
a
|
 ba g
OQ ome
 “a so es es so Ld  *
| a™ ‘
 se  se 
z Py   e
|PkSe rr re
 gE: gz g@  BL:  OG: SE: URE OEE cx OES:
Em |) SZ :: a: Zi Lf: -: £e: got kK:
 Hd oe: Sei  S: os:  CE EE Se:
 “op Se:  gts a: ot  .
Si ao. Ses Es g:  SzNos
&  SEB eS  G: Ha Se lst w
| ESE &: EE: Seg  El, Eeg $s Ets &
ay  Gee Gut Siu Fy ere Sit ?
  SES Seh SE leh cxd ct Sf FE ES  SE,
oh |! “ta Ate At# SS  c
  Sa: -:  u:  S@: nn er -e-e 
Pe} ce:  Sf:  SF: Bb: tS: it:  Ze: o
eh: ‘xm an oes en oe sR: st: eS:  :
fa gz: ge gt Goi ky: GA Gki fs MR:
 We  Fai Shy ARS eSe Se sel gs:
g es ae as  £: yl ot o§ oop TE :
Ra) eof Ss BEE oe og MEY Fee Sse ETS Bee
Se sig se Ef eB gle ft  
Z.  Ges  Gs:
x  am aC ag Fs sch  Ree  Za
| “ezi SS se  
| a: :
og g:  :
: *) *) .
F a: #&£  gf  ,f gE
s  &§  HEH FE &
 “s oi Hz we ih  oz “£ ait
 oa Ss S$ Ss SH  Se FF
ax ES RI EY Eo Es]  EI  bs)
.  .
: Ps bd :
 :
o CL Pw)  :
a   :
s lg
  
P   
\o)  So jo) |
  Ort bead Ty a
Zz  ZO  

§  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
- |
| zs )
 -— .
 fo) F-  co) -)  |
Ss  ed |Z a) ad a] |
ES  ce  cf
me  on F: By  fc
| ai fa,  u: ba mm |
Jule   re) Per
   ES  aan
 os -
L  ar  a) |
Els  S
 an fia Py ee)  Pe nN |
ee ;
cSss!] PS  |
||  |
om |
a  
Y |
 oyee) Sad  |
|
  a.:
i  |!
 Ze  cz ez  am ae |
   so) |
Oo  St ott #Ce  Pe aE
 oe Fs  Fa sa  #irg zes |
— “xs Ti oc ZS FO Do Con om ae
| $+ |
-  od oe PS
-|  |} FF  :
an  
Pat ll a) ee
“we  
nm —s |
— 
ec FS  mms  RAR .
—a  aye
oc. TT SI (ST |
 o
 
S|} : ;
he
- is ™
ww  @e  es oe e
|  Ps  
mS ps
| £: €:  £: Se:  getee:  :
Z. Ss: ah: B: US: sg: SerSt os: |
be Fr z- a: eC. cm.so :
 Cc: va: By: fe zx: Zia: au: ao:  es Co Eun a.
eB: se: ee: BE: vo: Fe pm  
oe: SE:  es |
  SS: BE Ss:  ne: per &s: ae: SSt &,  |
s ra  BE: 
‘o Sl: MSE B: SS Ne: “Ti Se: eS: STi ct er:  —— -.  oe pe) wo bs woe hee  ss
- e:  *: SM  erx EFS.  ecscze 
&: mte ser sceteer  
c Ce  Cl Fa Gs Exes pao  
go EL be  a] aee Seg xD ar be
 os  fe Paiba one “ok EZ Zs ;
 “sc atk “cz tox ES ce ESBES an ge: te: EE E£. é: eh:  Si: Esetfe: |
 rr BS: fs: a: wes cy: 
x Pom! SL: &: Beoogke :
 Se: EM: EB: BE: wa:  fe: SEES: gs: |
OC: SE:  €: €: Seio
g af: oS: fg: $$:  so: cc:  SE: :
J || @s Fs  Bs: Sey SF: oe: Skates fl
ae fat Tit SS me: Ss: eo |
— -s O» Seas Se Js -a. Boek et ;
o.  he wm  bk. —- e-*ne  Ce Ce e
— ae Go? pad  wo Se -— ae eogins ca
»  te e+ ev ecea Coe Ces   |
 az -ee-| atcy  aAxP EA 
— ef  re eS cE&eai: |
ra  Cf jOCY  GQ&ECSZES |
 OOa
YS, se. Dt an
-{} en -o TE Dt Cy |
  git  cE Mes |
ES  es Ey  ts" E. 
| ge  iF |
-)  oa  gz
|  wz PE sf €-  wt  wz otek  |
 “il fs “oc of: Zp, -s"“ 
; ZO Fi Ren FI  nee |i
:   |
a as
 rey yey  
'  a: Ss  g:  c
| oS a: Ec ‘za
[|  aes
ra  ra ra hae 
, Zz oi Te  }
 re |
I Dr  io) use -
| & |

m  ss J i)@® es   ®t s.)h UtCltt a
omg Ss e
Ls ez. hl  -..)Uc Cm! es es ss e# e
® es e. UC oe es .
Sue ss  s. e- #@   e
'@) es ea ry es ecm mm  es e
e es se Pe Ven) es se es e
a) ry CON  YY ry e
SBS tit me Piprtiiriit  ot Db tt
gg? se  .
  .  "e e
ommt

 
m “On es e
s  C) es  es  es es  
i tt
‘ Oo”  e@ ry ry e
Oe LN es ..  e
A
ae )
on; ry ry  ae)  eo Ue .
 -   e
® - es r os: PDD it
 ry ea  ry  .
  e
os |
re CNG HArOPN HI DPAMOWOMNMNM NNKO’
"DD mM PIDOD AIGA NAG DIN WO HE Oe) onwtmeo
a BZ OMMDDWWHSOHMENANWOAAWONDW OF Oo
ce  rh NPS ow mest sO SF ON oO st e
, nN en rm
Zz ey ay
fx)

®
EH Sm SCMHOMNOYTMErOM -Nrwoonen NOOCOD
low Bm CIWMINMANNSOH -ONTSOSOHOS DOnNnwon
 HO ONDAYTDOMN ON IR ODOM NN ONO  Sen CaN Bown mice assy ret AT  
bd ox .
()  A, rae]

ea P|
- nm CNHMODOS “DME AMMAHM “AHS Xe ee
 Bq RMOMEMEN MONMMOAMM -IOM “NA OS
c   ed TO Settee Flom "  les
[:} mewnare on *
 nN
Q 
pom e
oe  se .
bua
e es  Go "Oo e
e  .  .
PIPP Epil pi igi irri ire gs tae st:
 ry ryik to  .
e   “gq Wo toe e
e ci  es oe opm e
Ss fm OC and
e  bu fy .
ry es -£  -* Sma
 .™  -& -oe -w .  “op "@  .
s se fg  ae —] $£,
e bw bug Oo  be e
n (S'S tit SBB IVs is igigs :Ba. 
e  Of bu
a.  Ba ra —) ot  fue  oO  -A aA OS
  oO  eo ‘Sqzty,  a
fo)  ,  cg SS Rep p, “Hones
S eu Sassy Sotss ESS
   AL Deo (Boge
BIBS ox et TRY ser, SERS ASE (SF ofa
O OD Bar anesesae. S'S. By One
e we Seas eel ete row
BAiHRssFazs ne NAPSORse" ‘gue
N  -Ogw oR: :
®  bo  cy)  Ss) coe .s
BY oc poe Se SESS  ey ge BESO GENS
OnmM OUTTA not Woe aya
gen] wT YN wt oor Lew oie )
PSRSERSASGTH OLR StS MeaSOeE Same agsh
SkrROYoRAERA RS OCOnR FA Ene a)
LAARAROVOODUUODUARARERER BOOS
|

 #] oO . oe
  te ty .
Lo]     e
Bf.     iio ett DoDod
U  oe   
*    Ver) e
a]    .
So  bib tt oe tt Oo ft: an
co e 
oH es es es es es es es e
ome

 
m    Ven) 
Sa  Oo ad .
a  PPP ppb bb bib ott Oo ft mo. |
o   nN  r) .
On es  eo .
E a
. ,: ltl lili     ib ot Dok to
a] Am    ty 
® (eb) es  es e
pom  es e. es se eo 
r] wo
Ss
a NOS CO  NOM Or OD CO wt  se?)
O nm AOMWDOKNTNMAMmN “AOS inn  “AN
BZ POMONRWHONE RAE AY [Ne eon  CON  LO On NNO oe)
oD oF aes NUON Ne  )
e e
oo .
rm
a
Sa CO OER NID OO OS CL CO oO uf al “OO
Z Bm MOMANSHORMINOS tee ae “mS
BR SEC NYTNR OCONEE MDHONDH .N CO rte Vom) a
a Chee NE FN CRE COM ‘or  Eo)
e en  hon on on]
aw .
 e
Pa
ea) PP “MNMNAOCHW “MAW “O Ta)
Qa BR rae em oh ‘On  tt om
— me 'WOONMHOM (DOE (oo otf a)  oN NW OW TANS "CON  
SN ete re wm
  ce  e
tem  e
z Par}  
fo
e cf se  i]  es  .
a) s oO eB  *.
nn PIP pi    , pit se ie Dl ise tee it
 Sua Sm -o -Be  g,  LJ Ld
-o  -£ "oo "ee  mm  .
.  "@  *@  "Req ry
 Jug ba ww Of oe Oq .
- Oo  bu ao)    mM e
 Oo cn hd an  oe! *
- ‘a come bu of e
a SS pat)  gq: .
.  g,  id “oy  -@a@-  .
   Oo oe @) -“™  “BU .
"Oo .& ry  Pan} -oe am p, et he DY  
R "GD Mas -@ »§ ‘peZosoosd  ww oe 
re] aot oom oh fe HENAN OF -“£  r) .
 i/o   fun  ry
 SB Ss Ea eel ess yas  eet oe
an amrmBa iw  ao: one  
oO ww “Oo Tm  om Dn Me
.  nt RS yy Sem --—yoo) wm om id Fae ty ot
“ ae ens se see Sess aR EVs o. -Be ss
Fo go wm Oo BO SBS *SuUS  SH ORBSSE
sNwk Ge. SS Ys,e SS a? -niege
G.Eoanect sis sens otans Lak  ueH
meom® Va HCagdig Tess Reeser Songs
SERS CSSEEEME CELE RC BEES OES SOS EE OO US
 fonatscte Bret ek aMFaek aes ll co tr Kagé
OOUNRINIIALN   Za aS Bad ZZ, or

a
 oe
Lm] et
@® ee
Sun ye  e
UO or? ee
al: Pitt te a
r od ot rt bd re ct 
om sco ct  tte ee
 ve  bd bed
bace tte
   coroee tte
fy ont  bl pt  bd rf
nm cs cS se ie es
c*  Te .
o”™ yet an it se et oe es
 eS rote  ye Et .
A. vont tte Ft toe .
: ay  Fe ae te aid ip
  Seer SIR:
  fous yee  se !
| et oe yet te es .
z BHP GHD te Piitot:
[|  es tte se Tt  e
(o) chee eT et  et
O Ve) oe et eS ae te
| re] toe  te
Ce) on oe)  Soft ye! ye
 tee oe Fe fp eS
a  ris  oa on aw Fe os
 ae SO we !
S ensrr
fxoP s. ——a --N.
  n
.  ros ‘So Sse i)
oe   x)  San  .
& o* ‘AK  tK
fen  .e  Ven  )
aa HO a, See  ao wp
A.  Sen  er
fz)  on "a N
a nN ae au  
m |
Za: bd owas
. oe of of  S
®  rt ovo
 om.. Qo mr) “a Oe “woes
  oc Bo OHS
me  Sif ed  
QA  wo t
  Qe ‘IE 
ign:  oO on r
rere: oon
bode Se
 er be END.
abn
pigs eRe .
o Sue Bice  
w ne ye!  ae Seg .
 Ae @®  CaaeLe
rae  Fg: er ($  :
&§  gil tB .- BS riig gS icc:
ra) et Bi  .€ Dita Sit:
rs)  iy "Oo Begeiis oe 
(  ont we ete ae
Zo  rae a
eo). le ibe
  i) HOHE
Leela
A it el)
wee Tiere
 ears  a) oC dees Bg fe:
  Ea gts gob aaes ae .
Bee trrae ta  :
rh .
: Engimeas lai  
Nn  oO aa  EES ae
Raree oo
Gan seaete ls |
Nn se  
TN cureaess Seg r
ome fue  Had
gene   gigs
  erties *
peered
  D)  So
RR ESE
Goa
Es

 @e#  @e@  #@
  or ririrres 
Lean} DP PPp appr irre S
 eS 
e #@* oe@ ‘
'@) eo, ion |
Piritiriiris|as
esCg
a  ]  |
 e# oe e®  @&  reel
eS eoe eo ye St
fo ta .-. ce  oe  oO
  es e& oe eS
oO
o ss.  #@ #@
ow  Soe
nm Oo re i
me rt ses oe e@ Ld
 Plir fs
  Sees NX
£    
sy reo ON wow
osee  s. e* or oS 
o so oe #+@®  me SS
z soe ers es oe tom} ce oD Sw SS  
D efovo a
. e® e@  @e@ oe  saa ad  vy) 

o TID COE COON  
oe @e
NOMNO OsS . e
ab Sila  .
  OF og ee
: |e eo: Soot
  Se .
 NO Ex Eg gean ig  fi it:
o eo ——
el   Bot!
 $}  fa Tt
 GS ‘|e ie ot
ary  ao) oe
 nD) e
 Hn TOAD 
a OD OND 
A :| fC:
 et ee,  ,
M RNID OD Noe  is SP  !
. oF aire  bug oO .
  a» bos
z Ife gE 
, Py 
; o- OY To
S  
jan)  a@   
: Pbbt s:  Me
Prbit ss ne OS OSS
ae zn ZH
Rill iee lig of
Ors. On -® Em Se
wt GO. ae
Ror tine OF
Sen icy ie
zoo.  of
aoe es oto  ree tt Se 
FesS  igese |
BSB --emond
 BER Eee 
£ iac 
ose St
Eu. FALS SS
AES kan
-hoe mM to,F
ziic Ros,
snp eRiggess
PRSELEESS  
on eive aaec .

a: os fs
. Fas) re] .
SS. wre NH SF .o  PrTrnN 
-o S&S OU NTN o
Ee AQ oe es N
r tal ov N

QO
e  Qa s
Sm. .
 bad bad oO Yo) a
 ol;mWUlUCU SDUUNNUDG  DA KH mt S&S bd
. Ps nN aby ae) oa on
| Se]  ten  te 
On te eo
 .
 .
Pai. AN ww
:  Bb §$ Oo oOo wf ww
ome Ww oS oO to té Faas)
Sus Co  —N  [Ja] oS
 ao NSN 
oo QQJo) mo Om Oo N
r oe -: ov”  Lo
Sal ran) .
Zz i) bd ry
ca) an ; ;
- .
a oF . sh
 :
low (ob)  .
f ro) .
, op @o .
ga CO .
   .
MM   bd *
Ss ra)  bd  Hh
 oe  e
opnq  r
iS fp    .
&  S:  Ad ry 
& co. bd  e
 . .
op ’
“gash .
o.  ee
“£ wig p.ofa cg Ss: Sg:
fx) Ga  Nios () Oo -m.
: n-ne eree O
Zz. "oOo wea Qa  we fume oe 
@m .»  dD oO: Ee. wa fo “Gq *
 Duo oh
—ae pe  im :
a -O-D+- n+ .O -B lia lit is is igs :
law} eB oe wD we (Pierce nie:
- od ou BIR sw  
e -wW  om (lew Sts  £:  e
Py ‘Sie ale: essa. Pe ig fe :
aeeet+O. :
-  Oo. ne  “go 'o'B eo
-w- "og  SEaSF "so: mo  :
bet oO BO ra) #.-  so] aw
BS -p Fag: Ae ie eS ca:
-S:- :- gist vey as: .
  bu Oo: faa: od Sos eB ko  .mo.s. aie  -mR-  S:  OF ee
bd ww, aa fob) e
. oa [—] “»@t Bs 
PO lg lez Za  -SA .' .
  Bea  tee FER BIBER:
; oe Se lew a? fe Se B: 
bd [| om .
oe  sf  it (as:
“gM -s- ee? oO Foes kU .
oom wees rs)  go &
A cg rat) BRES BS ogo HE
 reg tsp ss SSE GeG sr: an  e
  VN Ns, eS OMe non 
BS fh es Se FH -+*Nweea “Nea -N
ona atg , Va+  ABH ES
Bot MS oR EBS f.e 
SSPESts sane ae SmASses yee
  SLES gE Es By BABE SS ESE SRS
a Boa r-| PES ab cOes e
ao  as sO
Oo Ss) oO oO S&S &
oO oO O

a +r Ne Neate C—O Se Sd
  Qn |e se conn fe! er N
 aD wt OS CO te oO oS NU Olle
aHoOo  oO LJ ow uf ise]
N Co oO San] :
)
ber}
a) Ke AA ATE ww  SF OD
Sa ofanoh im Re AC
“  Do rirt  c. CO 
ae mt NA St et ON fo ON OO
a man Dt an
G)
On e
 
@ CS SCoYrfet own ow Oo @w
ZZ “* SS SC  SA SH MA ss
& Om we me t+NN :.)
. nm wor et WM OO wo HM Ye Fe
a) XN mo  rm o?
®
  e
 .
 .
ear) .
| *
fo} ee.  Um  es  “N  .
cS to a
oO   .
tome} ».  e
r)
a:
. on oe  es a
 es  
as a
ea) Ss ss  e
a asa ry .
“ Ay
var
mm e,.m UcC Ce  es s
pol ce a) oe  e
 fon s. .e  es
s (a) e@ .  .
R |)  ee. e
{x} as e
a a
Ch
  oe cs oc -J J “SS e
. -o  .. -o :-  -£  a:  -@® -»
e gw Rk.  ky *“@d .
Zz. mo mS  IB be Su  bus ae  Oo -B {xy -Treynes on ae  om -o-.* ow he
 ome  Bee ia a) -§ .- tT -O -Q.
Cg (Stee: Oo -@  oD mem:
 al.m..  .s  -& f& a! ew
QO es eS  er  e
  nm  -g ad
a om "ep  ie rego "eo ig ff oe a
Ss  (aig—-e  —
phe Ba ca]  Oo 
pu  +O    *Qee se a:
&S OH ya Stag tet et et  :@ ee
: 'k ss fH bd od a]  
e Cem ty  bo .m: .
Mong .'Oo"  ‘afc: .
Ex ”’ MW sDqg- -B -B “BeOS a
BSee ye SECS le SERS CE 
Ret o'HM a:b ORG MISE BeBe zee Oo ES
‘SSG IRA BE ESR BS  de SE
oo. an -omaqVo maw OM Loe
Sac  oi aT ore  Oi om a
be "@ 'w. ..  
a“ Su" HSA SNSIM SE JA  “£ sc -'g  [+ om 
ew es :s  wae Serie mse Bw hw —SASH SOS ER RVC ORTH AABN  
O soon SFT NSEN Ee  oF  ae ;
Eo eH cS. Benny oe   esas ga oa ®
qoavrovw eZza us QD Pt) Sess
a an are irri id eaeao ta Pa SESE -E ao &
eu Sie hoi gi UPeESELE Ears yenss
— ome 
pa nee oeee et et bet bel-ee-Dee-See
oO SF Ae ARERR F&F m& OD

  |
 
oO Ve)  ad Ve) bad iT) 
Ee Oo wmsto  oOo  oA ON ma of
Ve) bs S&S co oO
co pr  wt +S
  pes fo} es aQ ,. e
[| en) uw tr +r So
)  pear  
orm 
ad e
i) .
N re)
eo NOP ie Sa SO 
ae NaN  Oo  ON oe
 am Sa i) )
(o) tame wo  rt  CoO
O —— ys ae oc :e
- wN  .g
® s
Zao .
  re .
ta}  fo) re &
e Lhe t) “N fo a) rf (oan)
oS  (ir an oO
@ (T.)  [Ve] eo bd oS tnt +
to te éK  eo QQ oS
 iS.)  ra AQ CO Pes row]  ..
S  rt  ON ,
  ,) ..
  
(a soe ee
Le)  bd  e
[o) e
al *-@Oo
vt . “a 
os bl   :
a  "Soros
Ass co oe:
n a” ae Fo sor ag
.  
. .
ze BS foi oii Poor bobo toons
jc)     cf .
AQ’
| eo  
dp} ro  eoe
-gf- gs  ie Fae ce
  BIg: BE gees BBE
—  Oo So .& b-:* 
Z rot) nN. be pl  .&  
» -M so ne om Cl om .,
 .a. Oo. Se RRB:—
tent .a Py soe fo tt .
fs PB Eg Pgs Fe:
me CT :-U DU: ‘aca ‘a Beg ta lg "SB: te:
ica] et is  og (B's  -@. “OO:
  om” “OM mS)  e
A. oOo: Mm ww Sem  ac g
— -M ., RM  oe  -e og? sc -.-  .
S.nhege. “Oo -S- ‘Sip tbe:
g:  iw ie gig ie igi es:
Erg ig igsgigee  Cite:
wd Pig Boe gee  ‘gH  
Sasa mo re rn smh “OB:
om Mem MQ £, OD “os ry +a
Bn fn fn +B bo er ‘od og (De® BO .
fas eA pT -Ogs sees ns See aa) “a
  ro ad  OS ape ‘Meson -——
SALI sae Sa  HED  Qa:
Goh neg azteseaks ok mEae:
Ggezis ou BS we om pm DOeMES eG ow :
mn SSG ES  bok Sega :suaga FNS Reon Eng
a QF GT PGIP IS -CApgeod: o:
 Fan chsess se Be wD |
Ssaepaeas gsiddturoF went reese,
 g" abe ce obo seres JB  (a  ave
o  Ee   aM ou
of aged Sipe, teetisegesiidi ts!
oe)  na aov
oO fos] ev meas sotovous OD
do} io. S*] ane of bel  OT
rt orm nm Beant osx es asg
ss  a
» 
m OJ
|

an WM Ow: mw ON +- we.
he hg
  or Sm Mw, cn  —
QO uf [oa] va) Oo oO CON oO fa) wo ..,
&  NX on ro ee
S tk  m-  wm:  Oe.
Sn ta ive) CS on eo td 
SS wel wt ew wo! Are  nt
me oN wom oO tlUSle im me we fl om ft
» e
o
  
a
B
o mo  oS oS &:  OS fF OO: Os  ange SSH: TA Se So: e:-:
SS te Oo MN "oo mw SC Fe SO: wit!
bun ut ue us us  om) on Se) uf  uf .
  aN .
feb)   es *
& 

|
[os] ry  Cer) lop)  Oa Ve)   *» CO  ne ad
| DDD) UD we fe
Ce Co oe re)  e
Sa
r e
[op]
me  
eo
. om Coo es  ww
Pes if oi oft ot t@ eo rio: bob it oie
Cu go “ue mo iD
a 
mn ia™
a  “LO Oo 
—    “te Cae Ven] ,
  se e
e    e
a ;
-—
$ RP ao cic a) wd sz  Ad ad wd Cc e
m av .—  
fm Oo Bae .v  is .-o oO Oo fd e
"a "“@ een Pa pas t
Zz. ma an] mm ® 
& gs  Oo Ss ry -o ays} Hh -S -E e
  ce  -] -T] Sue 
— es eae e
 Oram IM CS Plo im CS IB ig id Fig fE:
 ose WMeg +O ry -o .- @& co a) ie an 
ao "es Mean -Z "Mm "@ -@ w@  ae 
am wm  pany  ren) is a) “eo  oD 
em mM ow  "oO wh ‘ss   fy e
. aw m—  -Qqom  om td  "@ *@ nD Ss) an)  /! .
a Se  ca lee: or -.B aS.
» bal o
E  .” (BES  WSS . .-E .
i  ES EUS ce gia:
wm. SF OS om Ee. oh. .G& .o. --@-.-  (S ew LT eS TER LOE RIE !
 (ee LF TR RS Hes, GS  em  oe
Ald zs Oo :f 
Sew  Eo)  fn Ceo me -O+r So  SS  fe OO oO bd 
a ge of he
) eens Oe -“ -@ -£ -a  Sivan|
tS ETEDE ML SSS Ts BE os
g SSPE Sia  Egen Sada iva ba  
ome -— od ont  o
So ETE SS STGSESSE Fala SSSsaq cas
 Sa ie) ie)  v
SSeS. oe Sig nS 
BH phone Ge ree TFs Cas? Oh BAH myo
pL a) hw OK  oa vo) como)
JP Dae eh By BSE Se SESS GO ES Oe
SotMA MIE ERR ES OSS CES SS ESESEESUS
SER SSSORA GI EQUAN “EP SOREN ENGINES
S  se

Be So fo a) ta uO fom) t- oO fom)
an FCeo ao htees wr SS "eo S&S
 OY Oe oS SHS wt So Ww [A OD
oe  ON OH Dm oc st mo Oo on! Sa
fo) mo  cow. oOo re et .
N .
 :
 mo oH NN SO Co Oo wf  OS  wo  OS
pace  AR At WAN NA  SC AS Ss
Ss nm wt mo nwonm NN Ke AN S&S  D
NMeonr ST win mo Oo ON  )
a mo  ws we  ,
Og
 ry) “a Dm oO -o oS
ARm Ae   em Se :;  SF  oOo Ow Do LS St aH  "t+ oS
. wN on wo ae)  Oo "oO
c) aera we oe ew wo  NO  re
  [a  tn e
[] :
|

|
[o] ry ry  ry  oS Oo .
'@)  ry ry  ry ry wo CS ry
| Se   ot DUD So: ;
en  cv ®
rm  se  se es ri)
fp) .
“ g
 ry e
fe cm . ry oe e
a
ie) os es eo oOo es
Q &&§ es es e.,  se 
Zs
mm
e QSe
—   Oo e
a  ,
 cra e
ic}  en .
a 

dp) Ja  eo .**  @
(  oe DD LOE SD Dig  Big .d .O  GS, eB,
— .w |S oa oom oO oc ome ae
 freee  
jc} ry tr ry “yp -@  Coe  OD  Ohme ae oe nd  cm -G .-Te .Z. ‘oo es .MW nt .o im .g§ nm .B Bie ow ,
 Ce
SIS ip ip (OB id fo TF TO TBS ft Ie ts
  om) fe io) ne oe
en “Ss  "@q@  
*  +-& "ap fap enYt ia  Se
oy (SIS (ele ep Se ESSE   ER ag!
pu ‘ae --aea Z aco
 -— -“ “me oe oe, fue mm beet  Suny  Ki Ua Ss 
an) come -Bmraearto —) a) +t ad Paced .
-B .& Beso bB SBS.
. os  Tf dp) Sg ground e
 .F.- Bb eaePm. sg -STe- .eBostamee.,
e:iosisege™aew  Sk Oleag esc OsEE
"@ gta"  vm or ease  cored 
‘sa fg an) fo) is fo} fo) Loera  omaeaea:
Bote ae ekBese os:
oO wm. af. -o ae.) Sr koie Ste .
-  wm MR Lo  eUs ea
ee  os gSus mogVeg st tus.
S COR, i.eo
n oS Sq :S HS  SEES:
x ‘EOROF ois be Ber Yd ig any in SOSE SS Tee:
gs oO em)  -W rot 
) ‘seuaUroneoHuRvEeHUe se? aN soc,
 IT ST ST*T gD OD OU Coo   LETTE
. yr,
S :eVcoVog,gedac aes skescse  sces Sian
q  “tortowez were usgrawswet, cant ats wus
MESES ERSRESCHOS SE OSL ERG ES SERS SEE
SR MORNE ECR RM SEHEAENEALA LC ADS SEZ Lew
oa Aa @&a  Aa fe ao eg SBS Ae
TIN RnR NR Nnn wn   RMR dpe  )

m N
| af re co Go
A  :
g PSA ES SL eS He Rlels
  sf FAS Sis /s
. CS]
  loo) an] oO
gi se  a
e un
  ae
[] AN lo s) uw Ves) re
  nN es es us  fo] oO in  a
&  .  co Oo wo ad ae  ‘
aP onw ea oa  oem tt tlse
o nN
Ds :
jae of
ed oe
  oOo nh Oo TF SOS oN
  oc WH NOW HM Oo wD te lo
, Sm ATIN OD HO BS SS FH IN tela

. ai mm ww ‘DB tale
uo) wn  on NDI DS BX oo
®  uo xt od

os  ON 
s  re rt oD -—
 wn oo
o  “tr ON ee
 "Ow ays  ed *
|  Ap oa   ort es es e
“ on  mC) we wf
   
m eo 
i)

e gj “tw OO  S
i ge "OW  —— avs  He
 eae "DNA .  bd  bd 

 tH es  oh an] Oo bd 
a  oc)ql
- Es oe  @
ea  rN  
J .

Ptr “tT se “N    Ve)  

  
be  "oH  se  QO
  .  ®
s on  o
a st   CS
a wn r.)
  
® d&  ae re od OF  "& fe   CO wu —,
Say Bit. ww OD ome  we te FTO EGMt  Az oS
Zz sR fe iS  th TR IO TB IS, Ii! age
‘A  .- rm
&  a
e ome ao  aot 'Z, “gg   Oo &
 on  al  al   bm
Ps aw,  oon  ae J
  UO om wa bel  
e m) igo ovet  )
jew  om TO .m re  ie -O  is
ra] "&  Mm com tm  ag  -A nn
a Gigi. EBB Lg RD a: at 'o
a  a) "R  aes) a?) fas OO Send
 Tg Di iis  an -o -AS
Pie -@  "S "Aas  as Be Es
a  bd fo]
 “ww "op ve) th  S
eco iB dead we eB eek
feb] o— e
ee an  be “fe
q  OL fw ms
— ?® or  
urs "s @ z
S  (me BZ Em cos  
an Og e:t np FOE: er
af  be om wm "a od Sow
og SHOP OG ag .Aa +E Ss
|  pot oO :
o Sng DM  lt
ee ag SPs Ie sEPS -§  
— |
[BaF Bo  NSEisZs On, snges
EGoe eh oto R@ae seg es
 ——— Ose Begever ae 
aor Boe Zsltrgou—ce
ESP SER EM Ee Rh Eset ene esr ae
r,
n   SB BS ne

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS  

STREET WATERING DEPARTMENT  .

Accounts Materials Payrolls Totals
Carts (water), operation... |
IIorne, Lowe D............  
Eleetrie sprinkler hydrants.  
Automobile ............  
Road oiling equipment.....  
Eleetric sprinkler operation  
Road oil used on roads (supphed by Texas Co., Standard Oil Co. and Indian .

Refining Co. ............ . 
Printing and supphes......  
Miscellaneous .............  
Street hydrants ...........  
Storage oll tank...........  
Timekeeper, salary ........  
Teams  ... ee   
O’Connell’s Sons, Daniel...  
Stock on hand............. 
Tools, maintenance ........  
Tools, new ..........-  
Hampden Glazed Paper and

Card Co., labor and mat’s  
Mt. Tom Golf Club, labor

and materials ........... 
Water gas oil (supplied by

G.&E. Dept. without cost)  
Total expenditures ........ 
Total appropriation, ree’ts

and transfers ........... 

s
oon
Ls .
®
fag
S)
Le] e
a
  bd   e
fo) ooroO te bd .
ak Ne  bd  bed e
ro) wR  m-) .
see  e& e@
  Sarr soto
ao  ek
ae TT coh oh or th ss
a   te  Py  uf GO Ld ry
OF CoO re  fy bs CO bl ry .
QO, BH . :.
  bd  : 
® 
Z Pbiooiis
  NN  .
ee
mo CD Dkye Et for) ww se  wa iS e
Sa (os *“ 
es  ry im -) .
  eo ew mm -) .
Zz om, .
 
mn .
 o) so  mm nes He RL HS reo
m EM  mt OO Seow NS NOS
  HOS AQ .e &wH Mois
bd  te te mes
Q ad N
oO
Q Sa
ai  :: egzgeemonrm  
fee Es Ss tas Ned mime FO! (mS nee
oO og nomm. Oe wee
 etre a
 a
)  
A, GS)  "mo Ooceo
e oo. "WOON wo oO
@ "oS  eR) oc e
 ‘Ha CO wi wt  ef OO .
Sort: [orl wales ra ome:
.   .
  aq .
e  bd od bed Cy .
SPOLbriig ri  : iiggp is:
. -cO  .
e . Py oi .
ee sororons  oS DI!
 —s bd  bo Sa .
.  . ano] .
  bd mn -s   *
ae os reDrce :a re "'age  si:
  eos eo ar]  Fe) ee
)  "go wa Oo ql  a} "aod [+  .
i) en  -..  @a  Ow. .
& Ss.
  oa eo  Woe &
 to EB wp to om a. w::  mm FD  e
ww (ERS eEgoeE (B  ap  S.
goa fas Now Dh he sORD eG  og
SEasS En Ww asuwaget ae
  Festntevs tessSagas wat
Sem Der etoe cE EPS SEP EEUS Saad @
SeSELETees  Seo ales ofa Low gw
DOSES Sexes q, 
TN  ®
fx je) OO "teOD Bo ook  OS a
a Ragen Fa soa
 Ss ge sgonm
TH

B wo lw
s ole
D 
by So
 
n e. UCe 
— 
ce bd
 ee.  
ro) ss. oe
oe he
 
—
Ss)
  an
sa itls
 a
os s..dUcC elf
Os ont  s
 ol ort Om; Home] NN 
: eiloani[e als
oz  NN 
; Leys }. mM wile
[-  a
 Pr fh  
: Ee mae wo wo wo ow
ron) sl :
se  |
 Dif ez. -go .
|- SG  e
o) ,
  .
m :/:  -E:
.  :/&  ee
 oS ifs x. -o e
So  Boot Ie
 os .O :
  “s :
  of
 -S ao |
n  se :
a ea ails Zo: -ee :
  DS "ele ge  Ug:  
a  SS  Ie:
a rw CO oD
aA oO: |
ww we $s  CO pu ise) g
eS ND key Ss
  a
O on e€ So RES EB
ee  Ven Zo To &
  gan &
 Dife  ce  Ke moda So ‘A oD o
 Ea ES @
s dv vhs w
a Pw ad ar)
So +s cr
' gs gi  
‘ cs gs &
B iw es
-Q
* fe

a

"
mn e
-  
mee UU
  me |
  ae 
a gos
Ass
“ae
oe
m a
 
oo
  (o)
ee

JURY LIST FOR  
A
Name Residence Occupation
Abbott Charles H. Allyn street Soap Manufacturer
Afsensky Samuel Elin street Peddler
Aitken Richard Wolcott street Paper Maker
Alben Robert E. Newton street Nat. Blank Bk. Co.
Alger Floyd C. Maple street Undertaker
Allair Napoleon Main street Helper Carriage Shop
Allen Henry Pleasant street Machinist
Allison Robert  Main street Supt. Envelope Shop
Ally Lorenzo Lyman street Clerk
Anderson Hugh E. Franklin street Elevator Operator
Archambault Albert Spring street Cigarmaker
Arent Stanley A. Park street Insurance Agent
Arnitz Frank Center street Weaver
Ashe Cornelius H. Pine street Blacksmith
Ashe Frank Sargeant street Brick Mason
Aubrey Samuel J. Prew avenue Pattern Maker
B

Bacon Amedee Papineau street Carpenter
Bacon Leo  South Bridge street Chauffeur
Baessler Carl B. Hampshire street Janitor

Bail Vincent Newton street
Foreman C. Ranger Const. Co.
Baker Michael J.  Bh street Brick Mason
Baker Michael J. Walnut street Book Binder
Ballard Willis D. Pearl street Manager C. T. T. Co.
Barger Abraham J. Dwight street Merchant
Barnett Andrew T. Chapin street Papermaker
Bartley James View street Whitmore Gl. Pa. Co.

JURY LIST  
Bathelt John Chestnut street
C. Ranger Const. Co.
Batchelder Walter F. Oak street Bookkeeper
Baush Henry Wolcott street Machinist
Baum Samuel Bh street Jeweler
Bazinet Charles E. Main street Clerk
Baxinet William Bowers street Brakeman
Beauchamp Ovila South Summer street
Chareoal Dealer
Beauchemin George E. Lyman street Carpenter
Beaudoin Treffle Sargeant street Weaver
Beaudry Wilfrid dd  South Summer street Loomfixer
Beaulieu Gideon East Dwight street Iron Molder
Beaulieu Louis T. South Summer street
Building Contractor
Beaverstock Elisha F. Main street Machinist
Beebe Arthur V. Princeton street Beebe-Web’r Co.
Beebe Elmer Chestnut street Merchant
Beers Homer South street Barber
Begley Patrick J. ov Congress avenue
Telephone Inspector
Begley Thomas J. Lyman street Foreman
Beique Adelard Chestnut street Clerk
Belanger Joseph Race street Retired
Bellefeuille Adolph High street Shoemaker
Bellerjeau James H. Chestnut street Tailor
Beman Guy H. Franklin street Bookkeeper
Benoit Stephen M. Walnut street Buteher
Benoit Toussaint O. W. Main street Painter
Bergeron Wilfred dd  South Summer street Painter
Bergeron Wilfred South East street Tiremaker
Bergeron William Lyman street Barber
Betsch Joseph V. Vernon street Painter
Betz Albert F. Dwight street Clerk
Boucher Norbert  St. James avenue Real Est. Agent
Bialkowsky William Adams street Hackman
Bibeau Louis Sargeant street Coal Dealer

  JURY LIST
Bibeau Ryno L. Sargeant street Bookkeeper
Bidwell White P. High street Shipping Clerk
Biggins William E. East Dwight street Grocer
Bigelow Thomas Front street Painter
Blackmer George Bowers street Cigarmaker
Blain Dieudonne East Dwight street Motorman
Blanchard Napoleon J. High street Laundry Prop.
Blanchard Ulric Sargeant street Real Est. Owner
Bogart Edward E. Allyn street
See’y Chase Cooledge Co.
Boissy Napoleon Center street Ruler
Bonvouloiw Sigfroid J. Chestnut street Salesman
Borlen Edward J. Sargeant street Motorman
Bosworth William E. Franklin street Luneh Room
Mouchard Nareisse West street Grocer
Boudreau Charles E. Main street Pool Room Keeper
Bork Henry C. Whiting avenue Merchant
Bourassa Telesphore J. Maple street Musician
Bourque Fred Taylor street Jeweler
Bourque Oliver Chestnut street Insurance Agent
Bousquet George N, Worcester place Barber
Bower James Franklin street Wire Weaver
Bowler Michael F. Gates street Electrician
Bover Frank Front street Belt Repairer
Bover Joseph Longwood avenue Printer
Bramham Harold E. Maple street Tinner
Brault Emery North East. street Machinist
Brennan Patrick Center street Clerk
Brennan Stephen J. Suffolk street Brick Mason
Bresnahan Cornelius J. Pine street Retired
Bresnahan Patriek Sargeant street Mason Tender
Brien Louis J. Jr. Main street Phunber
Briere Wilfred Chestnut street Barber
Briggs Samuel T. Carleton street Foreman
Brinkman Charles Dwight street
Printer and Musie Teacher
Bristol John Cabot street Paper Mill Op.

JURY LIST)  
Brockway Daniel B. Hampden street Insurance Ageut
Brodinsky David High street Merchant
Brooks Archibald A. Columbus avenue Wire Weaver
Brosnahan Stephen Lyman street Papermaker
Brown Michael C. Hampden street Sealing Wax Mfr
Brown Walter R. View street Foreman
Brunelle Albert South Summer street Muallwright
Brunelle Etienne O’Connor avenue Millwright ,
Bugbee Erwin J. Chestnut street Clerk
Burke Edmund F. North Canal street Second Hand
Bunnell William R. Meadow street Clerk
Burns Alexander Sargeant street Papermaker
Burns William T. Westfield street Shoe Dealer
Bushnell Charles M. Taylor street Laborer
Byrnes John J. Sargeant street Loftman
C
Cady Harry L. Lyman street Foreman Printer
Callahan Edward M. Allyn street Grain Dealer
Cameron Donald Pine street Boss Finisher
Cameron Finlay McE. South street Wire Weaver
Cameron Maleolm Elin street Clerk
Canfield Patrick W. North East street Iron Molder
Carleton George L. Dwight street Grocer
Carrier Jean B. South Summer street Case Maker
Carrier Florus W. Smith’s Ferry Insurance Agent
Carroll John H. Elim street Papermaker
Cartier Cyrille L. Main street Violin Teacher
Casey Timothy Newton street Blacksmith
Cassidy George B. Newton street Paper Mill Op.
Cavanaugh Daniel L. South street Cloth Presser
Cavanaugh Patrick Franklin street Papermaker
Cayer Albert E. Nonotuck street Cashier
Charland Dorie Lyman street Beamer Tender
Chaloux John East Dwight street Tinsmith

  JURY LIST
Chambers Henry High street Janitor
Champagne Phileas South Bridge street
Chapman Eugene Baker Cart Driver
Chestnut street  Superintendent
Chaput Ovila N. Ely street Merchant
Charette William Dwight street
Coburn Trolley Track Co.
Charest Odilon Z. E. Laurel street Furniture Dealer
Chevalier John F. School street American Pad Co.
Chevaher Olver West street Farr Alpaca Co.
Choquette Ernest Elm street Agent Nat. Bis. Co.
Chureh Ralph E. Newton street Electrician
Clare Patrick J. Mosher street Cutterman
Clark David Cabot street Papermaker
Clark George Bowers street Stonecutter
Clark James High street Inspector
(Yark William J. Sargeant street Thread Dresser
Clarke John S. Bh street Clerk
Clayton John J. North Bridge street Pa .Finisher
Cleveland Fred P. Tavlor street
See'y B. F. Perkins Son, Ine.
Cleveland Harry B. Lyman street Druggist
Clifford James J. Suffolk street Brick Mason
Chifford Patrick Bh street Lyman Mills
Cockroft Charles W. Merrick avenue Farr Alpaca Co.
Coderre Harry Elm street Printer
Coderre Homer South Bridge street Machinist
Coffey Damel Lyman street Book Binder —
Colby George Dd) Hamilton street Millwright
(Colton John C, Main street Dver
Connors Michael J. Sargeant street Insuranee Agent
Corridon Michael Davis street Molder
Corriveau Joseph Center street Retired
Coughlin Patrick Lyman street Clerk
Courtney Daniel E. Maple street Clerk
Courtney Wilham P. Frankhn street Driver
Connor Richard Bh street Manager

JURY LIST  
Considine Bartholomew J. Dwight street Shoe Clerk
Costello William H. Plymouth place Paper Jogger
Cowie Robert Jackson street Retired
Craig George Lincoln street Superintendent
Craigie John Thorpe avenue Machinist
Creran Charles J. Meadow street Painter
Crnnmins Daniel J. Congress avenue Beamer Tender
Cronin Edward Adams street Papermaker
Cronin Martin North Bridge street Size Maker
Cronin Michael Chestnut street Foreman
Crosier William J. Carleton street Salesman
Cross Fred Main street Paper Packer
Crossley Wailham Carleton street Dver
Crowley Cornelius F. Center street Plumber
Cullinan Martin G. Bowers street Conduetor
Cummings H. Perey High street Foreman
Cunningham Michael P. Cabot street Machinist.
Cunnumgham Henry P. Maple street Machinist
Curran John J. Pleasant street Clerk
Cuthbertson Archibald Walnut street Bookkeeper
D
Daigle Henry South East street Laborer
Daigle Noel Race street Clerk
Danehy Timothy Y. West street Papermaker
Danford Thomas E. Sargeant street Stenographer
Davignon Eugene Main street Violin Teacher
Daze William Park street Molder
Dean Eugene Elm street Mill Op.
Delaney William H. Lynwood avenue Painter
Desilets Emery Albion street Weaver
Devitt James Center street Papermaker
Devitt Wilham A. Newton street Papermaker
Dickinson Everett M. Lineoln street Insurance Agent
Dillon William J.  Northampton street Undertaker

  JURY LIST

Doane George W. Jr. Lincoln street Contractor
Docherty George Brown avenue Wire Weaver
Doherty Cornelius  Chestnut street Wire Drawer
Doherty Matthew Dwight street Plumber
Domingue Arthur  Mosher street Merchant
Donahue Edward Walnut street Ruler
Donahue Maurice G. Pine street Bookkeeper
Donnelly Cornelius Maple street Watchman
Donnelly James E. Sargeant street Marbler
Donoghue Cornelius J. Center street Janitor
Donoghue Michael J. Pine street Clerk
Donoghue Patrick F. High street |

Treas. Wagner S. B. Co.
Donoghue Patrick T. Maple street Papermaker
Donoghue Sylvester Hampden street Bookkeeper
Donovan Florence A. Pear] street Conductor
Dooley Edward H. North East street Papermaker
Dooling Thomas J. Davis street Beamer Tender
Doucette William Spring street Conductor
Dougherty Arthur J. Walnut street Clerk
Dougherty William T. Albion street Machinist
Dowd John J. Jr. Sargeant street Cigarmaker
Dowd Miehael Sargeant street Dyer
Dowd Patrick J. View street Traffic Manager
Dowdall Lawrenee  Bh street Newton Pa. Co.
Dreicorn Emil F. Washington avenue Merchant
Driscoll John F. Sargeant street Cloth Presser
Driscoll Stephen Elm street Voealist
Duclos Henry South Summer street Weaver
Ducharme Valere Pime street Grocer
Dubiel Andrew Canby street Real Estate
Durocher Alfred D. Jr. Park street Motorman
Dvdek Charles K. Ifigh street Jeweler

) JURY LIST  
E
Eagan John Cabot street Silk Sorter
Ellis Alexander A. Linden street Bookkeeper
Ellis Friend Chestnut street Machine Fixer
Elliott George A. Essex street Druggist
Emery Louis E. West street Gas Inspector
Emond Theodore R. Dwight street Clerk
Engel Albert Springfield street Clerk
Engel Herman Gates street Clerk
Enright John Lyman street Millwright Helper
Evans Charles Grover street Yard Foreman
Evans George J. Chnton avenue Bank Teller
Ezold Edward E. Pine street Clerk
F
Fahey Timothy C. Pearl street Compositor
Fales Herbert F. Harrison avenue Papermaker
Farrell James E. Maple street Tar Roofer
Fay Levi E.: Hampshire street Printer
Feather Frank Washington avenue Tinsmith
Femstein Bernett Fairfield avenue Leather Merch.
Ferguson Archibald Jr Morgan street Laundry
Fimbel Joseph L. Main street Machinist
Finn Martin North East street Fireman |
Fitzgerald John West street Carpenter
Fitzgerald Maurice E. Sargeant street Laborer
Fleming Urban Lyman street Mule Spinner
Fleming Wills M. Maple street. Draughtsman
Fivnn Daniel Dwight street Insuranee Agent
Foley Robert J. Chestnut street Loftman
Forbes Stephen A. Avon Place Loonifixer
Forgette George Temple street Mill Hand
Fortune William D.  Ferguson Place Sales Manager
Fournier John L. Main street Book Binder

  JURY LIST
Fox John P. Maple street Beamer Tender
Fox Patrick Dwight street Beamer Tender
Franeoeur Samuel L. Hampshire street Barber
Frappier Henry Dwight street Clerk
Fredericks Edwin Chestnut street Mill Worker
Fredericks William Lawler street Ruler
Fringelin Joseph C. Ferguson Place Stationer
Frost George E. Congress avenue Musician
Fyfe Robert Maple street Millwright
G

Gallivan Andrew TD. A. Davis street Florist
Gallivan Daniel J. Nonotuck street Florist
Gallup Augustus T. B.  ak street Clothier
Garen Moses P. Sargeant street Druggist
Garrity Edward North Bridge street  Steamfitter
Gehan Thomas Walnut street Stock Clerk
Geissler Gustave A. Vernon street Clerk
Geissler Max G. Vernon street Barber
Gendron Homer Princeton street Nat. Bl. Bk. Co.
Geran Patrick Bh street Janitor
Gero William B. Glen street Retired
Gilbert Alfred O. Lyman street Grocer
Gilligan Michael H. Hampden street Piper
Gilpatrick Fred EL. Chestnut street Real Est. Agent
Gingras Amedee High street Undertaker
Ginley Patrick J. North East street Machine Tender
- Glassman Louis Dwight street Merehant
Gleason Michael J. Maple street Overseer

Goddu Joseph D. Prospect street
Sealer of Weights and Meas.
Goehring Henry E. Park street Machinist
Gold Harry Elm street Merchant
Golden Patrick Sargeant street Laborer
Goodhind Charles SO Chapin street Wire Weaver

JURY LIST  
Goodrich Charles H. Bowers street Laborer
Goodyear Austin B. Laurel street Clerk
Gordon Louis Northampton street Shoe Dealer
Gordon Michael J. Elm street Stonecutter
Goss Elbert Elm street Foreman
Grandfield Michael Mosher street Ruler
Greaney Frank L. Walnut street Grocer
Griffin Bartholomew High street Machinist
Griffin Eugene Pine street Barber
Gritfin James Walnut street Grocer, Butcher
Griffin John Newton street Farr Alpaca Co.
Griffin Joseph F. Pleasant street Insurance Agent
Griffin Joseph F.  Dwight street N. E. T. T. Co.
Grise Romuald North East street Butcher
Gubbins Thomas E. Congress avenue Steamfitter
Guertin Theophile J. O'Connor avenue Shoe Clerk
H
Hagenlocher Conrad Munroe street Nat. BI. Bk. Co.
Hagerty Dennis ML. Rear North East street Grocer
Hagerty Jeremiah East Dwight street Mach. Tender
Haggerty James J. Waldo street Foreman Printer
Halket Thomas Hampshire street Printer
Hall William J. Hiteheock street Wire Weaver
Hamel George High street Barber
Hamilton Thomas H. Maple street Printer
Hancock Thomas Maple street Papermaker
Hand Owen L. Clinton avenue Clerk
Hannan James P. Davis street Salesman
Hannon Dennis F. Walnut street Clerk |
Hargaden Thomas a) Pearl street Barber
Harper John Dwight street Coachman
Harrington John R. Maple street Consulting Engineer
Harrop Samuel R. Bh street Wool sorter
Hart Nelson W. Nonotuck street Bookkeeper

  JURY LIST
Hart Thomas J. Elm street Paper Mill Op.
Hart William M. Congress avenue Clerk
Harty James J. Dwight street Clerk
Hartzel Leander C. Maple street Awnings and signs
Hebert Albert Main street Auto Repairer
Hebert Arthur Nonotuck street Druggist
Hennessey Wilham Chestnut street City Gas Works
Hiebel Edward Hitecheock street Carpenter
Higgins John F. Main street Sheet Metal Worker
Hirsch Morris Pine street Jeweler
Hobert James P. Maple street Undertaker
Holley Benjamin South street Molder
Hollis Stephen Essex street Watchman
Holman Arthur G. Cabot street Clerk
Holmes Arthur P. Westfield road Laundryman
Holmes Asa EI. Chestnut street Pool Room Keeper
Hopwood Walter J. Chestnut street Machine Fixer
Horne Linville D. Washington avenue Bookkeeper
Hull Morton Dwight street Lemuel Sears Co.
Hurlburt Arthur P. Park street Insuranee Agent
Hyde James H. Jr. North Canal street Ship’g Clerk
I
Isenburg Joseph Maple street Merehan*
J
James John M. Bh street Clerk
Jacques Iilaire Jr. South Bridge street Carpenter
Jarry Peter L. South Canal street Engineer
Johnson George B street Hadley Thread Co.
Jovee Thomas J. High street Machinist
Jubinville Willam Samosett street Motorman
Judd Clifford K, Wilhams street Judd Paper Co.
Jurasz Peter High street Merchant

JURY LIST  
K

Kalloch Henry Pine street Painter
Kane Peter T. High street Whitmore Mfg. Co.
Keating William P. Charles street Deane St. P. Co.
Kelliher Jeremiah F. Adams street Cloth Inspector
Kelliher Maurice Sonoma place Papermaker
Kelly Edward C. Linden street G. E. Dept.
Kennedy Daniel J. High street Holvoke High School
Kennedy John F. North East street Grocer
Kennedy Joseph J. Maple street Bookkeeper
Kerin Michael Bh street Retired

Kermode William J. Thigh street Weaver
Keslevy Efvman Elin street Tailor
Kielv Bartholomew  High street Laborer
Kidnay James W. Pine street Clerk
Kilian Frederick O'Connor avenue Bookkeeper
King Neil C. Taylor street Laundryman ,
Kingsbury Everett G. Nonotuck street Salesman
Klemm Robert C. Allvn street Watchmaker
Knapp Ralph C. ov Laurel street Bookkeeper

: Knightly Franeis R. Loeust street Compositor
Knowles Patrick H. Newton street Time Keeper
Kopesky Francis Chestnut street Clerk
Kramer Keorge J. Newton place Hardwood Finisher
Kueehler Riehard F. Sargeant street Book Binder

L

Labarge Louis Main street Baker
Labbee George Center street  Clerk
Lachapelle Godfrey Park street Section Hand
Lacombe Edward J. Congress avenue Clerk
Lacroix Armand Park street Buteher
Lacroix George W. Maple street Book Binder
Lade Robert Jr. Pleasant street Toolmaker

ieye.
  JURY LIST

Lafontaine Adelard Park street Laborer
Lafrance Charles Suffolk street Foreman
Lahberte Orient Jackson street Contractor
Lamarehe Albert L. High street Painter
Lambert Willam Suffolk street Millwright
Lamberton Louis High street Teaming Business
Lang Andrew B street Asst. Foreman
Langelier Vietor Jr. North East street Harness Maker
Langlois Eugene Lyman street Machinist
Larkin Michael O. Glen street Musie Dealer
Laskin Max Main street Clothier
Lawler Edward Maple street Paper Ruler
Lawler Henry J. North East street Salesman
Leary Jeremiah Maple street Silk Mall Op.
Leary John J. Hitcheock street Clerk
LeDue George H. Chestnut street Casemaker
Ledue Hormisdas Spring street Miller
Lefebvre Frank Appleton street Com. Traveler
Leining Fred Clark street Bookkeeper
Lemieux Adelard Lyman street Rubber Shop Op.
Levenson Henry Hitchcock street Clerk

Levenson Joseph Maple street Clothing Business
Linehan Frank  Dwight street City Gas Works
Little Arthur W. Cook street Salesman
Livermore Walter C. Northampton street Bookkeeper
Long David A. Iampshire street Shop Helper
Loudon John D. Park street Papermaker
Lueey Cornelius F. Sargeant street Bookkeeper
Lucey John E. Dwight street Teamster
Lyman Ralph W. Washington avenue Clerk
Lyons Timothy F. Elm street Pressman
Lynch Dennis F. Chestnut street Insurance Agent
Lynch Maurice Dwight street Brick Contractor
Lyneh Michael J. North East street Livery Stable
Lynsky Patrick J.  Ely street Clerk
Lyons Thomas P. Hampden street Electrician

JURY LIST .
M .

Madsen Jens J. Lincoln street Printer
Malcolm Allen J. Carleton street Wire Weaver
Magna Russell W. Madison avenue Auto. Dealer
Maley David J. Mosher street ‘Laborer
Marks Michael A. Pine street Tailor
Maroney Michael F. Fountain street Laborer
Marra Owen J. Pleasant street Stone Contractor
Marx Henry J. Brown avenue Machinist
MacDonald John Oak street Clerk
MeDonnell John F. East Dwight street Stonecutter
MeBride David Chapin street Papermaker
McCarthy Joseph J. Elm street City Laborer
McCarthy Felix Whiting avenue Laborer
MeCarthy Eugene J. Fairfield avenue Music Teacher
MeCarthy Frederick Woreester place Hol. Mach. Co.
MeCarthy James S. Hampshire street Farr Alpaca Co.
McConville Cornelius Sargeant street Machinist
MecCrohan Brandon T. High street Steamfitter
MeCullough Thomas Dwight street Cigarmaker
MeDonald Edward J. Dwight street Insurance Agent
MeDonald Frank E. Appleton street Skinner Sons
MeDowell Thomas Y. Chestnut street Trav. Salesman
MeGrath Williain F. East Dwight street Mer. Th.Co
MeGowan Malcolm E. Sargeant street Bookkeeper
MeKenna Patrick J. Dwight street Grocer
MeIntee John J. Chestnut street Bookkeeper
MeLean Thomas View street Upholsterer
MeQuillan Franeis P. North Canal street Foreman
MecTearnen James Chapin street R iving Clerk 
McTigue Peter Pine street Coburn T. T. Co.
Meehan Francis J. Bowers street  Watchman
Menard Adelard C. Olive avenue Merchant
Menard Victor South East street Stamper
Menard Victor E. Center street Merchant
Meon Martin Hampshire street Tailor

  JURY LIST
Meunier Gerald Sargeant street Shoe Clerk
Merrick J. Leonard Walnut street Lumber Business
Messier George W. Chestnut street Jeweler
Messier Henry North East street Iron Moulder
Messier Victor South Bridge street Newspa. Agt.
Migneault Samuel Main street Dentist
Minkley Gustave Adolph Park street Millwright
Miles Edwin B. Elm street American Th. Co.
Millane Cornelius J. Fountain street Bookkeeper
Milos Joseph Lyman street Tailor
Mills William J. Walnut street Merchant
Miner Thomas Suffolk street Bookkeeper
Mongeau George Jr. Oak street Clerk
Montealin Rock East Dwight street Clerk
Monty Louis C. Oak street Hol. Street Ry. Co.
Moquin Rene J. Pine street Real Estate
More Anthony Cabot street Book Binder
Morgan Ernest Hampden street Contractor
Morrison William J. Walnut street Janitor
Morse William A.  Pleasant street See. Y. M.C. A.
Mullen David Newton place Machinist
Mullen Edward  Center street Fisk Rubber Co.
Murphy Michael Jackson street Fireman
Murray Lachlan MeLean  High street Printer
Murphy Stephen F. Pleasant street Barber
Murray Thomas N. Pleasant street Clerk
Mvers George Dwight street Foreman
Mvers James High street Shipping Clerk
. N
Nadeau John B. Park street Baker
Naughton Alexander Chestnut street Papermaker
Naughton Alexander Jr. Hampshire street Printet:
Neill Robert G. Dwight street Painter
Nelligan Dennis F. Bh street Bricklayer
Neumann Paul O. Vernon street Electrie Inspector

JURY LIST  
Newell Arthur J. Washington avenue Managr
Newton J. Bertram Franklin street Paper Business
Newton Milo E. Franklin street Machine Fixer
Nolan Farrell Center street Packer
Nolan James F. School street Watchmai
Nolan Joseph P. Elm street Clerk
Noonan George B. Clinton avenue Linotype Operator
Norton William North East street Clerk
Nugent Richard Pine street Manager
Oo
O’Brien Frank Walnut street G. E. Dept.
O’Brien Patrick J. Maple street Barber
O’Brien Walter J. Appleton street Nat. B. Book Co.
O'Connell Henry Mosher street  Finisher
O'Connell Daniel JJ. Dwight street Contractor
O’Connell James F. South Summer street Papermaker
O’Connell James H. O’Connor avenue Real Est., Ins.
O'Connell Nicholas Maple street Merrick Th. Co.
O’Connor Arthur V. North East street Insurance Agt.
O’Connor John Pine street Bookkeeper
O'Donnell John J. Lyman street Paper Finisher
O’Donnell Terence  North Bridge street Shoe Dealer
Olroyd Thomas High street Farr Alpaca Co.
O’Leary Arthur J. Appleton street Traffic Manager
O'Neill Eugene T. North East street Brick Mason
O'Neill John Le Sargeant street. ‘Conductor
O'Neill Joseph Brown avenue Wire Weaver
O’Neill Lawrence A. Walnut street Insurance Agent.
O'Neill Thomas E. Dwight street Weaver
O’Toole John J. Suffolk street Contractor
Owen Emmett E. Center street Powers Pa. Co.
Osgood Edgar M. Washington avenue H. W. .Co.

  JURY LIST
Pp

Parks John H. Cabot street Foreman
Parsons George  S. Waldo street Paymaster
 Paul Theodore Jackson street Stock Clerk
Parent Henry J. Newton street Barber
Parent Ludger High street Cigar Mfr.
Pariseau Henry South Bridge street Millwright
Parmalee Elmer H. Cleveland street  Life Ins. Supt.
Pauze Eddie Bond street Merchant
Pease Arthur F. Pearl street Butcher
Peck Lewis F. Hitcheock street Clerk
Peltier Joseph A. North East street Retired
Pendergast William J. Congress avenue Molder
Person Lueius Elm street Electrician
Perry Albert H. Whitney avenue Motorman
Pfanner Joseph Newton street Skinner Sons
Phillips Walter S. Essex street Bookkeeper
Pigeon Henry Wolcott street Baker
Pinchuck Meyer Harrison avenue Dry Goods Mer.
Poetzsech Arno C. Chapin street Painter
Ponton Wilfred High street Cigarmaker

Popp Hugo Sycamore street
Water Wheel Tester
Potolsky Lewis M. Elm street Dry Goods Merchant
Potvin Adelard Walnut street Clothier
Powers Richard M. Hampshire street Cigarmaker
Pratt Alexander High street Cloth Presser
Prentice Frederick W. Washington avenue Foreman
Prentiss John J. Dwight street G. E. Dept.
Preissler Martin Essex street Plasterer
Preseott Wilham II. Roosevelt: avenue Salesman
Provost Charles Center street Bricklayer
Purvis Andrew Carleton street Foreman

JURY LIST  
Q .
Quigley Michael F. Maple street Expressman
Quigley William A. Ely street Clerk
Quirk Jeremiah W. Suffolk street Merchant —
Quirk Thomas Dwight street Eureka R. B. Co.
R
Rand A. Judson Fairfield avenue Jeweler
Randall Charles P. Pearl street See. Parsons Pa. Co.
Ratelle Oliva Park street Landlord
Regan James J. High street Retired
Regan John T. South Canal street Foreman
Reihl J. Edward Elm street Overseer
Revett Frank H. Carleton street Pluinber
Reynolds Thomas F. Olive avenue Brick Mason
Rheaume Charles South Summer street Meat Cutter
Rice Guy A. Walnut street Paymaster
Ricker Fred N. Maple street Engineer
Riel Hector Worcester place Hardware Clerk
Rielly Richard P. Appleton street Auto Repairer
Rigali Louis A.  Dwight street Clerk
Ring Joseph A. Lincoln street Merchant
Robb Walter St. Jerome avenue Cigarmaker
Roberts Charles S. Sargeant street Overseer
Roberts Napoleon Center street Merchant
Rock Leslie C. Hampden street Baker
Rourke Edward J. Jr. Race street Janitor
Rowan Anthony J. North East street See. K. of C.
Rowan Michael J. North East street Clerk
Russell Daniel J. East Dwight street Stonecutter
Ryan William Maple street St. Ry. Conductor JURY LIST
HS)

Sainte Marie Hormisdas Hampshire street Clerk
Sampson Charles Bb. Northampton street Grain Dealer
Sattler Emil E. Upper Springfield road Laborer
Sawin A. Allan Allvn street Clerk H. W. P. Co.
Scheibel Julius aA. Meadow street Clerk
Schlichting Herman F. Meadow street Weaver
Schuster Christian F. Maple street Lumber Business
Seanlon John Maple street Presser
Seannell Michael South Canal street Brick Mason

Schroeder Henry E.  South Bridge street —
Cigar Manufacturer
| Schubach Paul Main street Gymnasium Inst.
Sears Frank M. Lincoln street Boiler Mfr.
Seibel John Jr. Newton street Wauregan Pa. Co.
Senior Charles A. Hampden street Merchant
Shaw Walter Taylor street Grocer
Shea Humphrey H. North East street Paper Mill Op.
Shea James J. Wolcott street Tiremaker
| Shea John D. Brown avenue Pressman
Shea John F. Jr. Lexington avenue Real Est., Ins.
Shea Michael J. Temple street Teamster
Shea Patnck Maple street Yardman
Shea Patrick A.  Congress avenue Undertaker
Shea Patrick T. Maple street Book Binder
Sheehan Dennis J. Bh street Foreman
Sheehan Edward F. Bh street Produce Dealer
Sheehan John D. Lyman street City Gas Works
Shelley Frank A. Newton place Mechanic
Sheridan John F. West street Carpenter
Short Peter J. Spring street Papermaker
Sickman Albert F. Lincoln street Hydraulic Eng.

all William —A. Ferguson place

. Painter and Paper Hanger
Silverman Benjamin Elin street Merchant
SkolInik Abram  Lanrel street Dry Goods Merch.

, JURY LIST  
Smethurst’ John Sargeant street Machinist
Smith Albert Magnolia avenue Jeweler
Smith Clarence E. Walnut street Chef
Smith John E. Lineoln street Machine Fixer
Smith J. O. Ceade Bowers street Drug Clerk
Smith Oren B. Clark street Salesman
Smith Theodule Sargeant street Butcher, Grocer
Solin Jacob Lyman street Grocer
Spamer George T. South street Machinist
Sparks Daniel E. Appleton street Motorman
Sparrow William A. Chestnut street Plumber
Spenlenhauer John Brown avenue Shipping Clerk
Squire John P. Lyman street

Freight Depot, B. M. R. R.
Stache Gustave South street Plumber
Stansfield Thomas Myrtle avenue Real Est. and Ins.
Stebbins Homer  Main street Overseer
Stedman Ernest F. Beacon avenue Nonotuck Div.
Stewart John Cabot street Merrick Th. Co.
St. George Arsene Main street Clerk
Stone W. Willard Pine street Moving Pictures
Stanton Patrick G. Hampden street Bindery Foreman
Stratton Edward Dwight street
Newspaper Correspondent
Strauss Louis Oak street Clothier
Stursburg Paul W. Harvard street Germania Mills
Sullivan Dennis P. Newton street Plumber
Sullivan John M. Franklin street Chemical Pa. Co. ,
Sullivan Matthew Mosher street Clerk
Sullivan Maurice Congress avenue Brick Mason
Sullivan Joseph F’. Lyman street  Clerk
Sullivan Michael J.  Hampden street Brick Mason
Sullivan Patrick Linden street Laborer
Sullivan Patrick J. Center street Time Keeper
Sutton William High street Papermaker
Swenson Frank P. South Canal street Collector

  JURY LIST
T
Taber Elwyn L. Yale street Sec. Board of Trade
Tauscher Ernest R. James street Machinist
Taylor Charles L. Pine street Machinist
Theilig Paul Elm street Deane St. Pump Co.
Thereault Noel Main street Laborer
Therrien Alfred East Dwight street Conductor
Thomas Harry Sargeant street Candy Salesman
Thoinpson John Pine street Papermaker
Thornton Edward J. East Dwight street Papermaker
Thorpe Henry F. Westfield street Bookkeeper
Thorpe Reginald E. Waldo street Carpenter
Tiedemann Max K. Linden street Clerk
Tilley Clifton F. Morgan street Furniture Dealer
Toepfert Joseph M. Laurel street Book Binder
Tormey John C. Bh street Merchant
Towne William E. Oak street Publisher
Tracy Michael D. St. Jerome avenue Beamer Tender
Trainor Edward Chestnut street Papermaker
Trudeau Dolphis J. Elm street Insurance Business
Turner William Franklin street Bookkeeper
Twing Edward L. Stamford street Insurance Bus.
V
. Vallee Joseph Pine street Shipping Clerk
Vaughan James Newton street Electric Light Sta.
Vester Herman Brown avenue Photo Finisher
Viens Wilham Center street Collector
Vines John Brown avenue Foreman
Vining Ralph S. Smith’s Ferry Bookkeeper
Vogel Frank L. So Main street Machinist

JURY LIST  
WwW

Wade Charles Jackson street Twister
Wall James J. Pine street Draughtsman
Wallington Mark Pearl street Rag Room Foreman
Walsh James O’Connor avenue Retired
Walsh John D. North East street Insurance Agt.
Warnock Henry C. Hampden street Paymaster
Washington Arthur G. Hampden street Plumber
Waters Owen Elm street Dyer
Watson Charles E. Chestnut street Insurance Bus.
Webber Frank C. Essex street Deane St. P. Co.
Weir Thomas Y. Pleasant street St. Ry. Conductor
Weissbach Max Park street Machinist
Welch John E. Park street Shipping Clerk
West Fred F. Dwight street Musician
West George H. Jackson street Painter
Wheeler Albert K. South street Foreman
Whitehouse Watson T. Pearl street Clerk
Widdowson William Center street Clerk
Wileox Frank G. Myrtle avenue Librarian
Wildman Joseph Taylor street Baker
Wildner August J. Main street Grocer
Williston Roland South street Ely Lumber Co.
Wilmot Bernard J. B street Finisher
Winkler Frederick A. Washington avenue Concrete Bus.
Winn James H. Park street. Papermaker
Wolfe Charles H. Chestnut street Overseer
Wolfenden Arthur E. Ferguson place Clerk
Wolfenden Robert Pine street Grocery Business
Wolman Benjamm Longwood avenue Dry Goods Mer
Wolohan James J. O’Connor avenue Overseer
Wood Henry Franklim street Presser
Woodbury Herbert G. Maple street Bowling Alleys
Worden Robert M. St. Jerome avenue

Wrinkle Lawrence E. Suffolk street Clerk
Wvilie Willham Linden street Machinist

  JURY LIST
Y
Yelle Joseph E. Elm street Paper Mill Op.
Yelle Maxime Park street Teamster
Yenlin Sebastien Jr. High street Baker
Young Edwin C. Walnut street Supply Clerk
Z
Zellars Frank L. Elm street Clerk
Zielinski John  Davis street Organist
Prepared in accordance with the requirements of Chapter  
of the Acts of  .
JAMES J. DUNN,
CHARLES J. PERRY,
ALEXANDER J. THERRIEN,
JOHN F. SHEEHAN,
Board of Registrars of Voters.

CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
- Mayor, WILLIAM B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —William Grover. d—John O'Donnell. |
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Aug. Stursberg.  —J. F. Allen.
 John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsey.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —William Ruddy, Curtis Moore, James Ruddy.
Ward  —C. B. Harris, S. F. Stebbins, G. W. Burditt.
Ward  —Martin Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew Walsh.
Ward  —H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt, W. D. Higgins.
Ward  —Maurice Lynch, J. A. Sullivan, John O’Connell.
Ward  —C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick, John Delaney.
Ward  —H. A. Pratt, Reuben Winchester, R. M. Fairfield.
Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsey.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN. |
Ward Ward
 —Wilham Grover.  —Edw. O'Connor.
|  —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Matthew Walsh.  —J. F. Allen.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsey.
COMMON COUNCIULMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.
Ward  —John Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, H. G. Smith.
Ward  —Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler.
Ward  —S. J. Donahue, Peter McKeon, BK. A. Newton.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —Horace Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben Winchester. )
Clerk, C. W. Rider. |
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsey.
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
City Messenger—J. H. Chifford.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLAM B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —William Ruddy.  —Maurice Lynch.
 —C. B. Harris.  —C. H. Heywood.
 —H. Springborn.  —J. F. Allen.
 —S. J. Donoghue.  Clerk, E. A. Ramsey.
COMMON COUNCIUMEN.
President, G. H. Smith.

Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, G. H. Smith, E. Whitaker.
Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J. S. Webber.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O’Donnell.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M. Manning.
Ward  —A. D. Barker, J. BE. Delaney, J. H. Newton. |
Ward  —H. C. Ewing,  S. T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk, C. W. Rider. .
City Clerk—KE. A. Ramsey. ,
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
City Messenger—J. H. Clifford (deceased), J. R. Howes.

§  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ROSWELL P. CRAFTS.
: ALDERMEN.

Ward Ward
 —M. J. Teahan. o—D. H. Donoghue.
 —G. H. Smith.  —C. H. Heywood.
 —H. Springborn.*  —G. P. Ellison.

A. Stursburg. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
 —S. J. Donoghue. .

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
| President, C. D. Colson.

Ward  —John Ford, Richard Patte, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaae Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Michael Lyneh, M. M. Mitivier.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sulilvan.
Ward  —E. W. Chapin, E. A. Ramsey, Porter Underwood.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—J. E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Resigned.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WLLIAM WHITNG.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —T. S. Grover.  —(". D. Colson.
 —C. H. Harris.*  —D. E. Sullivan.
G. H. Smith.  William Skinner.
 —A. A. Stursberg**  —G. P. Ellison.
James Stafford. Clerk, J. BE. Delaney. .
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. EB. Syms. |
Ward  —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaae Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, BE. F. Sullivan.
Ward  +—Jaimes P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte Marie.
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, EB. O'Connor, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Henry C. Cady, J. S. MeElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Died March **Resigned. ,

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, WILLAM WHITNG.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —Wilham Ruddy. a—D. E. Sullivan.
 —F. R. Norton.  —William Skinner.
 —Henry Winkler.  —Williain S. Perkins.
 —-Charles D. Colson. Clerk, J. EK. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
* President, John O'Donnell.
Ward  —G. Ainshe, James Greeley, John D. Walsh.
Ward  —John KB. Bronson, John .Hart, Franklin P. Goodall.
Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.
Ward +—Victor Guyott, Peter MeKeon, T. J. Ryan.
Ward  -—Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O’Donnell
Ward  —H. C. Cady, J.  S. MeElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden
W. Prentiss.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
(ity Treasurer—C, W. Ranlet.
City Messenger James R. Howes.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM RUDDY.
ALDERMEN. |
Ward Ward
 —John W. Walsh.  —John O’Donnell.
 —F. .Norton.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —Henry Winkler.  —William S. Perkins. )
 James P. Casey. Clerk, James E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James Greeley.

Ward  —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranger.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W. Maher.
Ward  —John L. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John MeDonald.
Ward  —Peter Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy J.

Ryan.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy Haley.
Ward  —Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A.

Whiting.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John B.

Munn.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, FRANKLIN P. GOODALL.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —Casper Ranger. o—D. J. Landers.
 —Fred Morrison.  —E. A. Whiting. |
 —P. J. Sheridan.  —R. Winchester.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. |
President, Hervey K. Hawes.
Ward  —Michael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel S. Chapnan. |
Ward  —Rovyal C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller, Dwight O.
Judd.
Ward  —Herbert Licks, Lyman Thorpe, Charles R. Huebler
Ward  +-—George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E. Herbert.
Ward  —James S. Lee, John F. Shea, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H.
Smith.
Ward  —Charles C. Tastings, Lyman B. Moore, John B.
Munn.
Clerk, Simon Brooks. .
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C, W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ROSWELL P. CRAFTS.
. ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O'Donnell.
 —Isaace Tirrell.  —Williain A. Chase.
 —C. R. Huebler.  —W. T. Dean.
 Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Amos Andrews.
Ward  —William Brennan, James Spillane, William H. Jess
Ward  —E. R. Pierce, Joseph Beauchemin, George W.
Richards.
Ward  —J. K. MeCarthy, D. Driscoll, W. E. O'Keefe.
' Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward d—Maurice Lyneh, Thomas’ Pendergast, Michael
O’ Keefe.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, H. H. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk, J. F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
. City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.

City Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ROSWELL P. CRAFTS.

ALDERMEN.

Ward Ward  —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.
 —Isaae Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —John T. Lynch.  —W. T. Dean. :
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. O. Warner.

Ward  J—Wilham H. Jess, John Sheridan, M. C. Browne.
Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —J. K. MeCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal. |
Ward +—Dennis E. Herbert, Frank S. Lynch, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sullivan.
Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, D. H. Ives, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—Miechael J. Griffin.
Citv Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—Charles M. Tackett.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —James Greeley.  —E. O’Connor.
 —Isaae Tirrell.  —Elias P. Ford.
 —John T. Lynch.  —C. C. Hastings.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey.
Ward  —George W. Richards, Didace Sainte-Marie, Thomas
H. Sears.
Ward  —John Lowcock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.
Ward  —William Sullivan,” Matthew Doherty, Thomas
O’Donnell, Amedee F. Gingras.
Ward  —Roger P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody, Michael
Manning.
Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli I. Brockett, John J. Reardon. :
Ward  —Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M.
Gilmore.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton. ,
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Died November .

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward William Reardon. o—R. P. Donoghue.
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Eli I. Brockett.
 —John K. McCarthy.  —John E. Clark.
 John .Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.

Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G. MeCarthy.
Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F. Doyle.
Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F. Canavan.
Ward £+—Thoias O'Donnell, P. F. Carmody, Matthew Doherty.
Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas T. Fitz| gerald. .

Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting, John L. Buringame.
Ward  —John K. Judd,  B. Allyn, S. M. Gilmore,* George

W. Doane.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
Citv Treasurer—E. L. Munn.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
* Resigned. :

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O'CONNOR. |
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —J. J. Sheridan.  —R. P. Donoghue.
 —Francis J. Curley.  —William E. Syms.
 —James J. Curran.  —John E. Clark
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John K. Judd.
Ward  —James C. Keough, William A. Casey, Jeremiah G.
MeCarthy.
Ward  —James H. Fitzsimmons, Edward Donahue, James
W. Toole.
Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J.
Westphal.
Ward  —James H. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning, Matthew
Doherty.
Ward  —James F. Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F.
Greaney. )
Ward  —Andrew Buehanan, Charles H. Whiting, Charles
L. Neweomb.
Ward  —John K. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M. Cain.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Oscar Ely.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O’CONNOR.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
.  —William H. Jess. o—James F. Cleary.
 —James W. Toole.  —William E. Syms.
 —Henry Winkler.  —John Hildreth.
  John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James C. Keough.
Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholomew J. Lynch.
Ward  —Edward Donahue, Thomas J. Gibson, Nazaire
Beliveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bluemer.
Ward  —Maurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis S. Paquette.
Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.
Ward  —Charles L. Newcomb, Henry E. McElwain, J. Sanford Webber.
Ward  —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Richard G.
Kalduff.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Mann.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —L. F. Hayward, Jr.  —H. E. McElwain.
 —J. W. Toole.  —C. L. Neweomb.
 —H. Winkler.*  —John Hildreth.
M. Manning. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
 John Dillon.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Michael J. Lavelle.
Ward  —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John Bleasius
Ward  —Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Bellveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C.
Kelly.
Ward  —John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis E.
Herbert.
Ward d—Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D. Perkins. |
Ward  —Charles L. Allen, Lucius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.
Ward  —George L. Thorpe, John Longeway, Jr., George V.
Osgood.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.
Citv Messenger—William T. Walsh.
* Resigned June  .

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN. .
Ward Ward
 —John C. Sullivan.  —Richard Shea.
 William P. Buckley.  —Dennie L. Farr.
 —George Spamer.  —KE. L. Squier.
 —Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, J. J. Callanan.
Ward  —John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen.
Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J. Kennedy.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J. Taylor
Ward  —Patrick Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W.
Doran.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, C. L. Allen, James L. Davis.
Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George V.
Osgood.
Clerk, Damel W. Kenney.
| Citv Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
, ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —M. P. Conway. dS—A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  —C. D. Colson.
 —George Spamer.  —K. L. Squier.
 —N. J. Baker. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas Connor.

Ward  —William Brockway, Joseph A. Peltier, Maurice J.
Sullivan.
Ward  —Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C.

O’Leary.
Ward  —Herman Heinritz, John J. Taylor, Onesime Viens.
Ward  —Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene Shea.
Ward  —Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles MeCollister.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Mederie J. Laporte.
Ward  —Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Frederick C.

Steele.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. ,

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —M. P. Conway. o—J. J. Callanan.
,  —T. J. Kennedy.  —J. P. Prescott.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —R. P. Donoghue. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway, John H. Ryan, Maurice J.
Sullivan.
Ward  —John Black, Arthur B. C. DeLaunay, Cornelius
. O'Leary.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Albert C.
Renner.
Ward  —Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene
Shea.
Ward  —John E. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel J.
O’Connell.
Ward  —Mederie J. Laporte, Stephen E. Gifford, John B.
Miller.
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. MceCollister,
Henry D. Willams.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward :
 —William Haney.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —Antoine Marcotte.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —-Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Henry D. Williams.
Ward  —Joseph Herbert, Henry L. Mohan, John H. Ryan.
Ward  —John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perreault, Paul Sechubach.
Ward  —Frank QO. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P. Sullivan.
Ward —William L. Bishop, Patrick H. Brennan, William
B. Miles. .
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, George E. Pickup, Frank C.
Webber.
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. McCollister,
Henry D. Williams.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.

  CIT OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
| Mayor, DENNIE L. FARR.
, ALDERMEN.
President, Michael Connors.
Ward Ward :
 —William Haney. o—J. J. Callanan.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —M. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 —T. J. Dillon. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Patrick Gear, Joseph Hebert, David H. Toole.
Ward  —Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril T.
Labreeque.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor  Laplante, Ernest. R.
Tauscher.
Ward  —Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O’Connor, Daniel
P. Sullivan.
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, John Navlor, Frank C. Webber.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M.
Hartzell.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton,
City Clerk—Thomas D. O'Brien.
City Treasurer—Picrre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T, Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MARCIENE H. WHITCOMB.
ALDERMEN.
President, Rufus B. Holmes.
Ward Ward
 —T. J. Lynch.  —R. S. Burns.
 —F. St. Martin.  —James A. Allyn.
 —Michael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 —-P, W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole, John Daly,*
James Wall.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendtville.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernes:
Tauscher.
Ward +—Frank Fitzgerald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyvr
S. Menard.
Ward d—Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Elbert Goss, Frederick N. Ricker, Edward N.
White. :
' Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin Bb. Evans, Charles M
Hartzell.
Clerk, Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvoulorr.
City Messenger—Wuliam T. Walsh.
*Resigned.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, HENRY A. CHASE.
ALDERMEN.
President, John Wall.
Ward Ward
 —Timothy J. Lynch. o—Richard S. Burns.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —John Wall.
 —Richard H. Dietz.  —George H. Lynds.
 +—Thomas J. Lynch. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
Q Leary.
Ward  —F red Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. PrendiVille. ;
Ward  —John H. Donoghue, Victor S. Laplante, William
J. Mahoney.
Ward  —John J. MeIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F. Sul, livan. .
Ward  —Edmund HH. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Edwin M. Chase, Elbert Goss, Caleb J. Humeston.
Ward  —Conrad V. Tein, Charles P. Randall, William O.
White.
Clerk, Damel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Eadward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wiham T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. CURRAN.
ALDERMEN.
President, Timothy J. Lynch.
Ward Ward
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Adam Leining.  —Frank Feather.
 —Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O'Leary.
Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr., Henry P. Cunningham, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —John H. Connor, William J. Mahoney, Patrick W.
O’Rourke.
Ward  —William J. Dillon, John J. MeIntee, John J. Riley.
Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, Edward J. Kenney, William
O'Connell.
Ward  —William D. Bunnell, Thomas H. Kearney, Henry
Reed.
Ward  —James Collingwood, Charles P. Randall, Homer J.  
Stratton.
Clerk, John P. McTigue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane. |
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. !
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, GEORGE H. SMITH.
, President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.
Patrick E. Donoghue. Hugh McLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Salime J. Benoit. Wilham J. Ryan.
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George A. Savoy.
Morris [icks. James H. Staples
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Timothy J. Lynch. o—Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —KF red Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Frank Feather. ?—Charles P. Randall.
 +—Patrick J. O'Connor.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, MICHAEL CONNORS.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Hugh MeLean.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh MeLean.
Arthur M. French. Daniel Proulx. .
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Timothy J. Lynch. I—Michael J. Doyle.  —Samuel Migneault.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Frank Feather.  —James H. Wyhe, Jr.
 —James  S. Lacey.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
Citv Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger— William T. Walsh.

, ‘CITY. OFFICERS
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Hugh McLean.
Adam Leining. Wilham McCorkindale.
Edwin L. Squier.

- ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.

; Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Timothy J. Lyneh. o—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Samuel Migneault.  William G. Beaudro.
 —Moritz Ruther. i—Frank B. Towne. |
+—Joseph A. O'Donnell.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker. |
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
- Marciene H. Whitcomb. |
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
' Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Wilham McCorkindale.
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —John P. MeTigue. o—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Arthur R. Vincent.  —William G. Beaudro.
 —Herbert C. Clark.  —Frank B. Towne.
 Florence Donoghue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  |
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Michael J. Doyle.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
William G. Beaudro. John J. Finn.
Edward F. Dowd. Charles S. Hemingway.
William O. Ducharme. James M. Kennedy.
William MeCorkindale.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Dennis O'Leary. d—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —John C. Carlin.
 —John R. Allan.  —Frank B. Towne.
 —Florenee Donoghue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.”
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.**
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Died April .
**Elected City Clerk by Board of Aldermen April .

CiTY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
; George B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Charles S. Hemingway. Edward F. Dowd.
William O. Ducharme. William G. Beaudro.
John J. Finn. James M. Kennedy.
William MeCorkindale.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
|  —Dennis O'Leary. o—Eugene F. Kane.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —John G. Dearden.
 —Leon Bliss.  —Thomas W. Holley.
 Alexander O’Brien.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. |
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran. |
|

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWo YEARS).
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
William G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy.
William Lambert.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George  Noonan. Adelard M. Potvim.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward Ward
 —Patrick J. Sullivan. o—Eugene F. Kane.
 —Eugene Laramay.  —James T. Devine.
 —Leon W. Bhiss.  —Thomas W. Holley.
 —John T. Sheehan.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR). |
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
Wilham G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy.
William Lambert.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Patrick J. Sullivan. o—John J. White.
 —Victor S. Laplante.  —Herbert E. Ainley.
 —William F. Wicks.  —Robert P. Cunningham.
 —-Henry J. Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Janes M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
John R. Allan. Ira J. Humes. |
William A. Allyn. Michael J. Kearns.
William J. Cray. James M. Kennedy.
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS. |
Ward Ward
I—Samuel N. Bogart.  —Richard Connor.
 —-Victor S. Laplante.  —Herbert E. Ainley.
 —Wilham F. Wicks.  —Robert P. Cunningham.
+—J. Henry Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran. —

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Herbert E. Ainley. James T. Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Noonan. ,
Frederick Childs. Henry J. Soutiere.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
William A. Allyn. Ira J. Humes.
William J. Cray. Michael J. Kearns.
John R. Allan.* James M. Kennedy.
Thomas H. Finn.**
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Dennis O’Leary.  —Richard Connor.
 —F rank Rainault.  —Frank Linnehan.
 William F. Wicks.  —Jesse E. Sheldon.
 —J. Henry Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Resigned February .
**#Elected by the Board of Aldermen February .

  ‘CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Leon W. Bliss. Israel Ducharme.
, George R. Burns. James M. Kennedy.
Wilham J. Cray. John D. Ryan.
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Herbert E. Ainley. James T. Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Noonan.
Frederick Childs. Henry J. Soutiere.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Dennis O’Leary.  —Richard Connor.
  —Frank Rainault.  —Leander C. Hartzell.
 —Thomas A. Bray. i—Jesse E. Sheldon.
 —Jeremiah J. Slattery.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. 
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS 
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Herbert E. Ainley. William G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
Thomas E. Begley. James T. Devine.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Leon W. Bliss. Israel Ducharme.
George R. Burns. James M. Kennedy.
. Wilham J. Cray. John D. Ryan.
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Thomas H. Finn. d—John J. White.
 —Alfred F. Cousineau.  —Allan J. Maleolin.
 —Thomas A. Bray.  —Philip M. Judd.
 —Jeremiah J. Slattery.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, George Barnett.*
Philip M. Judd.**
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George R. Burns. Emil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Buteher. Israel Ducharme.
William J. Cray. Ira J. Humes.
James E. Jagger.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Herbert E. Ainley. William G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
; Thomas E. Begley. James T. Devine.
samuel C. Warner.
) ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Thomas HH. Finn. o—John J. White.
 Alfred F. Cousineau.  —Allan J. Malcolm.
 —Otto F. Richter.  —Philip M. Judd.
 Jeremiah J. Slattery.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Resigned August .
**Elected by the Board of Aldermen August .

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Philip M. Judd.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Albert Archambault. William G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
John P. Bleasius. James T. Devine.
Maurice Lynch.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
George R. Burns. Emil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Butcher. Israel Ducharine.
William J. Cray. Ira J. Humes.
James E. Jagger.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward Ward |
 —Thomas H. Finn.”  —Jeremiah J. Slattery.
 —Peter MeGuire.** o—John J. White.
 Alfred F. Cousineau. —John Sheehan.
 —Otto F. Richter.  —Philip M. Judd.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—Wuiliam T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Resigned February .
**Plected by Board of Aldermen February .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JOHN J. WHITE.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Israel Ducharme.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Williain KE. Bosworth. Emil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Buteher. Israel Ducharme.
Alfred F. Cousineau. Daniel F. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Albert Archambault. William G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
John P. Bleasius. James T. Devine.
Maurice Lynch.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Terenee A. Reilly.  —Joseph F. Griffin.
 —Ulrie Blanchard.  —John H. Sheehan.
 —August W. Bey. —Willhiam L. Foote.
 —James P. Rohan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JOHN J. WHITE.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Israel Ducharme.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Herbert E. Ainley. William G. Cantin.
Albert Archambault. Frederick Childs.
John P. Bleasius. James E. Crean.
John Stalker.
. ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
William E. Bosworth. Emil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Butcher. Israel Ducharme.
Alfred F. Cousineau. ‘Daniel F. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe. .
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward Ward
 —Louis E. Emery. o—Michael J. Gleason.
 —Ulrie Blanchard.  —James T. Cahill.
 —Joseph M. Toepfert.  —William L. Foote.
 James P. Rohan. a
| City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. )
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. |
Clerk of Comimittees—John C. Doran. .

  CITY OFFICERS
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JOHN J. WHITE.
President of the Board of Aldermen, William E. Bosworth
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
William E. Bosworth. Daniel Long.
Joseph F. Griffin. John T. Regan.
L. Alphonse Laporte. Daniel F. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe. |
, ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Albert Archambault. William G. Cantin.
John P. Bleasius. Frederick Childs.
James P. Rohan. James E. Crean.
John Stalker.
. ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward Ward
 —William Norton. o—Michael J. Gleason.
 —Charles Kk. Boudreau.  —Richard M. Powers.
 —Joseph M. Toepfert.  —John  S. Clarke.
 —Cornelius J. Millane. .

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan. |

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. :

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY- ORDINANCES  
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Thirteen.

. AN ORDINANCE
Relative to the Creation of Planning Board for the
City of Holyoke.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:
Section  Planning Board to consist of the Mayor,

who shall be Chairman, and the President of the Board of

Aldermen, each of whom shall be member thereof ex

officio, and of three citizens of the City of Holyoke, who

shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to confirmation by
the Board of Aldermen is hereby created. As soon after
the passage hereof as is practical the Mayor shall appoint
three citizens as members of such planning board to
hold office for the terms of one, two and three years,

respectively from the third Monday of November  ,

and thereafter in the month of November in each year

the Mayor shall appoint citizen as member of such
planning board to hold office for three years from the third

Monday of November therein. Any vacancy that may oceur shall be filled in like manner for the remainder of the

unexpired term.
Section  The members of such planning board shall
serve without pay. Such planning board may make rules 
for the conduct of its business and may hold such hearings
as it may deem proper and necessary. It may employ such
expert and clerical assistance as the Board of Aldermen
may authorize from time to time. It may require any officer, department, board or commission of the City to fur| nish it with such information, records, reports, plans, data
and statistics within his or its knowledge as will aid such
planning board in the performance of its duties.

  CITY ORDINANCES

Section  It shall be the duty of such planning board
to make careful studies of the resources, possibilities and
needs of the City of Holyoke, particularly with respect to
conditions which may be injurious to public health, or otherWise injurious in and about rented dwellings, and to make

. plans for the development of the municipality with special
reference to the proper housing of its people.

Section  Such planning board shall make report
annually in the month of November, in writing, to the Board
of Aldermen, giving information regarding the condition
of the city and any plans or proposals for the development
of the city, and estimates of the cost thereof, which shall
be considered part of their report.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its.
pasage.

Approved November .
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Thirteen.
AN ORDINANCE  ,
To Amend an Ordinance Entitled ‘‘Revised Ordinances
of  .”’
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of

Holyoke as follows:

That the ‘‘Revised Ordinances of  ,’’ be amended
in the following manner:

Section  By striking out section fifteen, chapter
thirty-two and inserting in place thereof the following: |

Section  In slowing up or stopping, signal shall
always be given to those behind, by raising the whip or
hand vertically.

Approved November .

CITY ORDINANCES  
An Ordinance Relative to the Establishing and Maintaining
of an Independent Industrial School.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
of Holyoke as follows:

Section  The Holyoke Independent Industrial Sehool
comprising day and evening vocational classes, is hereby
established in comphanee with and under the provisions of
Chapter of the Acts of and Chapter of the
Acts of  and any acts in amendment thereof.

Seetion  The entire eare, management and control of
said Independent Industrial School and vocational courses,
is hereby vested in Board of Trustees to be appointed by
the School Committee of Holyoke, subjeet to confirmation
by the Board of Aldermen, and said Board of Trustees shall
have authority to manage, to provide for and maintain such
school. Any vacancy that may oceur shall be filled in like
manner for the remainder of the unexpired term.

Section  The said Board of Trustees shall so provide,
maintain and conduct said school and do all things that may
be necessary in order to entitle the city to be reimbursed
by the Commonwealth as provided for in Chapter of
the Acts of and Chapter of the Acts of and
any acts in amendment thereof.

Seetion  The said Board of Trustees shall keep an aecurate record of all acts and doings of the Board and full
itemized account of all receipts and expenditures, and shall
make full report annually to the Mayor and the Board
of Aldermen
Section  This ordinanee shall take place upon its
pasage.
Approved November .

  CITY ORDINANCES 
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Thirte.n.
AN ORDINANCE

Relative to Tax Limit for the City of Holyoke.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of

Holvoke as follows:

Section  Taxes hereafter assessed on property within
the City of Holyoke, exclusive of the State Tax and other
amounts assessed upon the city by the commonwealth, the
county tax and sums required by law to be raised on account of the city debt, shall not in any year exd Thirteen
Dollars ($ on every one thousand dollars of the average of the Assessors’ valuation of the taxable property
therein for the preceding three years, such valuation to be
first reduced by the amount of all abatements allowed thereon previous to the thirty-first day of December in the year
preceding said assessment. .

Seetion  This ordimance shall take effect upon its
pasage.

Approved D mber .

CITY ORDINANCES  
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Thirteen.
; AN ORDINANCE
To Amend an Ordinance Entitled ‘‘Revised Ordinanees
of  .”
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of

Holvoke as follows:

That the ‘‘Revised Ordinanees of  ’? be amended
in the following manner:

Seetion  .By striking cut the word ‘‘of’’ in the sixth
line of section one of chapter two, and inserting in place
thereof the word, ‘‘the’’ so that said section as amended

shall read as follows:

Section  The following shall be the devices of the
corporate seal of the City of Holyoke, to wit :— :

A representation within eircle of view of the dam
and mills in the foreground and portion of the Holyoke
range of mountains in the background. Around the view
the words, Industria et Copia, Civico Regimine Donata  .
Underneath the view, the words, Holyoke Condita, A. D.
 .

Section  By adding, after the word, ‘‘Massachusetts’’
In the seventh line of section seven, chapter six, the following words, ‘‘and all acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto,’’ so that the section as amended shall read as
follows:

Section  It shall be the duty of such assistant city
elerk to assist the city clerk in recording, indexing and ecertifving mortgages of personal property, assignments of
wages and other documents required by law, to be recorded.
and also to attest documents, as provided in section sixteen
of chapter twenty-six of the Revised Laws of Massachusetts

  ss CITY ORDINANCES
and all acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto, and perform all other duties pertaining to the office of
eity clerk when thereto requested by the city clerk, or dur| ing the absence of the city clerk.

Section  By adding after the word, ‘‘Revised’’ in
the eighth line of section one chapter eleven, the word,
“*City,’’ so that the section as amended shall read as follows:

 Section  The city solicitor shall be an attorney at
law of the courts of the Commonwealth. He alone shall
act as the legal adviser and solicitor of the city, exeept in
special cases In which the Mayor may authorize or require
him to secure the advice or services of such additional eounsellors as he may deem best. He shall perform all the
duties required by the Revised City Charter and by the
ordinanees of the eity.

Seetion  By striking out the word, ‘‘therefor,’’ in
the fourth line of section two, chapter eleven, and inserting
in place thereof the word, ‘‘thereof,’’ so that the section as
amended shall read as follows:

Section  Ile shall attend all meetings of the committee on claims and shall represent the eitvy before the
legislature of the Commonwealth, or any committee thereof.

| Section  By striking out the word, ‘‘by,’’ in the
fourth line of section one, chapter seventeen, and inserting
in place thereof the word, ‘‘of’’? so that the section as
amended shall read as follows: .

Section  The inspeetor of public buildings shall be
under the jurisdiction of the board of publie works, and
shall perform sueh duties as shall be assigned him or required of him by the said board.

Section  By striking out the word ‘‘seven,’’ in the
second line of section eleven, chapter nineteen and inserting
in place thereof the word ‘‘eight,’’ so that the section as
amended shall read as follows:

Seetion  Any persons or person found guilty of vioCITY ORDINANCES  
lating any of the provisions of section eight of this chapter
shall be punished by fine not exding fifty dollars.

Section  By striking out Paragraph A, in section
four, ehapter twenty and inserting in place thereof the
following:

Section  plan and profile showing the location
and grade of every street or way which it  proposed to
lay out and establish as publie street shall be filed with
the board of publhe works by the corporation or individual
proposing to open said street, at the time of laying out as
a private way and before the same is graded or inproved.
Such plan and profile shall be drawn to such seale as may
be required by the city engineer, and to his approval, and
shall show the location and grade of all connecting streets. —

Section  By striking out section six, chapter twenty
and inserting in plaee thereof the following:

Section  No street or way shall hereafter be laid
out, established or aecepted as puble street in the city
of Holvoke, unless the sewers or drains therein, or culverts
crossing such street or way are construeted in accordance
with the direetions of, or approved by the board of publie
works in regard to the dimensions, materials and grade
thereof.

Section  By striking out the word, ‘‘at,’’ in the sixth
line of the fourth paragraph of section seven, chapter
twenty-eight, so that the paragraph as amended shall read
as follows:

‘““The eharge for the use of hackney carnmages, hired
by the hour between the hours of six o’cloeck in the morning
and eleven o’clock in the evening, shall not exd two
dollars for the first hour and one dollar and fifty cents per
hour after the first hour; and for parts of hours after the
first hour proportionate part of one dollar and fifty cents;
the charge for the use of hackney carriage when hired by
the hour between the hours of eleven o'clock in the evening
and six o’clock in the morning shall not exd double the
rates here established above for such use by the hour.

  CITY ORDINANCES

Section  By striking out the word, ‘‘they’’ in the
fourth line of section three chapter thirty, and inserting
In place thereof the word, ‘‘shall,’’ so that the section as
amended shall read as follows:

Section  The board of aldermen shall from time to
time establish such rules and regulations with reference to
the business earried on by pawnbrokers and the rate of

; interest to be charged by them as shall seem to the board
of aldermen to be necessary and proper, and no pawnbroker
shall hereafter charge or receive upon any loan greater
rate of interest than that fixed by the board of aldermen.

Sseetion  By striking out the third paragraph of
section one, chapter thirty-six and inserting in place thereof
the following: |

Section  The playground commission shall annually
in the month of February organize by the election of chair-.
man and secretary who shall be members of the commission.

Section  By striking out the words, ‘‘section one of
chapter sixty-eight of the Puble Statutes of the Commonwealth’? where they oceur im section forty-seven, section
forty-eight and section forty-nine of chapter forty-one and
inserting in place thereof the following words: ‘‘section
fitteen of chapter sixty-five of the Revised Laws of the Commonwealth and all acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto,’’ so that the sections as amended shall read as
follows:

Section  No person shall hawk or peddle any of the
articles enumerated in section fifteen of chapter sixty-five
of the Revised Laws of the Commonwealth and all acts
amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, until he has
recorded his name and residenee with the city clerk and
been assigned number by said elerk.

Section  No person hawking or peddling or selling
or exposing for sale any article enumerated in section fifteen
of chapter sixty-five of the Revised Laws of the Commonwealth and all acts amendatory thereof or supplementary

CITY ORD{NANCES  
thereto, shall ery his wares to the disturbance of the peace
and comfort of the inhabitants of the city.

Section  No hawker or peddler shall carry or convey any article enumerated in section fifteen of chapter
sixty-five of the Revised Laws of the Commonwealth and all
acts amendatory thereof, and supplementary thereto in any
manner that will tend to injure or annoy the public health
or comfort nor ctherwise than in vehiele or receptacle
which are neat and clean and do not leak, and which have
printed on them in letters and figures at least two inches in
height the name of the person selling and the number given
by the city clerk.

Approved December .

  CITY ORDINANCES
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Thirteen.
AN ORDINANCE Oe
To Establish Salaries of Police.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Holyoke as follows:
Section  The annual compensation for Police Service
is hereby established as follows.
Marshal ............. +--+  
Assistant Marshal ........... ,
CaptainS ........... -+---  
Lieutenants ...............--  
Detectives and Sergeants..... .
PATROLMEN.
First Year ......       
Seeond Year ..............-.  
Third Year ..................  
Fourth Year ................  
Police Matron ............... ;
In each year there shall be two weeks vacation with full
pay.
Section  All ordinances and parts of ordinances jnconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage. .
Approved December .
!
;

| —
po |

;
po |

|
|
Digitized by Google


