MUNICIPAL REGISTER)  
OF THE |
CITY OF HOLYOKE»)...
FOR |
Containing the Mayor’s Address
City Government Roster
Annual Reports
Etc.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN
FARIA F
Cer)
QE
| Dup.  :
D. of D.
M. J. Dove PRINTING Co.
HOLYOKE, Mass.
,
| ag, tae lee aT tL Hat: do

— 
.  
- |
OA Te
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
RECEIVED
MAY  
. DOCUMENTS DIVISION

, I
,

 CONTENTS
Mayor’s Address  
City Government, 
Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen  
City Officers .  
Election Officers  
Report of Board of Water Commissioners  Report of School Department  
Report of Fire Commissioners  
Report of Board of Health as acs. oo,  
Report of Gas and Electric Departniént  
Report of Board of Park Commissioners  
Report of Playground Camunissioners |
Report of City Solicitor.  
Report of City Engineer  
Report of Sinking Fund Commissioners.  
Report of Board of Assessors  
Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures  
Report of Overseers of the Poor.  
Report of Department of Police ,
Report of the City Treasurer  
Report of City Auditor.  
Report of Board of Public Works  
Jury List for   
City Officers  
Ordinances ,  

|
Oo
|

Inaugural Address of
JOHN H. WOODS, Mayor
City of Holyoke, Massachusetts ,
AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE
CITY GOVERNMENT IN JANUARY
NINETEEN HUNDRED FOURTEEN
Vy  |
ZS
Wee

la —
. "ee  , naeessc  .
: foes aah Py as
» oa an e
. 
, .. “A
. 
; ki  .
‘ ys
‘ae aN 
A  rte at r. by  “a cf
z ay me »
. ‘y Pa a”  
st ie “i Ca"  
;  re ie xe, ‘
‘ AG PF ;
“ieag gers :
.  
. Se aa
- ae :
.  SS g
ee ye
o
 
- iP Sd Pr. a
ae, en mm ene
. GREY atin o
hie —.  y
Soe 
- os “i
; eS ae :
Rs soe  errs
; OP Ps
 .
  REE
. at an Sig Fg th |
on.
. onl bak a
i Sa ns 
+  na Yom ,
ee “Ae  ov. way
o Se a
 Se BK eR Te: nee Be
, oe. Nite" "oy re re 
& Re COONAran Bi on iE
+ te r. aweas
. Ee atOhee    ae
“She “ibe oe Se See ee
J.  hee ye ne eg bk eS oe
aoe Sie Neqi Se en
" oe te  AS Dy oe te: aioe A
 AS Pi.   Mei?
ets wax Fa Ros Be. ne gs
aAG eS “er a, .e on ay
Ng  aePee SD *
AE Be ae ot Stee “
.  See me oe /. as
LR. ge Oot Be SS
 ae ‘J ae .
Fo Oe ela Se Lees SS es a
pomee Me oe Po ed ep eins
See ye ae.AS le
 y- SE oe Ssoh ae goo  
fo yA SERA OR as |
. SEO kee oe Cans ne»]
ee Rei ae PAY ey RoAx ae
$. aes tS al PS Ee IR, OF ox, reso)
aeBee eae be SS eS Sg a
Sea are. sy an pia Baad Os“to ES :
ae as ae ons BE SN oConPE
: SE eek tees. nice “se*
i Soa Aes niet, PO OS oe os oeea
- ate,  ILS —" Se Le  
Oe. Bae png oS See eet ONE ns Me et a
fda SSere eRame hee,   iy Sa
lSce   mgOSS PER Ree Gass nia  es
ae Oe ae Se Se,  Ks Se we) Paes ow oe eer RO Se
th Ag ne,  ne Se Vee “ee +m sd oyae
& Ee SP tl oth Re... CC  ea ae
EEE

a aaeQV LLU  :
|
|
|
|
|
. OF ... !
JOHN H. WOODS |
a |
Lo the Flonorable, the Board of Aldermen |
of the City of Holyoke: |
At the recent city election the majority of the |
voters of the city declared for change in the man- |
agement of the citw affairs and selected you and me |
to be their agents in the formation and working out ,
of new set of policies. In addressing you on this
oceasion it  my dutw to discuss the record of the work
done by the different departments of the city government during the past vear and to forecast ina general way their needs for the coming year. Except for the
financial statement at the opening of this address I.
do not intend to tire you with any long list of figures.
FINANCES.
From the City Auditor’s report. to me, which is
based on last year’s expenditures and this year’s fixed
charges we are facing  tax rate. This want
to impress upon you in the beginning.
Taking last year’s expenditures as basis, plus
the known increases in Police, Fire, Schools, Interest
and Bond payments, our requirements will be  approximately lessened by estimated total
receipts of  leaving  to be raised by

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS
taxation, which means  tax rate to be lessened
by whatever increase may be made in the valuation.
From reports available in the office of the Inspector
of Buildings the valuation this year will hardly be
$ )
In addition to this it is reasonably sure that the
state and county tax will be larger than last year, so
with these almost certain facts before us it behooves
us to practice economy as never before. The burden
which confronts us calls for retrenchment in every department of the city. |
The following accounts show increases in expen- |
ditures over  |
Interest  ...         of |
Bonds .........    ces  
Police (Salaries) .........  +. |
Fire (Salaries) .................... |
Schools (Salaries) ................. 
Relief (Overdraft) .................  
Highways (Overdraft) .............  
Total ....        
The gross debt November  was ;
an increase over of .
The net debt November  was ;
an increase over of .
During there will be  paid off the
eity debt;  of which will be paid from sinking
fund,  from the Water department,  from
the Holyoke Westfield R. R., earnings and the balance  from taxation.
The borrowing capacity November  was

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
$ while on November  it was ,
a decrease of This has since been decreased
$  more by the loan for playground site.

. The valuation for was for  
$ an increase of .

The fixed charges such as interest, debt payments,
sinking fund, state and county taxes will be about
$  or about  on the total tax rate. .

What was apparent to some years ago is now |
clear to all, that the days of low tax rate are gone,
not entirely because of more extravagant methods, but
in response to the general public demand which insists upon better highways, improved and broader

 educational methods and conditions, greater regard
for public health and welfare in the adoption of better
hygienic safeguards for men, wornen and children as
instanced in the institution of playgrounds, care and
prevention of tuberculosis, contagious diseases and
modified milk stations. To maintain and even elevate
still further these standards means much additional
expense and of course increased taxation to meet that
expense.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

A mistaken policy in the management of the
affairs of our city owned Gas and Electric Department
has brought about rather alarming condition in the
department whose steady growth and efficient management in former years has been matter of pride
with all Holyoke citizens. The production of the
plants during the past vear has been the largest in the
history of the city, as might be expected with the
growth of population and business in the city. In
order to meet this steadily increasing demand for light

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS
and power it is absolutely essential that the department be equipped to provide all the commodity needed.
During the past year the extensive alterations at the
city gas plant have been practically completed and
coal gas was made there for the first time early in
November. Later in the month an accident at the
plant was responsible for filling the mains in the city
 with gas highly charged with sulphur to the great inconvenience and no little danger to the users. It-was
impressed on the minds of all those having to do with
the plant that the services of chemist are imperative,
and would advise that such an expert be secured
without delay to prevent the possibility of any such
event. in the future and also to see if the quality of
the gas product cannot be improved on and perhaps
hasten the day when we will have realized that long
promised eighty cent gas rate. On examination it |
appears that all well directed gas plants have an expert chemist and the amount we had to pay for the
services of out of town experts in our recent experience would go long way toward defraying the salary
expense of such an employee.

A big start was made during the past year in lavying the electric light and power wires underground.
Something of this work ought to be done each year
until all sections of the city are attended to without
making too great an inroad on the annual earnings
of the department.

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Under this department are gathered number of
different sub-departments and the duties of the Board
are manifold. The annual report is not available at

MAYOR’S ADDRESS It
the present time, but the past year has been one of
great activity in the department.

Under this department comes the control of the
streets of the city and this is live wire topic. Immediate attention must be given most of the streets or
else the city will be forced to raise great sums of
money to pay for the reconstruction of miles of road-way which have fallen into sad state of disrepair.
The city must go about the business of road building
for itself, rather than be letting it out to contractors
and then paying inspectors to see that the city is not
fled too much. well built road is cheap investment and would refer you to that section of Dwight
Street in Ward Five which was laid fifteen years ago
and Maple Street between Hampden and Lyman as

 examples of well built and good wearimg streets.
SCHOOLS.
We will all agree that the welfare of the schools of
the city take first rank in importance and more than one
| fourth of our total tax levy goes toward the support of
this department. It is bad management to serimp on the
expenditures of the school department and our chief
interest les in seeing that the greatest possible return 
Is secured on the vast annual outlay. Our schools are
undergoing change in the rapid development of the
branch of industrial education, form of education
that promises much for the welfare of this particular
eitv. Much progress has been made in this branch
during the past year and more will doubtless be done
this vear. One minor matter that has appealed
to me as needing compulsory regulation is the matter
of fire drills. Some of our sehool prineipals have been

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS |
diligent enough in this respect, but others have been
careless.
I would lke to commend the efficient manner in
which the superintendent of the school department
handles the business of the public schools and acecomplishes much that will have permanent value.
WATER DEPARTMENT.
The financial statement of the Water Department
shows that the receipts are larger than the preceding
vear by comfortable margin. The department is at
present engaged in strenuous legal struggle growing
out of the construction of the new storage reservoir
dam on the Manhan brook above the Fomer intake,
and it seems to require the services of the city engineering department most of the time to supply the :
information desired. :
‘ PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.
In general with the other departments of the eity,
we will have to call on the Park Board to practice
rigid economy during the coming year, but an early
working out of the plan for bridging the Elmwood
* Park ravine must be considered. The Park Board in
its annual report states that the estimated cost of such
a bridge with proper approaches is and if
conditions warrant such an expenditure will probably recommend to your honorable board the making
of this loan in the course of the vear.
In the development of the playground idea con- .
dition has arisen which calls for some other plan than
the one first set forth. Originally the intent was to
have the playgrounds for the children only. But as

OO

MAYOR’S ADDRESS  
things have worked out the playgrounds have come to
be very largely used by adults, and am in favor of the
establishment of city athletic field for the use of the
older persons and the reservation of the playgrounds
for the children as originally planned. fully approve
of all clean sport and intend to lend my aid to promote
such sport whenever possible.

POLICE DEPARTMENT.

No one has been more severe in criticism of the
Police Department in the past than myself. have eriticized the department in general and the marshal in
particular for what considered lack of discipline and
non-enforcement of laws. have long contended that
this department of all departments should be taken
out of politics. want the very best men for policemen

' and want to see the best man available to head that
department, and care not what his political faith
may be. We have body of men in our department
equal to any in New England, but we have long lacked
the trained head for marshal. We need this department reorganized and brought up to date in every
particular. The report as rendered by the Assistant
Marshal has much which should be granted, and feel
certain that the present year will find conditions here
much improved. .
FIRE DEPARTMENT.

One of the inherited tasks of this administration
is the completion and equipment of the Central Fire
Station. Among the requests in the annual report is
for new engine house in Ward One, ineluding the sale
of the present location. Whether this can be done

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS |
this year is question, owing to financial conditions. |
The substitution of auto trucks for horse drawn vehieles in the department goes steadily forward and it ,
seems to be the aepted procedure in all cities inter- :
ested in the development of an efficient fire department. |
BOARD OF HEALTIL |
At one time not many years ago the Holyoke
Board of Health was looked up to as one of the best
in the Commonwealth, but the standard has not been
maintamed mm recent times. It is very much to be desired that this department be brought up to its former
Ingh position with the least possible loss of time.
BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
The Assessors’ office is the one office of the city
which am well acquainted with, and want to say |
that all other departments might well copy their method of having things in systematic manner. The office
is so conducted that information is readily obtained |
accurately.
CITY PLANNING BOARD. ,
The recently appomted Holyoke Planning Board .
has shown commendable zeal in tackling the prob- |
lems, particularly the housing problem, that he within |
its provinee. It is defect of the law eréating this
hoard that it is not given the right to preseribe condi- |
tions. As it is it is merely an advisory body, but one :
that ean do great good and which deserves the support
of officials and citizens alike.
Those excellent and experieneed officials, the City
Auditor, the City Treasurer, the City Clerk and the

Eo EEoEoEEEEOEOAeeO
MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
Collector of Taxes, have conducted their offices. with
much ability during the past year as in preceding
years. The Tax Collector made very fine record during the year, but it looks as if he would have to do even
better during the coming twelve months to keep the
treasury filled.
In econelusion, let me say that look on the indorsement of this new administration as an emphatic
protest against the feeding at the publie erib which
has been tolerated too long already. The department
heads of the city must be made to understand that in
the distribution of work to be done for the city that
every craftsman is entitled to square deal. Under
those conditions only can satisfactory results be accomplished and only in this way ean we, the city government for the year  make of Holyoke finer
and better place in which to live.
JOHN H. WOODS,
Mayor.
|
|

OF THE
CITY OF .HOLYOKE
MAYOR.
HON. JOHN H. WOODS.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
JOHN P. BLEASIUS.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN. :
(For Two Years.)
ALBERT ARCHAMBAULT, JAMES E. CREAN,
JOHN P. BLEASIUS, EDWARD F. DOWD,
FREDERICK CHILDS, JOHN STALKER,
ARCHIBALD FERGUSON.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For One Year.)
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH, DANIEL LONG,
JOSEPH F. GRIFFIN, JOHN T. REGAN,
L. ALPILONSE LAPORTE, DANIEL F. SHEA,
HENRY F. THORPE.

CITY OFFICERS  
MEMBERS OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward  —EUGENE T. O’NEILL.
Ward  —SAMUEL GRANDCHAMP.
Ward  —JOSEPH M. TOEPFERT.
Ward  —CHARLES F. McMAHON.
Ward  —JAMES F. SWEENEY.
Ward  —WILLIAM T. BARRY.
Ward  —JOHN S. CLARKE.
CITY CLERK.
| JOHN F. SHEEHAN.
. ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
— DANIEL J. HARTNETT.
CITY MESSENGER.
WILLIAM T. WALSH.
CLERK OF COMMITTEES.
JOHN C. DORAN.

STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
Finance.—Aldermen Archambault, Long, Stalker.

Ordinances.—Aldermen Long, Archambault, Laporte
Shea, Thorpe.
Claims.—Aldermen Ferguson, Dowd, McMahon, Crean,
Sweeney.
Street Franchises.—Aldermen Regan, Laporte, Long,
O'Neill, Barry.
Rules.—Aldermen O'Neill, Clarke, Griffin, Grandchamp,
Regan,
 Licenses.— Aldermen Grandchamp, Sweeney, MeMahon,
Bosworth, Toepfert.
State and Military Aid and Soldiers’ Relief.— Aldermen
Thorpe, Barry, Clarke, Childs, Shea.
Enrollment.—Aldermen Griffin, Crean, Childs, Stalker,
Toepfert.
Municipal Lighting.—Aldermen Archambault, Regan,
O'Neil, Thorpe, Dowd.
River Navigation, Trades and Industries.—Aldermen
McMahon, Grandchamp, Dowd, Ferguson, Bosworth. ,
Education.—Aldermen Sweeney, Toepfert, Griffin,
Childs, Crean.

CITY TREASURER.
Pierre Benvouloi, Office, Room  City Hall
Eleeted annually at the Municipal Election.
CITY AUDITOR.

Daniel W. Kenney,  Office, City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.

Michael F. Walsh, Office, Commercial street
Appointed annually by the Board of Public Works.
CITY ENGINEER.

Timothy J. MacCarthy,  Office, City Hall
Appointed every three years by the Mayor.

CITY SOLICITOR. ,
Thomas C. Maher, Office,  Main street
Appointed annually by the Mavor.
CITY PHYSICIAN.

James B. Bigelow, Office, Chestnut street
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Office, City Hall
Appointed annually by the Mavor.

  CITY OFFICERS BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

James A. Allen, Chairman, Term expires  

Israel Ducharme, Term expires  

Thomas J. Lyneh, Term expires  

Timothy J. MacCarthy, Clerk, Osear C. Ferry, Asst. Clerk

Members of the Board appointed by the Mavor.

ASSESSORS OF TAXES.

Joseph J. Kelly, Chairman, Term expires  

Jeremiah J. Keane, Seeretary, Term expires  

Wilham G. Beaudro, Term expires  
ASSISTANT ASSESSOR.

Michael J. Grady, Term expires  

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

COLLECTOR OF TAXES.

James M. Kennedy,  Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three vears by the Board of Aldermen.
DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF TAXES.

Frank A. MeCabe,

Appointed by Colleetor of Taxes.

INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Frank J. O'Connell,  d.

Appointed by the Mayor.

) OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Patrick J. Dowd, Chairman, Term expires  
William J. Dillon, Seeretary, Term expires  
Henry Baush, Term expires  

John J. Byrnes, Almoner,  .
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

CITY OFFICERS  
BOARD OF HEALTH.

Maurice Lynch,  Frank A. Woods,  
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer,  .
Appointed by the Mayor.

BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.

George C. Robert, Chairman, Term expires  
James H. O'Connell, Term expires  
Sidney E. Whiting, Term expires  
Appointed by the Mayor.

John Hildreth, Secretary. )
LICENSING BOARD.
Daivd C. Downing, Chairman, Term expires  
Thomas J. O’Connor, Term expires  
George J. White, Term expires  
Fred Killian, Clerk.
INSPECTOR OF MEATS AND PROVISIONS.
John M. Carlon.
Appointed by the Board of Health.
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
William C. Van Tassell.
 Appointed annually by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Board of Aldermen.
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. CO.

Fred A. Monat, John J. O’Neill
John J. Garvey, Matthew B. Begley
John F. Harrington.

Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
" Joseph D. Goddu.
Civil Service. .
INSPECTOR OF MILK.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
Appointed by Board of Health.
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Lorenzo A. Williston, Chairman, Term expires May 
Thomas A. Dillon, Term expires May 
Gustave A. Geissler, Term expires May 
Joseph Laliberte, Term expires May  John F. Shea, Term expires May 
Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Aldermen.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.
James J. Dunn, Chairman, Term expires April 
Thomas Stansfield, Term expires April 
Alexander J. Therrien, Term expires April 
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen.
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.
Ifon. John Ll. Woods, Mayor, ex-officio.
Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-officio. ,
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term expires Mareh 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term expires Mareh 
Mrs. John J. Prew, Term expires Mareh 
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

CITY OFFICERS  
WATER COMMISSIONERS.

Jesse E. Sheldon, Chairman, Term expires  

Hugh McLean, Treasurer, Term expires  

Thomas J. Carmody, Term expires  

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
WATER REGISTRAR.

Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room  City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.

: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

Patrick Gear, Office, Commercial street
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

Thomas F. Monoghan.

Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds.)

Stephen A. Mahoney, Term expires  

Harry J. Bardwell, Term expires  

John J. Finn, Term expires  

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
BOARD OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

Frank B. Towne, Chairman, Term expires  

Mary E. Hussey, Secretary, Term expires  

Ovila Beauchamp, Term expires  

David Brodinsky, ‘Term expires  

Mary C. Reardon, Term expires  

| Archibald A. Brooks, Term expires  

Nathan P. Avery, Term expires  

Mrs. William G. Dwight, Term expires  

Martin P. Conway, Term expires  

  CITY OFFICERS
PLANNING BOARD.
John H. Woods, Mayor.
John P. Bleasius, President of the Board of Aldermen.
Rev. Dr. John S. Lyon. Thomas E. Cavanaugh, M. D.
James H. Wakelin. :
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AS CONTROLLING BODY IN
CHARGE OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
One Year— .
Mrs. Margaret Carlon, Terenee O’Donnell,
Dennis F. Lynch.
Two Years— .
 Wills M. Fleming,  Joseph H. Potts, M. D.
August Baush.
Three Years— .
Frederick S. Webber, John J. O’Connor,
Edwin D. Wells.
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
- Marshal, John R. Harrington
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
Assistant Marshal, Patrick Herbert
Captain, Tinothy Haley
Lieutenant, Patrick E. Sullivan
DETECTIVES.

Peter A. Cullen, Chief, Frank R. Metealf ,
Edward F. Gilday, Maurice M. O’Connor,
Peter J. Manning.

SERGEANTS OF POLICE.
Dennis Mack, William E. Blackmer,
George L. Dickinson, John J. Moriarty.
Patrick F. Ryan.

CITY OFFICERS  
PATROLMEN.
Richard Peters Michael P. Conroy
Thomas F. Riley Medric H. Beloin
Michael J. Lynch John E. Goss
. Francis M. Hastings George W. O’Connell
John A. Powers Michael J. Prendergast
John A. Geran John J. Austin
Cornelius Curran Michael J. Fogarty
James B. Griffin Timothy J. Mannix
Jeremiah J. Linnehan George E. Leary
James T. Donoghue Frederick W. Kuenzel
Rock H. Lalonde William A. Morgan
Thomas Bresnahan Timothy J. Murphy )
Maurice H. Shine Michael J. Walsh
Henry M. Fisher Joseph A. Landry
Daniel C. MeCarthy Michael J. Herlihy
William J. Carey James J. Tisdale
Michael Driscoll John T. Quinn
Patrick J. Kennedy Albert M. Alben
James E. Maleolm Garrett Bowler
Patrick J. Driscoll Patrick J. Falvey
Thomas J. Rourke Joseph P. Kane
Patrick J. Gaughan Arthur E. Standen
Andre J. Seney George Hickson
Albert Mew Patrick J. Sullivan )
John J. O’Donnell Edward H. Ashe
. Maxwell McDowell Archibald R.  S. Fletcher
James T. Welch John F. Moriarty
John J. Grady Luke F. Kilmurray "
Henry Sussenguth, Jr. Otto Eger
Michael J. Clifford Thomas E. Powers
PATROLMEN RETIRED ON PENSION.
John A. Davis, Cornelius J. Louney, John A. Vachon

: |
 CITY OFFICERS
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.

RESERVE FORCE OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
William C. Bessett, appointed January .
James J. Fitzgerald, appomted January .
Joseph A. Champagne, appointed Oetober .
Roger P. Coffey, appointed April .

Michael J. Ginley, appointed April .

Charles G. Leonard, appointed April .

Jeremiah EF. Coffey, appointed January .

Timothy F. Lenihan, appointed January .

Roger Donoghue, appointed January .

Frank F. Schenker, appointed January .
James L. White, appointed January .

John J. Sullivan, appointed January .

John J. Finn, appointed December .

Joseph H. Enright, appointed Dec. |

John M. Welch, appointed December .

John MeKinstrie, appointed December .

Michael F. Finn, appointed January .

SPECIAL POLICEMEN.

Anderson Conrad, Northampton street.

Allair, Napoleon, Main street.

Arent, Stanley, Park street.

Avery, Frank L., Hampshire street.

Axmann, Joseph, Columbus avenue.

Baker Miehael J., Bh street.

Bartlett Frederick G., Cabot street.

Bock, Carl F., Elliott street.

Bray, Thomas A., Laurel street.

Brigham, Elisha N.,  Beacon avenue.

Bellerose Albert, Ely eourt.

Bell, John H., Cottage avenue.

| CITY OFFICERS  
Berry, George W., Bh street. |
Benoit, Toussaint O. W., Main street.
Buchanan, John, Hampshire street.
Cadieux, Edward, Brown avenue. |
Cavanaugh, Jeremiah J., Hampshire street. |
Connor, Dennis, South Summer street.
Corriveau, Joseph A., Center street. |
Cronin, Daniel S., Samosett street. !
Clifford, Patrick J., Center street.
Conway, Patrick J., Elm street.
. Connors, James, Sargeant street.
Connell, Joseph J., Dwight street.
Collins, Timothy D., North Bridge street.
Carrigan, Philias, Mosher street.
Cote, Joseph, Park street. ,
Day, David E., Cherry street. |
Dugas, George H., High street. |
Dempsey, Patrick J., Dwight street. |
Devitt, John, South Bridge street.
Dickinson, John C., Carew street, So. Hadley Falls.
Doran, John C., Walnut street.
Duhaime, Joseph, South Canal street.
Durocher, Alfred D., Jr., Park street.
Dobbs, Ira J., Nonotuck street.
 Duelos Alphonse, Hamilton street.
Dupuis, Edmond, Southampton, Mass.
Donoghue, Michael, Pine street.
Ducharme, Ernest, So. Hadley Falls.
Drysdale, Samuel, Charles street.
Eger, Paul C., Hitcheock street.
Eaton, Joseph W., Nonotuck street.
Evans, Charles R., Grover street.
Emery, Napoleon B., Bowers street.
Ezold, Emi] R., Vernon street.
Falvey, Timothy, Pine street.
Finn, Martin, North East street.
Fontaine, Hermenigilde, South Summer street.

|
  CITY OFFICERS
Fitzgerald, Martin, Lyman street.
Fortier, Joseph, Maple street.
Fortin, Louis, Sargeant street. .
Fitzgerald, Patrick J., Pleasant street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick, Bh street.
Gallivan, Bartholomew, Chestnut street.
Geran, Patrick, Bh street.
Geissler, Carl F., Park street.
Goddu, Joseph D., Prospect street.
Goodrich Charles H., Bowers street.
Gagnon, Nelson, Ely street. .
Garvey, John T., Armory street, Springfield.
Grandchamp, Charles, South Summer street.
Gehan, Thomas J., Walnut street.
- Griffin, Patrick J., High street.
Gallagher, Thomas E., Dwight street.
Haley, Cornelius J., Easthampton road.
Haley, Michael J., Easthampton road, R. F. D.,  -A.
Hand, Peter, Clinton avenue.
Hanley, John ., Pine street.
Henderson, James, Springfield street.
Hennessy, James, Pine street.
Hills, George F., West street.
Hurlburt, Arthur P., Park street.
Harris, Joseph, Taylor street.
Hoffmeyer, George, West Holyoke.
Johnston, Isaac, Franklin street.
Kane, Hugh, Elm street.
Kelly, Thomas J., Rock Valley.
Kennedy, John J., Hampden street.
Kennedy, Samuel, rear Hampden street.
Kiely, John, Essex street.
Kingsley, Philip, Dwight street.
Klopfer Frank E., Park street.
Kerin, Michael, Bh street.
Lake, Aaron W., Smiths Ferry. |
Lamb, James, Essex street.

{
. .
CITY OFFICERS  

Lamont, James, Longwood avenue.

Lafontaine, Adelard, Park street.

Lappin, Peter, North East street.

Leblane, Joseph, Elm street. :

Lempke, Ernest, Elm street.

Lempke, Henry, Rock Valley.

Lunn, Horace A., Taylor street.

Lyons, Patrick J., Dwight street. |

Kennedy, Maurice, Elm street.
‘ Landry, Joseph M., Elm street. |

Laperle, Louis, South Bridge street. .

Meehan, Francis J., Bowers street.

Meehan, Joseph, Chapin street.

MeDonald, John W., North East street.

MeNaught, William, Sargeant street.

Murphy, Jeremiah, South Summer street.

Murphy, Timothy, Sargeant street.

Miller, Alexander S., Sycamore street. )

Morin, Francois, South Summer street.

McDonnell, Thomas, Hampshire street.

Mihm, Edward, Hamilton street.

Mahoney, Daniel D., Pleasant street.

MecCearn, John, School street.

McCool, John, Crescent street, Northampton.

McCarthy, Felix, Whiting avenue.

Maher, Alexander, Columbus avenue.

Maloney, Timothy, Emerson street, Willimansett.

Murphy, Thomas, West street.

McKenna, Michael, Dwight street.

Manning, Patrick J., North Summer street.

Martin, John, Maple street.

Maley, Patrick J., Elm street.

Mengel, Frank O., South Summer street.

MeCarthy, Dennis L., Samosett street.

McManus, John, Pleasant street.

Miller George M., Jarvis avenue.

McLaughlin, William J., High street. —

|
  CITY OFFICERS 
Manning, Michael, West street.
Moniarty, Daniel, Lyman street.
O'Connor, John J., City Farm, Ingleside.
O'Keefe, David, Bowers street, B. M. passenger station.
O'Neill, John S., Sargeant street.
O’Brien, John H., East Dwight street.
Olivier, Albert, South Summer street.
Parker, Arthur B., Maple street. 
Potvin, Gilbert, Sr.,.  Maple street.
Poutre, Ovila, South Bridge street.
Peterson Henry, Southampton road.
Pelott, Leander, Westfield road. |
Roche, William F., Appleton street.
Rainault, Homer C., South East street.
Rogers, Harry W., Laurel street.
Rogers, William B., Newton street.
Roberts, Charles S., Sargeant street.
Reilly, John, John street.
Redfern, Frank W., Race street.
Richardson, John F., Northampton strect.
Raboin, J. Hormisdas, South East street. |
Reid, John, Jr., South street.
Sabourin, Leopold, Park street.
Schoenfeldt, Charles L., R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
Skilling, Thomas, Newton street.
Smith, Charles EL, St. Jerome avenue.
Smith, John F., Pear] street.
Sullivan, John B., Elm street.
Snow, Melvin N., Nonotuck street.
Speneer, Henry B., Suffolk street.
Sullivan Frank J., Faille avenue.
Soulmer, Joseph A., Chicopee street, Willimansett.
Stromfors, Axel, Brown avenue.
Slavin, Thomas J., South street.
Spooner, Edgar A., Montgomery avenue.
Smith, Robert J., Dwight street.
Samson, Edward, Bond street. .

. |
CITY OFFICERS  
Sanderson, Whipple R., Essex street. |
St. Martin, Anthony, West Springfield.
Stacy, Joseph, East Dwight street. |
Sittard, Charles, Main street. .
Schubach, Frederick, North Bridge street.
Tokarski, Felix, Union street. .
Tureoni, Romeo R., Maple street.
Thorne, Robert, Pine street.
Vogel, Frank L., Main street.
Wheeler, Frederick A., Merrick avenue.
Williams, Henry C., Taylor street.
Wing, John F., Southampton road.
Wallington, Mark, Pear! street.
Wooley, Arthur E., Pear! street.
Young, Daniel W., Suffolk street.
Zenner, Hugo, R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
Vallee, Joseph, Pine street.
Lyons, Timothy J., East Dwight street.
O’Connor, Edward J., High street.
Griffin, Richard, Hampden street.
Webster, Thomas M., Commercial street.
Ryan, James C., Maple street.
Mulany, George A., Elm street.
Patrick J. O’Connor, Elm street.
James Storey, Hampden street.
 Ernest Goeldner, James street.

Thomas Flahive, Plymouth Place.
George H. Batchelor, West street.

 CONSTABLES.
Valentine J. O’Donnell, Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Myrtle avenue.
Ernest R. Laduke, Chestnut street.
Salime J. Benoit, Walnut street.
Fred Laduke, Coit street.
J. Sidney Wright, Taylor street.

  CITY OFFICERS Frederick  Williams, Lynwood avenue.
George A. Mulany, Elm street. .
Thomas J, Cummins, Chestnut street.
Francis R. Cardinal, Dwight street.
WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.
William M. Hart, Congress avenue.
Walter R. Brown, View street.
Wilham A. Kelly, Congress street.
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK
AND STONE.
Emory A. Ellsworth, Essex street.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Timothy J. MeCarthy, Fairfield avenue.
Wilhiain J. Howes, Harvard street.
Albert F. Sickman, Lincoln street.
Patrick J. Kennedy, Jr., Maple street.
Jeremiah J. Keane, Linden street.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Howard street.
Melvin N. Snow, Nonotueck street.
Wallace EB. Sawin, Taylor street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett. ,
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM. |
Daniel P. Hartnett. |
FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O’Connell, Hampden street.
Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut street.

CITY OFFICERS  
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Linden street. ;
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Richard Peters, Pearl street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
John A. Davis, Cottage avenue.
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC. )
Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.
Patrick J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
Charles R. Evans, Grover street.
William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
George I. Sackett, Northampton street .
Margaret Lawless, Main street. .
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
George H. Lynds, Harrison avenue.
Edward G. Whiting, Oak street.
Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.
Willham S. Bhing, Washington avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
John H. Kenney, School street.
Patrick Murphy, Bh street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Louis Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
Michael F. Shea, Congress avenue.
William Brosnahan, Lyman street.
George A. Lawrence, Park street.
Thomas Shea, Elm street.
Frank J. Linnehan, Dwight street.
Joseph Laframboise, Prew Co., Willimansett.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Prew Co., Willimansett.
John Kennedy, Hampden street.
Patrick J. Sullivan, Center street.
Henry J. Baker, Linden street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
Arthur Zaumnseil, Main street.
James Henderson, Springfield strect. |
‘William T. Wilson, Madison avenue. |
John J. Walsh, Dwight street.
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
Bertha O'Keefe, Nonotuck street.
Wilfred Barsalon, Elm street.
— James J. Wall, Pine street. ,
John Shugrue, Lyman street. William H. Green, Dwight street.
John ID. Kelly, Samosett street.
Roswell Wirt, High street.
Frederick Herder, Dwight street.
Arden W..Myers, rear South street. |
Mabel O'Callahan, Maple street. .
Edward F. McCarthy, Faille avenue.
Dennis J. Begley, N. East street.
| William P. Keating, Charles street.
Arthur Turner, Bh street.
Ira J. Humes, Oak street.
Jeremiah J. Grady, Elm street.
Richard Connor, Bh street.
John Courtney, Lyman street.
Walter R. Brown, View street.
Madeline P. Dufresne, Riverdale street, Chicopee.
Joseph Harris, Taylor street. ,
John A. Wall, Pine street.
Eileen O’Brien, Hampshire street.
WEIGHER OF COAL.
C.R. Wilhelm, Charles street.
MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street.
Daniel O'Connell, Jr., Hampden street.

CITY OFFICERS  
William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Charles B. Davis, Linden street.
Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.
Edward G. Whiting, Oak street.
Patrick J. Moriarty, O'Connor avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Maurice E. Fitzgerald, South Hadley Falls.
Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.
John H. Kenney, School street.
John J. Walsh, Dwight street.
Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.

Patrick J. Kennedy, Jr., Maple street.
Seward M. Knowles, Beacon avenue.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.

 Franklin W. Ely, Locust street.
A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.

| Lewis Warner, Allvn street.
Patrick Walsh, Pearl street.
BURIAL AGENT.
Harry Crosby, Cabot street.

ELECTION OFFICERS
WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—James Joyce.
Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Shaughnessy.
 Clerk—Charles H. Goodrieh.
Deputy Clerk—Rodolphe Baillargeon.
Inspectors—Cornelius F. Crowley, James Clark, Octave
Langlois, Dieudonne Blain.
Deputy Inspeetors—Jeremiah Mannix, Michael H. Fitzgerald, William M. Perry, Arthur L. Coderre.
WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—John H. Ryan.
Deputy Warden—Patierk J. Kenney.
Clerk—Wilbur A. Robinson.
Deputy Clerk—John Irvine.
Inspectors—Thomas J. Maroney, Franeis J. Meehan,
Wilham Viens, Eli Archambault.
Deputy Inspectors—John F. Kennedy, Dennis M. Haggerty, Perle Marrs, George Chevalier.
WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Oudilon Moreau.
Deputy Warden—Louis Turgeon.
Clerk—Fred A. Monat.
Deputy Clerk—Joseph Charest.
Inspectors—Hilaire Jacques, Jr., George A. Tetrault,
Henry St. Cyr, Frederick Hamelin.
Deputy Inspectors—George A. Lawrence, Joseph U.
Smith, Wector Mousette, Peter L. Jarry.

ELECTION OFFICZRS  
WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Dennis Healey.
Deputy Warden—Jeremiah J. Hurley.
Clerk—Joseph B. Fontaine.
Deputy Clerk—Arthur E. Grise.
Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Jr., John E. Welch,
John L. Fournier, Max Weisbach.
Deputy Inspectors—John C. Colton, Elezar Robert,
Victor Messier, Stanislaus Donaldson.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT A. ,
Warden—Isador W. Davis.
Deputy Warden—Frederick T. Ball.
Clerk—James P. Hannan.
Deputy Clerk—William J. Leahy.
Inspectors—George Harnett, Jr.. Martin J. Conway,
Jeremiah J. O’Connor, Jr., Wallace M. France.
Deputy Inspectors—Edgar M. Osgood, John Thompson,
August H. Baush, John H. Carroll.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Paul H. Koehler.
Deputy Warden—Michael J. Shea.
Clerk—John Loweock.
Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin.
Inspectors—John F. Higgins, John Cronin, Frank A.
Wells, Fred Hoffman.
Deputy Inspectors—Charles E. Gillon, Henry J. Bey,
William B. Clements, Alfred J. Miller.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT C.
Warden—Thomas E. Begley.
Deputy Warden—Cornelius F. Lucey.
Clerk—James Bower.
Deputy Clerk—Howard G. Farr.

  ELECTION OFFICERS

Inspectors—Edwin A. Richardson, Donald R. Young,
Michael J. Connors, Edmond J. Slate.

Deputy Inspectors—John Lowell, Jr., Hugo Popp, AIfred P. Beauchemin, Leonard F. Comnor.

" WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.

Warden—William Ryan, Maple street.

Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Begley.

Clerk—John F. Shea, Chestnut street.

Deputy Clerk—Edmond Damour.

Inspectors—Frank Lamay, Patrick Shea, Maple
street, Hormisdas Thomas, George Hainel.

Deputy Inspectors—James Long, Constant Wolski, Sebastien Yenlin, Jr., John W. Brown.

WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Daniel J. MeCarthy, Lyman steetr.
Deputy Warden—Jeremiah J. Dillon.

Clerk—Timothy F. Lyons.
Deputy Clerk—Joseph K. Menard.
Inspectors—Joseph J. MeCarthy, Levi Russell, Edward
Fitzgerald, James P. Hobert.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Shea, Chestnut street,
Thomas Ash, Joseph Daudelin, Joseph Vallee.
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.
| Warden—Owen L. Hand.
Deputy Warden—David F. Mullen.
Clerk—Edward LB. Stratton.
Deputy Clerk—Frank A. Holt.
Inpectors—Frank L. Greaney, Daniel F. O’Connell, Tra
J. Humes, G. Herbert Foster. ]
Deputy Insptors—William J. O'Connor, Patrick Clifford, George A. Green, Daniel Flyun. "

ELECTION OFFICERS  
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Charles E. Van Valkenburg.
- Deputy Warden—Walter C. Hatch.
Clerk—F rank D. O’Connor.
) Deputy Clerk—Patrick J. Dempsey.
Inspectors—White P. Bidwell, Thomas J. Hart, Patrick
W. Fitzgerald, Joseph P. Nolan.
Deputy Inspectors—William A. Allyn, Thomas J. Kelliher, Frederick L. Bardwell, Michael Kerin.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Fred M. Ricker. |
Deputy Warden—Leander C. Hartzell.
Clerk—Lawrence F. Dowd.
Deputy Clerk—John R. Harrington.
Inspectors—Lawrenece H. Fortier, Charles McCauley,
George A. Lee, Joseph Morley.
Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Andrew Nye,
John. Vaughan, Robert E. Alben.
WARD SLX—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Edmund J. Lee.
Deputy Warden—Thomas Skillings.
Clerk—Frederick Shearer.
Deputy Clerk—George B. Avery.
Inspectors—Vineent D. P. Sheehan, Edward A. Driscoll,
Alexander Pratt, Robert D. Moore.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Cavanaugh, Nicholas Cavanaugh, James Gray, Edward Chambers.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Eugene C. Alderman.
Deputy Warden—George W. Doane.
Clerk—Bernard F. Bigelow.
Deputy Clerk—James J. Haggerty. |

|

  ELECTION OFFICERS 

Inspectors—Earl Mahaffy, Arthur R. Root, Linus D.
Crafts, William J. Dillon.

Deputy Inspectors—Raymond P. Allen, William R.
Chase, William H. Delaney, Charles L. Witherell.

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.
Warden—John M. James.

Deputy Warden—Charles M. Nelson.

Clerk—John W. Scolley.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph F. Griffin.

Inspectors—Ear  J. Cain, Edwin B. Evans, Levi E. Fay,
James J. Driscoll.

Deputy Inspeetors—Thomas E. Sullivan, John F. Murphy, Suffolk street, Thomas McGuiness, Frederick E.
Quirk.

OFFICERS FOR  .
WATER COMMISSIONERS. |
Thomas J. Carmody, Chairman.
Jesse E. Sheldon, Vice-Chairman.
Thomas J. Lynch, Treasurer.
WATER REGISTRAR.
Albert E. Pickup. ;
CLERK. |
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan.
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Miss Helen A. Hanley. .
SUPERINTENDENT.
Patrick Gear. |
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT.
Alexander H. O’Brien.
. ENGINEER.
Patrick J. Lucey.
INSPECTORS. ,
James F. Cleary.
Thomas E. Sullivan Eugene F. Kane.
Joseph B. Walsh Daniel F. Cray

| REPORT OF
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:
The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present
the following as their report for the fiscal year ending November :
RECEIPTS.
Balanee December ................... 
Water rents  ...  ... eeee   cease  
Rent of meterS.......  ...     eens  
Servl€e PIPE oo... ce   eens  
Interest on bank deposits..............  
Materials and labor... ...  ...     ees  
|S |
WO Lo.      ence  |
Apples ...  ...   cc      nee  |
Serap Won, Ct...        eens  
Tee privilege and supervision................  
Lease of land to Holyoke Street Railway Co.. |
Rent of Connery farm, and  .........  
SUNAVICS occ cc ce  ee    eens  
White Reservoir, for buildings, wood, hay, ete.  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Main pipe extension and supplies............ 
Service pipe extension and supplhies..........  
Main pipe repalrs.......         
Service pipe repalvs.......      
Hvdrants oo... cc   cc ce     eens  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Reservoirs:
Ashley and Wright Ponds, Whiting Street
and High Service..................  

Fomer .......     ce tcc ete teete   

White  ... cc     ene  
Supervision and inspection..............  
Meters ........    tee      s§  .
Barn oo...     ce   cect tee       
NS)  (Cl  
Automobile ......  ... cc   teens —
Engineering ..........   ete  
City of Holyoke, taxes.............cecc   
Interest on bonds.............     
Bonds:

From premium account.................  

From water rents account..............  
Damages, BE. H. Friedrich Co................. \
For all other purposes...............  

$ 
Cash in Holyoke National Bank... 
Cash in City National Bank......  
Cash in Home National Bank.....  
Cash in Park National Bank......  
Cash in Had. Falls National Bank. |
Cash on hand................  
$ 
December .

I hereby certify that have examined the books and
accounts of the Water Department for the year ending November found them correctly added and the
vouchers for payments properly approved.

| The cash balance, has been verified.
D. W. KENNEY, City Auditor.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

The finances of the department show gain in receipts
from water rents of  over those of the previous
year.

A tax of  on the construction account was
paid to the city, also serial bonds of  and interest on
bonds amounting to  of the serial bond
payment was made from the premium account.

The White reservoir expenditures were ,
$  of this amount being paid for the Alpheus Hall
property.

Included in the White reservoir expenditures is  paid from the water rents account for maintenance,
the balance, being charged to construction.

The balanee on hand at the close of the fiscal year was
$ divided as follows: Water rents account, White reservoir account, .

The earnings of the sinking fund amounted to .
The total amount of the fund on November was .

Water bonds amounting to issued June ,
and which matured June of this year were paid from the
sinking fund.

The outstanding bonds of the department aggregate
$  of this amount will be due January  ,
 and  on July the balance, is
in the form of serial bonds, some of which mature July of
each vear to  .

the net indebtedness of the department on November
  was .

On April of this vear Mr. John J. Kirkpatrick, for
many years our capable superintendent, Was appointed manager of the Gas and Eleetrie Department. While we were
reluctant to part with Mr. Kirkpatrick, yet we believe that

| Ifis Honor the Mayor acted wisely in selecting him for this
responsible position and that his appointment was compliment to the manner in which this department conducts
its affairs. Mr. Patrick Gear, connected with this departREPORT OF WATER BOARD  
ment since and assistant superintendent under Mr.
Kirkpatrick, was promoted to be superintendent and  his
report on the construction work, which is made part of
this report and to which you are respectfully referred, includes the work done under the former superintendent. Mr.
A. H. O’Brien, foreman for this department since  was |
appointed assistant superintendent.

Ten thousand five hundred and thirteen feet of new
mains costing  were laid this year, bringing the
total mileage of mains to miles.

The most important extension was the new  -inch main
on Northampton street, from Corser to Dwight streets, which
will prevent serious loss of pressure on the Highlands during
the period of greatest draft.

The long line of and  -inch pipe which was the main
feeder from the High Service  -inch pipe was perhaps the
weakest point in our whole distribution system and the reinforcement which it will receive from this new line of  meh pipe assures satisfactory pressure throughout this seetion of the city.

A new main of and  -inch pipe was laid on Hitcheock
street from the Hgh Service main on the Westfield road to
Northampton street and the house connections which were
on the down-town  -inch main were transferred to it. No
small services are now on this  -inch line (the most important of all our mains) from the reservoirs to the business
district and the necessity of shutting it off to repair small
services is now removed. )

About the usual amount of new mains was laid in new
streets to accommodate the growth of the city.

In April water was turned into the Smiths Ferry main
for the first time and this territory now possesses the water
supply and fire protection promised it when annexed to
Holyoke.

The practice of planting trees on the watershed, established some years ago, was followed this year and  
white pine seedlings were set out near the southerly end

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

of Ashley pond. Upon the advice of an expert forester
such trees in the vicinity of the Whiting Street reservoir
as were affected by the chestnut tree blight were cut down
and what was marketable was sold.

So that the watchmen around the reservoirs might have }
the authority to enforce the rules of this department they |
Were appointed special policemen and provided with suitable
uniforms.

A new runabout automobile was purehased for the superintendent and the old Knox ear in service for many years
Was given in part trade for new seven-passenger Knox for
the use of the Board for mspections. The old Elmore ear
is used to convey the laborers and tools as occasion may
require.

During the past year the average amount of water used
by each consumer was gallons per day, an inerease of  
per eent over what it was during the year  .

For many years past our consumption has been kept
down to about gallons per day per capita which provided liberal amount for legitimate use. While we have
an abundance of water in storage yet waste should not be
encouraged and we propose to keep the consumption at a
proper figure by suitable restrictions and closer inspection.

During the past year the change was effected whereby
the engineering work of this department is no longer under
the direction of the City Engineer. All maps, reeords, instruments, ete, pertaining to the water works which were
the property of this department were transferred to the new
drafting room fitted up in on the second floor of the
superintendent’s office on Commereial street. The practice
of placing the engineering work of this department under
the City Engineer was established in by Mayor Chapin
when he appointed the engineer then in charge of the engineering work of this department to be City Engineer.
This department has paid the salaries and expenses of such
engineering assistants as were required on its work.

It is generally agreed among engineers and others qualREPORT OF WATER BOARD  
ified to know that the water works engineering is the most
extensive and important braneh of municipal engineering
as well as the most highly specialized.

The tenure of office of city engineer however is limited one, he being appointed by the mayor for term of
three years, and his selection is one in which this Board has
no voice.

For some time this Board has been of the opinion that
better service would be rendered them by an engineer whose
training and experience had been mainly in matters pertaining to water supply than by an engineer unaccustomed
to this line of work and at the same time it was felt that the 
office of the engineer with all its maps and records of the
department should be more available for the use of the superintendent. ,

The responsibility of the engineermg work of this department now hes inside this department itself instead of
in department with powers as great as our own and over
which we have no control.

Accordingly, by unanimous vote of this Board, our first
assistant engineer since  Mr. P. J. Lueey, acquainted
with both the past and proposed future development of this
department, was appointed our engineer and the results for
the past year have justified our action.
The completion of the White reservoir, adding as it
does gallons to the total storage capacity, insures for many years to come against possible shortage of
water, even in series of dry years, if the future growth of
the city continues as in the past and proper rate of consumpton is maintained by vigilant inspection.

Not only, however, must this department have on hand
at all times an abundance of water, but  must also maintain in the distribution system at all times pressure suffieient for fire protection even when supplying at the maximum rate for other purposes.

Several times during the past year the loss of pressure
in both the High Service and down-town districts, sustained

— REPORT OF WATER BOARD
for short periods of time only, showed that the proper margin of safety either in the carrying capacity of the mains ;
feeding these districts or the mains in the districts themselves or in both no longer existed and that the time was
. not far away when new mains of larger size must be laid.
In the High Service district the greatest draft and consequent loss of pressure came during the time of the day
when the privilege was allowed of using water for lawn
sprinkling and garden hose; while in the down-town district the pressure was good except for few hours when
some of the mills were allowed the use of water in connection with their engines for condensing purposes. .
The use of water for condensing purposes is an unusual
one and occasioned by the fact that the water being out of
the canals the auxilary steam plants were started. Had this
Board prohibited the use of the city water for this purpose
the mills would be compelled to shut down and the employees Would have been thrown out of work. |
The meter on the High Service main showed that the
maximum rate of water used was gallons per hour
or gallons per day per capita for this district From
- computations made we find that the loss of pressure in the
main delivering this quantity of water as far as Northampton street was pounds, pounds of which was lost in that
part of the main from the High Service reservoir to the ,
Rock Cut gatehouse in which the main  inches in diameter, and the other pounds were lost from the Roek Cut
gatehouse to Northampton street in which the diameter of
the main is inches The average static head in this district is pounds and if we assume that the pressure should
not fall below pounds at any time in this district we see
that of the pounds allowed for loss of head by friction  
pounds would be lost mm the main feeder alone which is
plainly in excess of what it should be.
The down-town district  supphed by  -inch main
from Ashley ponds to the corner of Maple and Dwight
streets and  -inch main from Ashley ponds to the westREPORT OF WATER BOARD  
erly end of Hitchcock street where it is connected with the
 -inch. Our measurements show that the maximum rate
supplied by these two mains working together was at the
rate of eight million gallons per day in the  -inch and three —
million in the  -inch with loss of pressure in the mains of
  pounds. From the westerly end of Hitchcock street onward into the city all this eleven million had to be carried

, by the  -inch main alone, resulting in greatly increased loss
of pressure. The first branch off the  -inch is  -inch
main at the corner of Maple and South streets and our ealculations show that as much pressure was lost from Hitchcock street to Maple street through the single  -inch as is
lost from the ponds to Hitcheock street although the latter
distance is almost twice the former.

If new main, not less than inches in diameter, was
laid from the westerly end of Hitchcock street to Ball’s
corner and connected with the  -inch on Bh street a
rearrangement of the main feeders could be effected which
would result in greatly increased pressure in both these
districts. It is suggested that the High Service water be
carried in both the  -inch mains instead of one  -inch main
as at present and that the down-town water be carried by

' the  -inch alone instead of the and  -inch as far as
Hitcheock street as at present. From Hitcheock street onward the flow would be divided, part going through the  inch laid down on Hitecheock, South and Maple streets to
the business district and part carried by the new  -inch
proposed to be laid to the corner of Bh street and Northampton street and then down Bh and Appleton streets
to connect with the business district at High street through
the  -inch now partly used for the High Service district.

The following tables show the comparison of loss of
pressure under this proposed arrangement and the loss in
our mains as now working when each would be delivering at
the maximum:

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
DOWN-TOWN DISTRICT.
ARRANGEMENT ARRANGEMENT |
Loss of head in Ibs, Loss of head in Ibs.
delivering delivering  
gallons per day gallons per day
Rock Cut to Hitcheock St. lbs. lbs.
Hitcheoek St. to High St. Ibs. lbs.

Total lbs. Ibs.

Gain in pressure at High street working under new
arrangement, lbs.

HIGH SERVICE DISTRICT.
ARRANGEMENT ARRANGEMENT
. delivectn  ‘i Hh delivedin we ‘i  
| gallons per day gullons per day
H. Ser. to R. Cut gatehouse; Ibs. lbs.
Rock Cut to Ball's corner lbs. lbs.

Total Ibs. lbs.

Gain in pressure at Ball’s corner working under new
arrangement, lbs.

A suitable entrance to designate the water works property (something perhaps after the style of the arch across
the roadway at the Whiting Street reservoir) ought to be
built both at the High Service reservoir and at the easterly
entranee to Ashley ponds off Back street.

A building should be erected over the gates at Tannery
reservoir and also one over the large meters on the pipe line
from the ponds.

A new road from the northeasterly end of High Service
dam to the Rock Valley road ought to be built next year.

While this department is willing to change the  
hydrant nozzles at the request of the Fire Commissioners
from clutch connections to screw threads, yet it feels that it

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
should be compensated for it on account of the fact that the
nozzles were originally screw ends and were changed to
clutch couplings at the request of the same department and
nothing was received for it. This change ought to be effeeted for .

Your attention is called to the fact that this department
is furnishing to the mills and others in their sprinkler systems special privileges for which they pay nothing although
a source of expense to us. An inquiry into the fact as to
Whether or not the benefits they obtain in reduced insurance does not warrant proper charge for the same will be
made during the coming year.

The long-drawn-out lawsuit of L. M. Young against the
eity of Holyoke is still pending and recent public remarks
and private discussion and criticism seem to show that the
true facts in this case are not generally known even by
those to whom it would be the pleasure and duty of this department to acquaint with every detail of the case.

For the information of the general public, however,
Without prejudice to the city’s interest, we may explain that
this lawsuit relates to the construction of the masonry dam
at the White reservoir and offer the following brief history
of the events leading up to and subsequent to Mr. Young’s
claims for damages.

The Water Board for the year deeided that on
account of the natural growth of the city and the continued
shortage of water in storage in the reservoirs the time had
arrived when the proposed storage reservoir on the Manhan
brook should be constructed. This proposed storage reservoir was part of the original proposition to take the waters
of this brook for water supply and its construction was
delayed only till its necessity should become apparent,
which, in the opinion of the engineer at the time of writing
his report in  would be about the vear  .

This is only one of series of reservoirs which together
with another main from Fomer reservoir to Ashley ponds
and an auxiliary pipe line for the High Service reservoir are

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
required for the proper development of the Fomer watershed to its full capacity.
Accordingly in permission was received from the
Legislature to issue bonds in the amount of  for the |
construction of this reservoir and the purchase of the land
necessary or desirable in connection with it and the summer ,
and fall of were taken up with the surveys and mapping of the land to be purchased and the surveys and cross
sectioning about the site of the proposed dam.
However, before the City Engineer had earried his
study of the project so far as to be able to report to this
Board coneerning the character of the dam to be built—
Whether earthen or masonry, or to what height it should be
built or what its capacity should be—his term of office had
expired and these important features remained to be solved
by his successor, whom this Board instructed to prod in .
all engineering matters with the same authority and responsibility as his predecessor. Members of this Board at the
present time and in the past have been business and professional men and never have assumed to interfere in technical matters. They have, however, tried to be prudent and
watchful in all business affairs and especially cautious in an
- undertaking so important as the construction of dam of
this size.
When the preliminary work of preparing the plans and
specifications for the dam had been completed and they were
approved by the Board of County Commissioners of Hampshire county, bids were Invited and proposals secured from
about dozen contractors, the lowest bid being from L. M.
Young of Norwich, Conn., doing business as the Connecticut
Engineermg and Contracting Co.
For the basis of comparison of the bids the City Engineer had presented an estimate of the number of cubic
yards of each of the different features of work to be done,
that is, the number of cubie yards of roek excavation, the
number of eubie yards of earth excavation, the number of !
eubie vards of masonry, ete. Against each of these different

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
items, which were approximate, the bidder would place the
figure at which he would be willing to do the work; multiplying the number of eubie yards in each item by the price
asked and adding the products gave total which repre- ,
sented the bid of each contractor. Mr. Young’s bid totaled
$ his nearest competitor both out-of-town
eontractors and unknown to this Board or the engineer.
The nearest bid received from local contractor was about
$  and while this Board would much prefer that the
contractor be local one they did not eare to award the contract to him at such difference in the bids if Mr. Young
eould establish his reliability and furnish suitable bond,
both of which he was able to do and left this Board with no
alternative but award him the contract. .

So that this department might have as soon as possible
the benefit of the increase this reservoir would add to its
storage capacity it was provided the contract that the
work should be completed December and bonus
of  per day was offered the contractor for each day
earlier than this that he would complete the job. The contractor on his part agreed to pay to the city sum of 
a day for each day after December that the work was
not completed.

It was also agreed by the contractor that his rate of
progress for the completion of the work would be such that
he would have certain percentage of the total value of the
work done at certain specified time—for instance, September not less than per cent of the total value of the
whole work would be completed, ete.

At the commencement of the work and while it was
under construction this Board impressed upon the engineer

' that the engineering responsibility for its successful completion was entirely his and that he so understood it was evident from the many reports to this Board at their meetings,
and in the reports of the City Engineer for the year  
and for the year  .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

This Board, however, was aware at all times that the
duty imposed upon them as members of this Board was a
duty that could not be delegated to any one and an oversight on matters was maintained by official visits to the work
under construction.

Mr. Young’s progress on the work was such that on
December the date set for the completion of his

contract, about per cent of the work still remained to be
done and on account of the cold weather work was suspended till spring. That Mr. Young expected to renew the
work was shown by letter written by him to the City Engineer some time during the winter in which he stated that
fact and expressed wish for an early spring so he could
begin laying masonry again.

Later, however, this Board received letters from a
Springfield attorney saying that he was Mr. Young’s coun.
sel and that Mr. Young had turned the matter over to him
for settlement.

Finally an ultimatum was received from him stating
that Mr. Young was ready to prod with the work where
he left off but would do so only by the day plus percentage
of per cent. He claimed that the contract existing between the city of Holyoke and Mr. Young had been broken
or never existed by reason of fraud on the part of the city
on account ‘‘of the gross and inaccurate estimate of the
amount of work required to be done furnished by the City
Engineer’’. In addition he made claim of several thousand dollars for masonry put in the dam which was afterward rejected and removed by order of the City Engineer. |
He also claimed that various items of measurement were inaccurate and did not include as much work as he should be
paid for and he gave the city three days to agree to his
demands or he would begin suit. The late City Solicitor, M.
J. Griffin, informed the Board that on account of his serious
HIness he was unable to advise them in this matter and suggested that all papers and data in the case be turned over to
Mr. T. B. O’Donnell. This suggestion of Mr. Griffin was folREPORT OF WATER BOARD  
lowed but all the efforts of Mr. O’Donnell to arrive at an
amicable understanding with Mr. Young’s counsel proved
unavailing. No other arrangement than to agree to all the
demands of Mr. Young’s counsel expressed in his letters to
the Board would be considered by him so nothing remained
for this Board to do but reject these demands and stand suit.
Acting upon the advice of our counsel and under the provisions agreed to in the contract with Mr. Young, Mr. Young
having abandoned his contract, the Board seized such materials and tools used by him as were upon the ground. Bids
were invited for the completion of the job and the contract
awarded to D. O’Connell’s Sons who were the lowest bidders.

When this case came to trial it was referred to master
on aceount of the vast amount of detailed evidence, that
would be presented; already thirty-five days have been consumed by sittings of the court and the testimony is not all

, in yet. brief outline of the plaintff’s claims developed as
: the case proded js as follows:

Ist. Underestimating the quantity of work to be done
in the preliminary estimate.

 nd. That the judgment of the engineer concerning
condemned rejected work was wrong.

 rd. That inaccuracies and omissions occurred in the

. measurement of the amount of work for wheh he should be
paid.

 th. That he was damaged by the changing of the location of the line of dam.

All these claims and allegations relate entirely to technical matters on which this Board is not qualified to pass
judgment. They have no other course to pursue than to
oppose the contentions of the plaintiff that he was damaged
by alleged fraud perpetrated upon him by the Board, and
by the inefficient and careless work of the City Engineer and
his assistants. No act of this Board other than sustaining .
their engineer has been questioned by the contractor. So
that the City Engineer might have ample assistance this de  REPORT OF WATER BOARD 
partment has paid the salaries of two men in his office for the
vear whose only duties were the preparation of this
case.

CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT. |
Cost reported November ...........  

Increase during the year: .
Main pipe extension............ 
Hvydrants .........         
White reservoir ........  
MeterS  ...   ee    

$ 
Depreciation, per cent............-     
$ 

The cast iron mains were extended feet. For
location, size and length of extensions see Table A.

The length of east iron mains  miles, and of temporary wrought iron,  miles. For location, size and
length of mains see Tables and C.

Fifty-three gates were set In new locations. The total
number to date is  For location and size see Tables —
D and E. .

Eight hydrants were set In new locations, and four were
replaced. The total number of publie fire hydrants .
For location, ete., see Tables and G. Following Table is
a summary of fire service in the various mills in the eity,
which is additional to the above.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND, NOVEMBER .
(Bonds due  and  .)
Amount reported November ......... 
Increase during the year:
Interest on loans on real estate..... 
Interest on bonds.................  
Interest on bank deposits..........  
$ 
Paid bonds due June ................. ,
' 
INVESTMENT.
Loans on real estate.............  --  
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light bonds..  
City of Holyoke water loan bonds.............  
City of Holyoke school loan bonds............  
City of Holyoke sewer loan bonds.............  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank.... 
Cash in Home National Bank.......  
Cash in Park National Bank.......  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank  
Cash in City National Bank........  
$ 
Examined and approved.
WALTER W. EATON,
Certified Public Accountant.
January .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE SEVERAI
BOND ISSUES.
Bonds due in ($ ).
Loans on real estate......... .cecec 
; City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light bonds..  
City of Holyoke water loan bonds.............  
City of Holyoke school loan bonds............  
City of Holyoke sewer loan bonds.............  
, Cash in Holyoke National Bank.... 
Cash in Home National Bank....... |
Cash in Park National Bank....... :
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank  , 
(Bonds due in ($ ).
Loans on real estate.......  ...       
City of Holyoke Gas and Electrie Light bonds..  
City of Holyoke school loan bonds............  
Cash in City National Bank..................  
| 
All of which is respectfully submitted.
THOMAS J. CARMODY,
JESSE E. SHELDON,
THOMAS J. LYNCH,
Water Commissioners.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
SALARIES OF EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT.
Patrick A. Gear, Superintendent.............. 
Alexander H. O’Brien, Assistant Superintendent  
Patrick J. Lucey, Engineer...................  
Albert E. Pickup, Registrar..................  
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan, Clerk.............  
| Miss Helen A. Hanley, Assistant Clerk.........  
James FE. Cleary, Chief Inspector..............  
. Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector................  
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector...................  
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector................  
Daniel F. Cray, Inspector................. --  
Daniel F. Crowley, Caretaker at White Reservoir  
Mrs Catherine Powers, Caretaker at Fomer Res- 

Report of the Superintendent
To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners:

Gentlemen: have the honor of submitting to you the
report of your superintendent for the year ending November .

The able and efficient manner in which Mr. John J.
Kirkpatrick performed his duties as superintendent of this
department since May was recognized by His Honor

| the Mayor who promoted him to be manager of the Gas and .
Electric Department April The work done during
the four months of this vear while Mr. Kirkpatrick was superintendent is included in this report.
WORK AT TITE RESERVOIRS.

All the reservoirs were filled at the beginning of the
summer season and the maximum storage was reached on
May when million gallons were held in reserve. The
miumum storage was reached October when the quantity in reserve was million gallons, per cent of the
total storage.

Water was drawn from the White reservoir for the first
time on July when the gate was opened just enough to
keep the  -inch main from the Fomer reservoir to Ashley
“ponds discharging at full capacity.

The quality of water was good in all reservoirs during
the year except that in the White reservoir where the usual
condition attending new reservoirs was experienced. It was
hoped that the high color and unpleasant odor incidental to
the filhng of any new reservoir for the first time would be
removed by the aerating it would receive in traveling two
and one-quarter miles down the rocky gorges to the Fomer
reservoir, but such proved not to be the case and the water

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
in Ashley ponds was affected to large degree in appearance and odor; consequently, late in November, when it was
seen that the minimum of storage had been reached and the
different reservoirs were beginning to fill, the water remaining in the White reservoir was wasted and then the gates
were closed again to allow it to refill. It is very Hkelv that
this process of wasting the water in storage may be re- .
peated again next year although the color and odor is not
expected to be so unsatisfactory as it was this year. On
account of the large watershed which drains into this reservoir it is expected to easily refill itself if empty even in the
driest years. The gate was first closed November ,
and water overflowed March .

Except for the finishing touches on the grading at the

 Roek Cut canal very little work has been done at any of the

reservoirs this vear. Rip-rap was laid to one foot above
high-water mark on the slopes of the bank on each side of
the Rock Cut canal between the west abutment of areh and
the old Wright gatehouse. Loam was placed over the
gravel filling on the arch and side slopes and seeded to grass.

A start was made on some of the work which still remains to be done at the White reservoir and not ineluded m
either the construction of the dam or the preparation of the
reservoir site. Late in the fall when the rush of pipe laying
and new services was over such perinanent men as could be
spared were employed on the following various small jobs:

Stone monuments marking the corners of land bought
in eonnection with the White reservoir were set; owing to 
the negotiations with certain parties for additional land a
few more still remain to be set. .

Telephone poles for about mile of telephone extension
from the White resrvoir gatehouse to the caretaker’s dwelling were cut on woodlots of the department and set place.

One hundred and fifty-five feet of new fenee was built
across the old highway near the White reservoir dam.

Three hundred and twelve feet of drain for gutters and

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
seepage were laid outside the White reservoir dam and
along the highway.

At the request of the Selectmen of the town of Southampton the sharp curve near the bridge over the spillway
was eased by moving about feet of fence and constructing
a dry wall.

On the up-stream side of the core wall, at its junction
with the dam, the gravel back fill was removed and replaced
with elay puddle.

The surface of the ground between the core wall and
the high-water mark has been brought to more finished
grade and the surplus material was deposited on the inside
of the dam on the slope of the old banks .

A dry stone wall feet long was laid from the west
wall of the forebay northerly to prevent further wash of
loose material into the reservoir basin.

About loads of stones were dumped in the bed of
the old brook to receive the wash of the water from the spillWay In time of overflow.

The fenee along the highway, built by this department
In  total length of feet,, was painted as was also
the new iron fence built this year by contract.

A new floor was laid in the barn at Fomer reservoir.

The Lyman homestead, purchased by this department
in  was put in condition for occupancy by the ecaretaker of the White reservoir. The house was reshingled,
papered and painted on the inside and hot-air furnace
installed. At the Fomer reservoir the house was reshingled
and steam heating plant was substituted for the furnace
which had proven itself unsatisfactory.

Both of the barns at Ashley ponds and the barn at
Whiting Street reservoir were also reshingled this year and
a new conerete floor was laid in the wagon shed and storeroom at the shop.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.

Ten thousand three hundred and eleven feet of mains
were laid, as given below, making the total mileage of mains
about miles.

In Brook street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Grant street easterly. Cost .

In Claremont avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid 
from Northampton street westerly. Cost .

In Columbus avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from end of pipe laid in to Milton avenue. Cost
$ .

In Dartmouth street feet of  -inch and feet of
 -inch pipe were laid from end of pipe laid in westerly
to Nonotuck street. Cost .

In Dexter street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Hitchcock street southerly. Cost |

In Hitcheock street feet of  -inch and feet of
 -inch pipe were laid from Northampton street westerly to
the Westfield road. Cots .

In Lexington avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from end of pipe laid in easterly. Cost .

In Main street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Hancock street northerly. Cost .

In Milton avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Columbus avenue to Concord avenue. Cost .

In Morrill avenue feet of  -inch and feet of  inch pipe were laid from Northampton street easterly. Cost
$ ;

' In Nonotuck street feet of  -inch and feet of  inch pipe were laid from end of pipe laid in southerly
to Dartmouth street. Cost .

In Northampton street feet of  -inch and feet
of  -inch pipe were laid from Corser street northerly to
Dwight street. Cost .

In Olive avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Dwight street northerly. Cost .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
In Pleasant street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from |
Princeton street northerly. Cost |
In Potvin avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid |
from Grover street westerly. Cost .
In Prew avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Main strect westerly to Temple street. Cost .
In Prineeton street feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Nonotuck street easterly. Cost ,
In Ridgewood avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Northampton street westerly. Cost .
In Samosett street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Winter street to Center street. Cost .
In Winter street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
end of pipe laid in to Dwight street. Cost .
In Winthrop street feet of  -inech pipe were laid from
Northampton street westerly. Cost .
Eight hydrants were set at cost of located as
follows:
( In Dartmouth street at Nonotuck street, northeast
corner.
( In Iliteheock street, north side, feet east from
the Westfield road.
( In Milton avenue at Coneord avenue, southeast
corner.
( In Northampton street, between Shawmut avenue
and St. James avenue, west side.
( In Prew avenue near Main street, north side.
( In Princeton street at Nonotuck street, northeast |
corner.
( In Winter street, between Samosett street and !
, Dwight street, east side.
( In Winter street at Dwight street, southeast cor- |
ner. |
In Ivy avenue from Dwight street northerly feet of :
 -inch pipe were laid ,replacing the old  -inch main.
In Prew avenue from Main street westerly feet of
 -inch pipe was replaced by  -ineh pipe.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

In Newton place from Suffolk street northerly feet
of  -inch main was replaced by  -inech main.

In Dwight street from Main street easterly the old  Inch main was replaced with feet of  -inch pipe.

One hundred and fifteen new services, naking total
length of feet, were laid at cost of and  
old services were replaced at cost of .

Respectfully yours,
PATRICK GEAR,
Superintendent.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR  AS REGISTERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.
Consumption in Gallons. atl Cacia?
 
December,  
January,  
February,  
March,  
April,  
“Mav,  
June,  
July,  ]
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,   
*See report for explanation of Jarge consumption from July to November.
Largest week, August to  gallons, or
  gallons per day per capita.
Smallest week, December to gallons, or gallons per day per capita.
Largest day, August  gallons, or gallons per day per capita.
Smallest day, December gallons, or  
gallons per day per capita.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED IN
MILLS AND SHOPS FOR THE YEAR  .
 .
December ..........              
JANUALY  ...  cc         es  
February ..........      ces  
March ........          ees 
April wo...      ec       
May  ...       cc ce      
JUNE Loc    ce ee     ees 
JULY occ    ce eet    
AUGUSt Loe.   cc       ec     eens 
September .........             
October ......       
November ...........  ...            
Total .....            
NUMBER OF GALLONS OF WATER CONSUMED BY
ELEVATORS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES
FOR THE YEAR  .
 
December .....  ...           
JSANUATY  ... ec cc           
February .....,        
March .......   cecc   ence eens  
April  ...      eens  
May  ...     cc tee  ee      
JUNG coc      tte   teens  
JULYce  ene eens  
AUBUSt  ...            tees  
September ........  ...       ees  
October .......      t     
November ..........   t  ences  
Total ..  ...       

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE A.
Statement of Location, Size and Length of Extensions Made
in  .
a} po} O
Location  a
  
re re os
Brook street from Grant atrout
east (temporary), feet of
l-ineh galvanized pipe,
Claremont avenue from North- |
ampton street westerly,  
Cohunbus avenue from end of
pipe laid in to Milton
avenue,  
Dartmouth street from end of
pipe laid in  westerly
to Nonotuck street, 
Dexter street from Hitcheock
street southerly, :
Hitchcock street from Northampton street westerly to
Westfield road, 
Hvdrants,  
Lexington avenue from end of
pipe laid in easterly,  
Main street from Hancock
street northerly,  
Milton avenue from Columbus
avenue to Coneord avenue,  
Morrill avenue from Northampton street easterly, 
Nonotuck street from end of
pipe laid in southerly
Dartmouth street, 
Northampton street from Corser street northerly to
Dwight street,  
Olive avenue from Dwight
street northerly, ou |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE A.—Continued.
sala;ialal|ala
Location Pia
olaolola oe |
re re oS
Pleasant street from Princeton
northerly,  
Potvin avenue from Grover
street westerly, ft.  inch galvanized iron pipe
. (temporary main),
Prew avenue from Main street
westerly to Temple street,  
Princeton street from Nonotuck street easterly,  
Ridgewood avenue from N’thampton street westerly, |
Samosett street from Winter
street to Center street,  
Winter street from end of pipe
laid in to Dwight st’t,  
Winthrop street from Northampton street westerly,  )
White res’v’r dam, ), 
Total number of feet,  
a ,
Temporary main, feet of  -inch, feet of  -inch. )

  REPORT OF WATER BUARD
TABLE C.
Summary of small pipes laid for temporary mains divided as follows:

BAINCH Coc.   cc    ee     feet
Lo-Inch oo.         feet
LW y-imeh wo...        feet
Tin-imeh oo.eeee   feet
  -Imh wo.            feet

Total ......  ce       es feet
  miles.
TABLE  ).
Summary of Gates Set im  .
Location No. Size
Columbus at Milton avenue, feet  
inches south of north line of Columbus avenue in east line of Milton avenue (Chapman) .............- in.
Commercial at Hampshire street, feet
  inches east of west line of Commercelal strect, feet inches north of
south line of Dietz building (KenNCUIV) wo...    ees  in.
C‘oneord at Milton avenue, feet inches ,
north of south hne of Concord avenue,
in west line of Milton avenue (Chap- |
MAM) cove cc e    ees im.
Claremont avenue at Northampton street,
D  feet east of west line of Northampton street, feet south of north line
of Claremont avenue (Smith)....... in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location No. 
Dartmouth at Nonotuck street, feet
south of north line of Dartmouth
street, in east line of Nonotuck street
(Chapman) .........-.    eae in.
Dexter at Hitecheock street feet inehes south of north line of Hitchcock
street, feet inches east of west
line of Dexter street (Chapman)..... in.
High Service pipe line in Goodyear land
(Chapman) ...............    in.
Hitchcock street at Martin street, feet
. east of east line of Martin street,  
feet inches south of north line of
Hiteheock street (Chapman) ........ in,
Hitcheock street at Martin street, feet
  inches south of north line of Hitchcock street, in west line of Martin
street (Chapman) ..................  m.
Hitcheock street at Northampton street,
  feet inches east of west line of
Northampton street, feet south of
north line of Hitchcoek street (Water
Works Equipment Co.)............. in.
Hitchcock street at Westfield road, feet
| inches south of line of trees on north
side of Hitchcock street, feet  
inches east of west line of Westfield ,
road (Water Works Equipment Co.). in.
 Main at Hancock street, feet inches
north of south line of Hancock street,
  feet west of west rail of railroad
track (Water Works Equipment Co.) in.
Milton at Ridgewood avenue, feet west
of east line of Milton avenue, feet
north of north line of Ridgewood avenue (Chapman) ................-.. in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location No. Size |

Martin at Hitchcock street, feet south

of north line of Hitcheock street,  
, feet inches west of east line of Martin street (Chapman) .............. in.

Morrill avenue at Northampton street,  
feet south of north line of Morrill avenue, feet inch west of east line of
Northampton street (Chapman) ..... in.

Morrill avenue at east end of line, feet

| inches east of east line of Northampton street, feet inches south of
north line of Morrill avenue (ChapMAN) coc   e        in.

Morrill avenue at Northampton street,  
feet inches south of north line of
Morrill avenue, feet inehes west
of east lne of Northampton street
(Water Works Equipment Co.)......  in.

Northampton near Corser street, feet |
Inches north of hydrant on east side |
of Northampton at Corser street, |
feet inches west of west rail of |
railroad traek (Smith) ............. in.

Northampton street at Claremont avenue, |
  feet inch south of north line of
Claremont avenue, feet east of west
line of Northampton street (Chap  in.

Northampton at Sargeant street, feet
east of west line of Northampton
street, feet south of north line of
Sargeant street (Chapman)......... in.

Northampton street at St. James avenue,

  feet east of west hne of Northampton street, In north line of St. James
avenue (Chapman) .............. in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location No. Size
Northampton street at Dwight street,  
feet east of west lime of Northampton
ton street, feet inches south of
north line of Dwight street, (Water
Works Equipment Co.)............. in.
Northampton at Sargeant street, feet
  inches east of west line of Northampton street, feet north of north
line of Sargeant street (Chapman)... in.
Northampton street at St. James avenue,
  feet south of north line of St.
James avenue, feet east of west
line of Northampton street (ChapMAN) Lo.  ec   tee   in.
Northampton street at St. James avenue,
  feet sduth of north line of St.
James avenue, feet east of west
line of Northampton street (ChapNorthampton street at St. James avenue,
  feet south of north line of St.
James avenue, feet east of west .
line of Northampton street (ChapMAN) Lo...   ce   ce       in.
Olive avenue at Dwight street, feet east
of west line of Olive avenue, feet
, inches north of south line of Dwight
street (Water Works Equipment Co.) in.
Pleasant at Princeton street, feet north
of south line of Princeton street,  
feet east of west line of Pleasant
street (Chapman) .................. in.
Prew avenue at Main street, feet  
inches east of west line of Maim street,
  feet inches south of north line of
Prew avenue (Water Works Equip- .
ment Co.)  ...   eeees in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location No. Sic:
Prineeton at Nonotuck street, feet  
Inches south of north line of Prineeton street, In east line of Nonotuek
street (Chapman) .............. in.
Ridgewood avenue at Northampton street,
  feet south of north line of Ridgewood avenue, in west line of Northampton street (Chapman).......... in.
Sargeant street at Northampton street,  
feet west of east line of Northampton
street, feet north of south line of
Sargeant street (Chapinan)........ in.
Samosett at Winter street, feet south
of north line of Samosett street, in
west line of Winter street (Chapman) in.
Samosett at Center street, feet west of east line of Center street, feet
south of north line of Samosett street
(Pratt Cady) ................... in.
Temple street at Prew avenue, foot
south of north line of Prew avenue, ]
feet east of hydrant on Temple street
, at Prew avenue (Chapman) ........ in.
Winthrop at Northampton street, feet
south of north line of Winthrop
| street, in west line of Northampton
street (Chapman) ............... in.
Winter at Dwight street, feet west of
east line of Winter street, south
line of Dwight street (Chapman).... in.
White reservoir gatehouse,  (Chap- .
man sluice gate)............... in.
White reservoir gatehouse, (Chapman sluice gate)......  ...     in.
. White reservoir gatehouse, (Pratt &
OE in.

, REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location No. size
White reservoir gatehouse, (Pratt &
OF Ke  in.
GATES FOR HYDRANTS. fi
Allyn street between Pearl and Pleasant street, feet inches west of hydrant, feet north of hydrant (Chap- an
MAN) wo.         ees in.
Beacon avenue’ at Parker street, feet  
inches south of hydrant (Pratt &
Cady) ...      ene   in.
Congress avenue at Elm street, feet  
inches north of hydrant (Pratt &
Cady)  ...  cc  ec     in.
Dartmouth at Nonotuck street, feet  
inches south of hydrant (Chapman).. in.
 Gates at Chapin street, feet inches
south of hydrant (Pratt Cady).... in.
Hitchcock street feet east from Westfield road, feet inches south of hydrant (Chapman) ................. in.
Milton at Concord avenue, feet inches
west of hydrant (Chapman) ........ in.
Main street near Beebe Webber Co. )
feet inches east of hydrant (Pratt &
Cady)  ...           eens in.
Main at South street, feet inches east
of hydrant (Chapman) ............. in.
. Northampton street between Shawmut
: and St. James avenue, feet east of
hydrant (Chapman) ............... in.
Prew avenue near Main street, feet  
| inches south of hydrant (Chapman).. in.
Prineeton at Nonotuck street, feet  
inches south of hydrant (Chapman).. in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD /
Location No. Size
Winter at Dwight street, feet inches
west of hydrant (Chapman)......... in.
Winter street between Samosett and
Dwight street, feet west of hydrant (Chapman) .................. in.
Total,  -in.;  -in.;  -in.;  -in.;  -in.;  in.;  -in. Total,  .
Sluice gates,  -in.;  -in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE F.
Summary of Hydrants Set in  .
Location (Corner or Side) and Make.  -in. double.
Dartmouth and Nonotuck street, northeast corner
(Holyoke) ......  ...     ]
Hitchcock street, north side,  .feet east of Westfield road (Holyoke).....................  
Milton at Concord avenue, east side (Holyoke)... ]
Northampton street, west side, between Shawmut
and St. James avenue (Holyoke)............  
Prew avenue, near Main street, north side (Hol 
Princeton at Nonotuck street, north side (HolA)  |
Winter street, east side, between Samosett and
Dwight streets (Holyoke)..................  
Winter at Dwight street (Holyoke)............. ]
Total  ...  een   
TABLE F.
Hydrants Replaced.
 -in. Double.  -in. Double
Main street, west side, near Beebe Webber Co. (Holyoke) .................. :
(Replaces  -in. single Holyoke.)
Main at South street, northwest corner
(Holyoke) ......................  
(Replaces  -in. single Holyoke.)
Mt. Marie near Ingleside (Holyoke).......  
(Replaces  -in. double steamer Ludlow.)
Race at South street (Holvoke)...........  
(Replaces  -in. single Matthew.)
, Total, 

|
  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS. ;
 -inch, one out ...  ...    cc teen eens  -ineh, two Outs ......  cc ce   tenes 
O-Inch, twO OUTS ....       eens  
G-Inch, two OUtS ....... ee    es  -inch, three outs...  ...ee    
G-inch, one OUt ....      eens  -ineh, three Outs ....  ...   eens  
Cistern co...         tect   
Total oo...         ne 
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CITY
OUTSIDE CITY HYDRANTS, TO DATE.
  stand pipe outs.
  single hydrants. )
  double hydrants.
  triple hydrants. |
  four-arm hydrants. |
  cellar hydrant. |
  mills usmg perforated pipe sprinklers.
 mills using automatic sprinklers.
  fire pumps at mulls.
  tank containing gallons.
  tank eontaining gallons. ,
  tank containing gallons. |
  tanks containing gallons each.
  tanks containing gallons. |
|

REPORT OF WATER BUARD  
METERS IN USE.

poe }oleoeleal/elelo| 
Sle ie]; Sle
Make  |. ). ). ). is

aimIiIninml+tivo
Crest,  
Crown,  
Empire,  
Empire Compound,  
Gem, 
Hersey,   
Keystone, 
King,  
Lambert, );  
Nilo,  
Thomson, D
Trident, 
Trident Compound,  
Union, 
Worthington, );   

 os]  
| Total, /  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
METERS ON HAND  .
Crown.
SA NCH. Lo   eens  X
B  MCN. LL.      teens  X
BA INCH...   nes  
BA INCH.  ...         
BA ANC.      
TF VX Cl  
BA INCH. Le      eenes  
SA NCH. LL    ee    
Lo oimeh... ce    
Lo oimeh...   ec ce   tee    
Lo omeh.. cc.   eens  
Lo oimeh.. i...     ees  
Lo oainch. ..    ene  
TWA inch...     INCH...       
Empire
a  
WO UNC. Lee    teeaes  
Dy NCH.     ees  
A  G)  
BANC. LL         
a  
kW OO 
Looameh. ce   pee  eens inch... cc   nee  
Tn inch... ec e  eens  
Hersey.  OS  
BE INCH. ec   nen  nes  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
OO  X)  
BA INCH...   eet   
BA INCH.      eterna  
BA ANCH.  ce    teens  
BA MCh...    eens  
BA MCN... ec ce         
BUD CC) 
yy DC)  
Lo oimch. ec ce   eens  
QZ INCH...ccte    eens  
/ inch.......      ees Imch......          
Keystone.
 YO)  
King.
FQ INCH...         
(  inch... ..     nees  
Yo INCH... cc ec   ee   ees  
- Yo INCH... ceeettetas  
Ye MCh...eeee   eens  
Wo MCN...        
Wo          ete  eneeaes .
BQO MCh...   eens  
De INCh...ec    ae    
DQ INCH... ec     et eeaae  
Lambert.

  UX  
Wy inch... ..  ec cet   
Thomson.

A Wa 
Tm inch...   ce ce      imch.....        

' REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TVG inch...  ...      
yA) Cl |
Trident.

DC  

a  
Lo oinche i... ec !
a  Cl  

Worthington.

A OG  

A 

SO DCC.  

SE IMC. oeee ete     ees  

SM  Cl  

SI  

SS 

TS  cc  

a OC  

BA INCH. Lc    teen   nes  

ST TC  

SE  rc  

A co  

OC DC  

CC)  

SO TT |
  omeh..... cc.     .
J oointhe        :
| UCC |
Looinch.   ence cence eens  
| TS  
STG  
Lo och... cc.    nee  
Lo ooimeh.....   cc     ce      
J oineh. cc. ee    
Lo inch...  ee     
Looineh. ce    eens  

: REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Lo ainch....      ees QI 
Lo ameh... cc cc  ees  
Lo inch... e tes  
pC CC) 
Lo ainch... es  
Lo inch... cc  e tence  
Lo oinch...       
bn  inch...      ees  
“Lo anche. ce    
Lo oimeh... ccete  
Linch... cc c   
Wy inch... c   ete  
TW Inch... e teens  
T inch... ce eens MCh... ec ec     ees Inch...   eens  
A VX Cl INCH... cc     NCH... ..ee  teens Inch... .. ee    Inch...      neh... ...  ee        
APPRAISAL OF STOCK.
Stock, tools ,supplies, fixtures, ete., of the Superintendent’s division, on hand November amounting to
$ .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

TABLE J.

Showing Number and Classifieation of Water Takers. :
Rated.
Art StUd]O Jo...         weenie  
Automobiles  ...  ce tec ee ence nee aee  

Automobile stations ..........     ee     |
Automatic dampers ........  ...    
Awning manufacturers ...  ...          ]
Barber Shops  ...       tenn ees ad
Band room... c      ees  
Banks  ... cc cc    tee     
Baths ...  ... cc ec   ce tee     
Baths, extrac...     ect    
; Beer pumps  ...      
Beer bottlers ......  ...           
Blacksmith and earriage shops...............  
Boarding houses ........        
Board of trade...  ... ec   teens  
Boller shop ....                J
Boers co... cc   ence   )
Bonded warehouse  ...  ...   eens  
Box Shop ........   eeteen nee   
Bowling alleys  ... ....    ce  t  
Brass foundry ...  ...        
Broom manufactories  ...       
Brick yard wo...    een nee  
Business college  ... ec ec      
Carbonators ....  ...       ees o
Cattle oo... cc      eens lil
Cement block works. ........ eeenna “
Cement pipe works. ..... ...    ees a
Cemeterles oo.  ...   cc cc ec  een  aues  
Churches .....   ce     us  ,
Chureh organs  ... cc    eaees  
Cigar manufactories oo... ...         

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Club houses ....  ...     ete  ees  
Club rooms ........  ce      teen eens  
Cold storage plant..........  ...       
Coal and wood yards.........  ...   ween eens  
Compressed air pumpS...........         
ConventS  ... cc  cc ce      ees  
Creamerles .....     eens  
DentistS ...  ... cc            
Dressmakers .......  ...  cc ete ence   .
Drug storeS .......   et   teen eens  
Dye Works  ... c teenies  
Electric car sprinkler. ..........      
Electric ear hydrants....... ..  ...   ]
Blevators, PIstOn .......        ees  
ENgineS ...  ... cc        
Express Company ........  ...        tenes  
Families .....  ...         
Fountain and rotary sprinkler....................  
Furniture ware roOms.............          
Gas holder ..........             eaee  
Gate house, H. W. P. Co...........  ...     
Glazed paper works.........  ...         
Green houseS ............    t eas  
Grist mills  ...  enas |
GYMMASIUMS  ...  ...            
Hair dresserS ........   e     eens  
Halls ...    ce       
Harness Works .........        cence  as  
Horses ......      ce ete   veces  cese  
Hose ... cc   cc   cette ects  s se  
Hotels ....  ...   ce  t tenaees  
Hydraulic press ......  ...   eet eens  
Tee dealers ...  ...     eens  
Tron works  ... cc    cent eens  
Knitting works ......... ec         
Laundries ......  ...   ce    as  
Lithographers .......  ...         eens  

  REPORT OF WAYLER BOARD
Livery stables .......  ...  tee      
LOCOMOLIVES  ... eet ete tee  
Lodging rooms .........  ...   ee     eens  
Log cabin ......  cc          
Lumber yards ......  ...       
Machine shops .........    ec ec      
Meat markets .......  ...   cc   et eens  
Millinery parlors .......... ese       |
Motors .....             
Mold coolerS .......  ...    eens  
Municipal milk sttaion..........  ...       
Offices  ...     ene eens  
Parks  ...     ec   eter     |
Passenger and freight depots.................. !
Photo studios  ... ..           |
Planing mills ........  ...        :
Plating works ..........        eens  
Playgrounds .........       tenes  
Plumbers ........     ec et  
Pool rooms .......    eet   tee teens ;
- Printing offices  ...  cecteens !
Public bath rooms.............           
Publie drinking fountams.....................  
Public reading TOOMS......... +e          
Publie sanitarieS ........  ...         
Rag shops ......   ce      eens |
RestaurantS  ...    ce      eens  
Road rollers .......   eet     ees  
Round houses ........       eens  
Rotary washersS .......  ...      eens  
; Sausage manufactorieS .......  ...     
School houses  ...  ...    tee   ees  
SNOPS co.cc     ec     tet teen nee  of
Slaughter house  ...  ... 
Soda bottlers  ...  ...      eens  
Soda fountains  ...  ...      
Stand pipes c....  ...   cent  Do

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Steam and gas fitters.............  cc        
Steam stone polishing............... cc   
Stone crusher ...........         ce eeaes  
Stome yards .......  ...      cence   
Storehouses ...........     
Street sprinkling carts...............  cc    
Tailor shops ...........  ... cc  cc ce eu    
Tanks for glasses.........  ...    . .
Telephone exchange ..............      uee  
Theaters ........      se c  
Tin SHOPS .......  ...      evecs  
Tumbler washers ...........     uee  
Undertakers ........          
Urinals  ... ..  ...  cc    eens  ey  ]
Vacuum water cleaners............. ..  ec .  
‘Vegetable sprinklers .........  ...       
Veterinary hospitals ........ ..  ...   cc   
Wading pools ............         
Water closets ........  ...          
Water closets, extra... ...  ...      cc  .  
Water Power Co. .......  ...     .  
Watering troughs ..........  ...      aee  
Wash motors .........  ...      
. Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.

; Metered.
Almshouse ........  ...          nes ]
Alpaca mills  ... ..           
Auger bit works......... ..  ... cc     
Automatic dampers ...........    
Automobiles ........  ...       
Automobile stations .........  ...     ees  
Bakeries ........  ...   cc    teen ec nee ns  
Barber shops ...........       eens )
Bar works .......      eens  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Baths .o cc   cc        tees  
Beer botthng ...  ...       eet  
Beer pumps  ...   ee          D
Belt shops  ...           s  
Blacksmith shop .........       ees ]
Blanket mill oo... et  eines  
Bleach and dve tanks...........  ...      
Book binding  ...  ...        eens  
-Botlers co...          ene  
Boiler SHOPS .......         eens |
Brass foundry ...  ...       eens  
Brass window furnishings. ........    
Broom manufacturing co...  ...ce   
Cattle cc... cc ce  nee   eens  
Chemieal laobratories  ...ee ees  
“Churches oo...  cc         eens  )
Church organs  ...       teenies  
City hall co...  ec      nee  
Club roo ....ee     teen wees  
Cold storage plants... ..  ...     ee    
Colored Cotton  ... ce   eens ]
Compressed alr pumpS........  ...      eens  
Condensers ...  ... ce   ene  
; COonventS cc...  ce     ee   
Cotton mills  ...ee et   teeee ees  )
Cotton thread and twine manufacturers ..........  
Crabbing machines  ...  ...           Crimping machines .......    eens  
Dandy roll manufactory .......  ...      
Dentists oo... cc  cc ce   ec    eaes  
Domestie science oo...  ...  ec ce   ence eeaas ]
Drug stores  ...      tena   
Drying kilns  ... ..        eet eens  
Dve Works  ...  cc  teen 
Electrie car station oo.  ...   e    
Eleetrie heht station .........  ... ce    
Electrig power stations :........        

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Electrotyping ..........         nes  
Elevators, by piston ...........         
Elevators, by motor ...........c   rere    
EngineS .....           t  eee  
Envelope manufactury .............. ec  ee    
ExpresS Company ........-.         tenes  
Families  ... cc         cs 
Fire engine houses .............. ececace  
Fountains  ...     ce   tenes  
Gas WorkS ,.....  ...   cc  ete tence    ns  
Gas holders .......  ...        
Glazed Paper works ........... cc     eens  
Green house ......... cc  cc    eens ]
Grindstones ..........  ...           
GVYMNASIUMS ...  ...     ees  
Halls...  ...       tent  nees  
Horses ....  ...     ete   ees  
Hose...   ce   eet  cs  
Hospitals  ...      ees  
Hotels  ...     ec ete    eens  
Home for aged people ................ ce   eens  
Hot water boilers  ...  ...        ]
Hydraulic press .......  ...     ences  
Hygienic drinking fountains................... ..  
Tron foundries ........  ...   tet teeee    
Job printing ..........    eens  
LaundrieS ....... cc cc cc   cc ce tec teen eens eens  
Livery stables .......  ...     eens  
Lodging rooms .........    ee   et   
Lumber yards ...........-.          
Machine shops ...........     tee   nees  
Mattress works ............    eens i
Meat markets .........        t      
MotorS ......    cc ec ec     eet   eens  
Nursery oo...     tee eet     eens  
Offices ...       cence  

go REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Opera houses ........          ees |
Paper machineS ...........      eeaes 
Paper mills .......  ...ee        
Paper pad manufactories...............   wees  Passenger depot ...........     cence   
Planing mills  ...  ... cc           
Plumbers .............     enes  
Plush manufactory ........  ...    ewes )
Police court ....  ... cc e     |
Post Office  ...     cc    ete   eens ]
Pork packing houses............ eve   es |
POO] TOOMS  ...      tect       |
Print machines .......  ...           |
Primers for PUMPS...........      |
Public bath houses...........    eens !
Publie bath rooms.........  ...  ees  
Publie library ......              !
Public sanitary ........      ees  
Reading rooms .........  cc etetee   ees :
RestaurantS  ... .. cc cc    ce cence teens  
Rotary washerS ..........    t  |
SalOOnS .... ec    teen ees  |
School houses .........        eens |
Sereen plate Works...........  ...        !
Sealing wax manufactory............. ce        
C  |
Silk mills oo...       een     ,
Singeing machines .........  ...    ees Size tubs  ... ce       s  
Soap tanks ......  ...         
Soda bottling ......  ...          eens Oo
Soda fountaims .......  ... cc  ee     )
Spraying machines ............        
Spring bed manufactory..........  c.        
Steam and gas fitters.......  ...  ee   
Steaming machines .........  ... ee ence   
Steam pump manufactory............ .. ceca    

- REPORT OF WATER BOARD g!
Steam stone cutting. ..........      
Stone yard ........           a:  
Tanks for glasseS..........  ...    eens  
Tailor ShopS ...........       
Testing flume ........  cc        tees  
Telegraph offices ........  cc      teens  
Tissue paper manufactory..............   ees  
Tumbler washerS ...........      
Urinals  ...  ...       
Water closets .....  ...     ce    eet  ces  
Water wheel governors. ............   D
Water rolls for Wire. .......  ... ce       
Wire mills ...  ...  eens  
Wire WeAVING .......    cet  eet ees  
Woolen mills ..........       eens  

|
g  REPORT OF WATER BOARD |
TABLE K. |
Suminary of Stand Pipes.
Appleton street near Deane Steam Puinp Co.........  
Appleton street, near Main.................... 
Ball’s corner, near Bh.............  ... ce  ,  
Brown avenue, near South....................  .
Brown avenue, near View...............  
Bh street, near Appleton..................... ]
Bh street, near Hampden.............. oe.  
Bowers street, corner Samosett............... 
Bridge street, corner Canal (Ward  )..............  
Bridge street, corner Canal (South Holvoke)... |... !
Bridge street, south of Sargeant (South Holvoke}..  
Bridge street, near No.  ...  ...       |
Canal street, near Lyman............... ce   j
Center street, corner East Dwight street........ ..  
Center street, near Lyman......... ...   |
Chestnut street, corner Sargeant. ............. ... |
Chestnut street, corner Cabot................. .. |
Chestnut street, corner Prospect................  
Cabot street, near Race... ..  ...ee|
City yard, Coinmercial......  ...         
Cabot street, near Cabot street mill........ ..  
Dwight street, near Nonotuck....................  
Fast street, corner Hamilton.................. |
Elm street, near Suffolfl.......... ........  ]
Essex street, near Maple....  ...ee 
Front street, corner Fountain. ..............   |
Hampden street, corner Nonotuck................. !
Hamilton street, corner Canal.................. 
High street, at City Hall....      F
Jackson street, near Holyoke Paper Co.’s mill......  
Linden street, corner Bh. ...... ... eens A
Locust street, near Cabot...........     |
Main street, near South. ........  ...   ]
Maple street, near Hampden................ ..  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Maple street, near South................     
Meadow street, near Main (Springdale)...........  
Northampton street, near No..  ................  
Northampton street, near Heywood's..............  
Northampton street, near Cooley’s..............-. 
a Northampton street, near Gilman................-.  
Nonotuck street, near Fairfield avenue.............  
Park street, corner Boiler works..................  
Pine street, corner Dwight................    ]
Pine street, corner Hampshire....................  
Quiney street, at Northampton..................  
Race street, at Armour’s...............      
Railroad street, corner Appleton..................  
School street, near Dwight..................  ]
Sargeant street, near Maple................... ]
Sargeant street, near Park...............   ]
South street, near Northampton...................  
St. Jerome avenue, near Sargeant..............--.  
Taylor street, near Hampden................... ..  
Washington avenue, corner South................. ]
Willow street, near Laurel............... .....  ]
Total ....         : OO

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE OF RAINFALL IN INCHES AT THE SEVERAL
RESERVOIRS FOR  |
High Whiting |
Ashley Fomer Service Street |
Ponds. Reservoir. Reservoir. Reservoir.
January,  
February, |
March, !
April,  
May, !
June, |
July, |
August, :
September,  
October, |
November,  
December,  
Total,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
HEIGHT OF WATER AT WHITING STREET RESERVOIR,  .
December  th, feet;  th, feet inches;  st,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.
January  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
February Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  nd, feet inches.
March Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, .
  feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches.
April  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
May  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet  
inches.
June  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
July  th, feet inches;  th, feet ineh;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.
August  nd, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches.
September  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
October  th, feet inches;  th, feet ineh;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inch.
November Ist, feet;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inches!  nd, feet inches;  th feet inches.
Average height for year, feet.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY PONDS  .
December  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st,
  feet inches;  &th, feet inches.
January  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
February Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th  feet inches;  nd, feet inch.
March Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
April  th, feet inches;  th, feet mehes;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
May  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet inches.
June  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, |
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
July  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  th,  
feet inch;  th, feet inches.
August  nd, feet inches;  th, feet;  th, feet
  inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches. |
September  th, feet imehes;  th, feet;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.
October  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
November Ist, feet ineh;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches.
Average height for year, feet inches.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
HEIGHT OF WATER AT HIGH SERVICE RESERVOIR,
 .
December  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 st, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
January  th, feet inches;  th, feet;  th,  
feet inch;  th, feet inches.
February Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches; |
loth, feet;  nd, feet inch.
March Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
April  th, feet meh;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
May  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, ,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet :
inches.
June  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
July doth, feet inches;  th, feet imches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
August  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
September  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet neh.
October  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  dth, feet inches.
November Ist, feet inches; Sth, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet
| inches.
Average height for year, feet.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE SHOWING RAINFALL AND OVERFLOW AT |
ASHLEY PONDS AND WHITING STREET RESERVOIR DURING THE YEAR  .
ASHLEY PONDS. WHITING STREET.
Month. in Inches, in Gallons. in Inches. in Gallons
May,  
January,  February,  
March,  
April,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
December,  
Total,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE

WATER WORKS, NOVEMBER .

Population, Water Departinent census of .

Date of construction,  .

Works owned by the city.

Source of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage
reservoir, three and one- half miles from the city, two
mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the southwest branch of the Manhan river—intake and storage
reservoirs at Southampton and Westhampton.

Mode of supply—gravity.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
FINANCIAL. mo |
Receipts.
A. Water rates, fixed..................... 
B. Water rates, metered.......... .. 
C. Total receipts for water............... 
D. ServiCe PIPC oo...   ee      
E. All other sources... .....  ... cc     
BF. Gross receipts .. ec ss 
G. Cash balance, December ........ }
—— |
$  !
Expenditures. |
AA. Management and repairs..............  |
BB. Services and repairs............  
CC. Running expenses for  ............  ,
DD. Interest on bonds........ ............  
EE. Total maintenance .................... 
FF. Taxes, City of Hlolyoke................  
GG. Bonds, White reservoir.............  
HII. Materials, labor, ete... ...... .. ..  
Il. Cash on hand and in banks.............  
| JJ. Balance to construction. ............  
$ 
Construction.
Balance wo... ee  
KK. Extension main pipe........ 
LL. Hydrant .............. ..  
MM. Reservoirs ................  
NN. Meters ..............  
, ————— 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
OO. Depreciation, per cent................  
PP. Net cost of works to date..............  
QQ. Bonded debt ..................++ -+.  
W. Value of sinking fund, Nov. .....  
KX. Net debt ............          es  
| CONSUMPTION.
 Population,  Water Dept. census.  Population on line of pipe, Water Dept. .
CENSUS  ...ens  Population supplied, Water Dept. census  Total gallons consumed for year.......  Passed through meters and B........ )
 Average daily consumption, gallons....  Gallons per day to each inhabitant......  Gallons per day to each consumer )...  Gallons per day to service tap.........  
DISTRIBUTION.
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and cast iron
and lead lined.
 From ineh to inches.
 Extended, feet large.
 Discontinued, temporary mains less than
 -inch ..............    ss miles
 Mains,  -inch and upward.............. miles
 Temporary mains, less than inches.....  miles
 Total length of distribution............. miles
 Number of leaks in city,  in Fomer line
  Cost of repairs per mile................ Hydrants added ................     Hydrants now in use, public and  
private hydrants (see Table G).

  REPORT OF WATER BUARD
 Hydrants frozen ........... ... none
 Hydrants repaired .............  Hydrants replaced ....................  Stop gates added ................. Stop gates now in use (see foot of Table E)  Stop gates less than  -inch.............  Number of blow-off gates..............  Range of pressure on main at office, per
day and night, to pounds.
Main street, per day and night, to .
  pounds. |
 Stand pipes in use............-     OO :
 Gates repaired ........  ...     |
 Gates replaced ...........ee    |
;  Gates taken out. ......  ...   none
SERVICE.
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, cast  ron
lead lined, tin lined and galvanized.
 From  to  -ineh size of service.
 Leaks .....  ...     etnee  Cleaned and repaired..................  Frozen services thawed out............ none .
 Replaced services ..........    Extended .......  ...   ce  feet
 Discontinued ...........     Total now in use (estimated)........... feet
 Services added .........  ...  ,  Number now in use................ |
 Average length of service.............. feet |
All sizes,  !
 Average cost of service in  ... to in. |
inelusive, 
of, Meters added ................... .: Meters discontinued ..................  Meters repaired .............   

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  Meters now im use......  ...      Indicaotrs on elevators and organs......  Service boxes repaired.................  Water shut off.............  Water turned on.........  ...    Leaks—faucets,  water closets, Leaks repaired—faueets,  water closets, ............  ...    Valves sealed im mills..................  Seals broken in mills..................  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO
NOVEMBER .
Water Commissioners for Construction of the Work Elected
by the Town of Holyoke.
William B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February .
John Delaney, elected March term expired
February |
John E. Chase, elected March term expired :
 .
Dennis Higgins, elected March term expired
February !
Joel Russell, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  |
 term expired February .
J. P. Buckland, Clerk of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February !
L. P. Bosworth, successor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February .
C. W. Ranlet, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.
Engineers and Superintendents for Construction of Works.
Messrs. Shedd and Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting
engineers.
EK. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.
Davis Ellsworth, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis
May,  .
Moses Stevens, pipe inspector.
Water Commissioners Elected by the City Council. )
J. P. Buckland, elected February term expired
February .
Dennis Higgins, elected February term expired
January .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
James G. Smith, elected February deceased July
  .
J. A. Sullivan, elected February term expired
January .
James F. Allyn, elected February term expired
January .
C. H. Heywood, elected July term expired
January .
Timothy Merrick, elected January term expired January .
Maurice Lynch, elected January term expired
January |
James E. Delaney, elected January resignation
accepted January .
Moses Newton, elected January term expired
January .
James J. Curran, elected January resignation
accepted February .
Martin P. Conway, efected January term expired January .
Charles D. Colson, elected January term expired
February .
John J. Sullivan, elected January term expired
February .
Thomas F’.. Greaney, elected January term expired February .
Joseph A. Skinner, elected January term expired February .
Maurice Lynch, elected January deceased January .
Arthur M. French, elected February term expired February .
| Hugh McLean, elected January term expired
February .
Michael J. Doyle, elected January term expired
February .
Thomas J. Carmody, elected January .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD |
Jesse E. Sheldon, elected January .
Thomas J. Lynch, elected January .

Officers of the Holyoke Water Works.
Moses Stevens, Superintendent, appointed February  ,

 term expired April resigned.

Daniel Heywood, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October sucded by E. M. Bolton.

E. M. Bolton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned.

E. P. Clark, Registrar, appointed July resigned

January .

J. Sullivan, Registrar, appointed January ;

resigned January ,
A. E. Pickup, Registrar, appointed February .

John D. Hardy, Superintendent, appointed May |
term expired April |
John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent, appointed May  |

 resigned April !
Patrick Gear, Superintendent, appointed May |
K. M. Bolton, Inspector, appointed July service

terminated March |
James F. Cleary, Inspector, appointed March .
Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector, appointed March |
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, appointed October .
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector, appointed October .
Daniel F. Cray, Inspector, appointed October |

'
I
|

FIFTIETH ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
Holyoke School itt

To the Mayor, the Aldermen and the Citizens of Holyoke:

At meeting of the School Committee held on January

  this complete report was presented.

At meeting held on February it was accepted
and ordered printed. It is divided into nine parts, as
follows:

PART I. Organization of School Committee, district committees, standing committees; time of meetings,
various office hours and school calendars.

PART II. Report of Committee on Annual Report from
School Committee to City Government.

PART III. Report of Superintendent of Schools to School

Committee.

PART IV Reports of Principals and Supervisors to the Superintendent.

PART V. Statistical Report of the Superintendent covering
matters of attendance, accounts, distribution of
pupils, finance, etc.

PART VI. Report of Attendance Officers.

PART VII. Organization and roster of the school system on
January giving salaries paid, grades
taught and various attendance figures.

PART VIII. List of books adopted for use in day schools and
in evening schools.

PART IX. Graduating classes of  .

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
In the public school system of Holyoke there are kindergartens, special classes, elementary grades, high school, a
vocational school and evening schools. Boys and girls
from four or five years of age to about eighteen years of
age form almost the entire population of these various
branches of the school system.
The business of the schools is to educate these boys and
girls with particular consideration for each boy and each
girl. The duty of the schools is to draw out and systematically develop their natural powers, and, by instruction,
training and discipline, to render them able and disposed to |
become efficient members of society and citizens of character
and intelligence. |
The reader may ask what is done here; by whom, how and
when it- is done; how much it costs; whether it is done with |
economy, efficiency, and success. The answers are in the various
parts of this report.
|
: |
|
|
. !
I
| |
|
i
|
|
J

PART I.
The organization of the School Committee of Holyoke
for the year was as follows:
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS.
At Large TERENCE O'DONNELL.
Ward  —JOHN F. KENNEDY.
Ward  —WILFRED G. DEROIN.
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH.
Ward  —MAURICE G. DONAHUE.
Ward  —JOHN J. O’CONNOR.
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH.
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS.
HON. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.
TERENCE O’DONNELL, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
The organization of the School Committee of Holvoke
for the year is as follows:
Term Expires
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, January  
At Large JOSEPH B. WEIS, January  
Ward  —JOHN F. KENNEDY, January  
Ward  —DR. WILFRED G. DEROIN, January  
Ward  —-AUGUST H. BAUSH, January  
Ward  —MAURICE G. DONAHUE, January  
Ward  —JOHN J. O’CONNOR, January  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH, January  
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS, January  
HON. JOHN H. WOODS, Mayor.
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
' The District Committees for are as follows:
HIGH SCHOOL:
MESSRS. O’CONNOR, BAUSH, WELLS.
FIRST DISTRICT:
MESSRS. DONAHUE, O’CONNOR, POTTS.

  REPORT OF THE PuBLIC SCHOOLS
SECOND DISTRICT:
MESSRS. LYNCH, BAUSH, DEROIN.
THIRD DISTRICT:
MESSRS. KENNEDY, WELLS, WEIS.
The Standing Committees for are as follows:
RULES, TEXT BOOKS AND COURSES OF STUDY:
MESSRS. KENNEDY, BAUSH, O’CONNOR.
SALARIES AND FINANCE:
MESSRS. DONAHUE, WELLS, WEIS.
PRINTING AND SUPPLIES: :
MESSRS. BAUSH, O’CONNOR, LYNCH.
SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS: '
MESSRS. WEIS, LYNCH, POTTS.
EVENING SCHOOLS AND ATTENDANCE:
MESSRS. WELLS, DONAHUE, KENNEDY.
BUILDINGS, JANITORS AND SOCIAL CENTERS:
MESSRS. O’CONNOR, DEROIN, POTTS.
The organization of the Board of Trustees for Vocational Edueation for  as follows:
Term Expires
FREDERICK S. WEBBER, Sycamore, January  
JOHN J. O’CONNOR, Clinton Avenue, January  
EDWIN D. WELLS, Nonotuck, January  
WILLIS M. FLEMING, Maple, January  
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chestnut, January  
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Brown Avenue, January  
MRS. MARGARET A. CARLON, Dwight, January  
TERENCE O’DONNELL, North Bridge, January  
DENNIS F. LYNCH, Chestnut, January  
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary.
The sub-committees of this Board for are as follows.
RULES, SALARIES AND FINANCE:
MESSRS. O'DONNELL, WEBBER, LYNCH.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS III
SUPPLIES:

MESSRS. POTTS, O’CONNOR, BAUSH.
TEACHERS, COURSE OF STUDY AND TEXT BOOKS:
MESSRS. WELLS, FLEMING, MRS. CARLON.

The Advisory Committees to the Board are as follows:
METAL TRADES:
WILLIS D. BALLARD, Pearl. .
FREDERICK W. KOEGEL, Brown Avenue.
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB, Fairfield Avenue.
BUILDING TRADES:
: JOSEPH F. RANGER, Nonotuck.
ISRAEL DUCHARME, Papineau.
WILLIAM B. O’NEILL, Congress Avenue.
PRINTING:
MICHAEL J. DOYLE, Elm.
ANDREW J. HUNTER, School.
JOSEPH LUSSIER, Nonotuck. .
PAPER-MAKING.
SIDNEY E. WHITING, Oak.
HENRY P. CARRUTH, North Pleasant.
DAVID F. SULLIVAN, Maple.
ELECTRICAL WORK: .
GEORGE E. JOHNSON, Allyn.
ARTHUR J. NEWELL, Washington Avenue.
GEORGE M. PRENTICE, JR., Essex.
TEXTILE WORK:
FRED A. McLANE, North Pleasant.
WALTER H. ARMSTRONG, Pleasant.
EUGENE R. ALDERMAN, Pearl...
HOME-MAKING:
MISS MARY REARDON, Linden.
MRS. CAROLINE MOQUIN, Pine.
MRS. ALMA SCHIRCH, Walnut.

|
are REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
The meetings and office hours are as follows:
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
A regular public committee meeting is held on the first
Monday evening of every month at o’clock.
This is the only public meeting held during the month.
The annual meeting for organization is held on the first
Tuesday evening in January at o’clock.
A meeting of all sub-committees is held on the last
Monday evening of every month at o’clock.
A meeting of the sub-committee on supplies is held on or |
about the  th of every month at o’clock in the evening. :
BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
A regular meeting is held on the second Monday evening ,
of every month at o’clock.
, SUPERINTENDENT.
In office on school days from a. m. to m. and
from p. m. to p. m. .
In office on Saturday mornings and Tuesday evenings
by appointment. |
SECRETARY TO SUPERINTENDENT.
The office hours are: a. m. to m. and p. m.
to p. m. on all school days. On Saturdays and during
vacations: a. m. to m.
OFFICE.
The office  open from a. m. to p. m. on all school
days, and from a. m. to m. on Saturdays and during
vacations. |
The office  closed on all legal holidays.
ATTENDANCE OFFICERS.
The attendance officers are in the office on all school
days from p. m. to p. m. and on Monday and Wednesday
evenings, except during vacations, from p. m. to’  p. m.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

The hours on Saturdays and during vacations are from
  a.m. to m.

MINORS’ CERTIFICATES.

The hours for issuing employment or educational certificates to minors are from  a. m. to p. m. and from  
p.m. to p. m. on all school days; from p. m. to p. m. 
on Monday and Wednesday evenings except during vacations; and from a. m. to m. on Saturdays and during
vacations.

SCHOOLHOUSE AGENT.

The schoolhouse agent is in the office from a. m.
to a. m. and from p. m. to p. m. on all school days.

The hours on Saturdays and during vacations are from
  a.m. to m.

The school calendar for is as follows:
DAY SCHOOL TERMS.

Winter term began January .

Winter term ends February .

Spring term begins March .

Spring term ends April .

Summer term begins May .

Summer term ends June .

Fall term begins September .

Fall term ends December .

Winter term begins January .

EVENING SCHOOL TERMS.
High School.

Term of began September ends
March .

Term of begins September ends
March |

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Vocational School.
Term of began September ends
March .
Term of begins September ends
Mareh .
Elementary Schools.
Term of began October ends February .
Term of begins October ends February .
VACATIONS.
February to March inclusive.
April to May inclusive. |
June to September inclusive. |
December to January inelusive. |
SCHOOL HOLIDAYS.
Every Saturday, New Year’s Day, Washington’s Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of
July, Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day
with the day following, Christmas Day, and Teachers’ Con- |
vention Days. |
LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
Washington’s Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanks- ,
giving Day, Christmas Day. |
|
|
|
|

PART II.

Report of the School Committee
Lo His Honor the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

The School Committee respectfully submits this annual
report for the year  The report of the undersigned
sub-committee must necessarily be brief and general. The
other parts of this volume present the details.

As would naturally be expected, we have encountered
many important problems, to which we have given earnest
consideration and towards the solution of which we have
made marked progress. For example, the organization of
the Holyoke Vocational School, the introduction of the
Palmer system of writing, complete revision of the rules
of this department, the establishing of sewing classes in the
upper grades, and the opening of other new courses are some
of the more important things done.

HOLYOKE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.

The School Committee, recognizing the need of industrial training, recently organized the Holyoke Vocational
School. As the school is still young, many citizens are not

 yet familiar with its aims. The school is established as an
all-day industrial school and will soon be state-aided. It
offers boys an opportunity to continue their school work
along practical lines and provides source from which our
skilled industries may draw workers educated in the theories, principles, and practice of different trades. Its work
is to prevent the boy from wasting his youth in unprofitable
employment and to train and start him on the road to a
skilled trade, at the same time assisting him in English,

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
mathematics, civics and allied subjects. Under the ordinance
adopted by the Board of Aldermen the control and management of this school is vested in Board of Trustees appointed by the School Committee.
PALMER WRITING.

The need of uniform system of handwriting that would
meet the requirements of our city, where many of the
pupils are obliged to enter the army of wage earners at an |
early age, led us to adopt the Palmer system of writing.
The results obtained during the past year show that this
adoption was well advised. |

SEWING.

The introduction of sewing in the three upper grades
durmg the past year was step in the right direction. If
the pubhe schools are to do this work effectively, the cooperation of the parent is necessary. The teaching of sewing furnishes an opportunity for cultivating habits of neatness and gives the pupil practical instruction in useful art.

NEW GYMNASIUM.

, The building of the new High School Gymnasium should
be of great value to the boys and girls of that school, and of
the elementary schools as well. With the present director,
the new building, and the consequent development of physical education, Holyoke should be well to the front in
caring for the health and physical interests of her school
population.

TEACHERS’ SALARIES.

The School Committee voted to grant the request of the
teachers for an inerease in salary beginning December Ist,
 This  accordance with the policy of the Board to
adjust all salaries in this department on seale that will
compare favorably with cities like Holyoke. ,

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
RECOMMENDATIONS.

Some of our buildings are faulty im sanitation, ventilation and lighting. The boys’ sanitaries at the Nonotuck
Street building should be replaced by more modern equipment. The conditions existing at the Hamilton Street
School should be corrected at onee. The sanitaries should
be replaced, and the gloom of the corridors removed by
placing glass in the upper half of the doors. The better
lighting of our school buildings demands immediate attention, as the time has come when these buildings are being
used for gatherings of every nature. It should be the policy
of our city to encourage the wider use of our school halls
for everything of an edueational nature. We should look
after the welfare and the morals of the children even out of
school hours. We should endeavor to furnish places of
recreation, not only for the child but for the parent. Free
coneerts, motion pictures, lectures, reading rooms or a
braneh of the Public Library could be provided. By so
doing the city would be receiving the full return for the
thousands of dollars invested in its educational plant, which
is now paying but half dividends.

, We repeat our recommendation of last year, that the
medical inspection department of the publ schools be reorganized. Better results can be obtained by closer supervision. The appointment of two physicians who would
visit all the schools more frequently would give this result.

The overerowded condition at the Lawrence and Elm
Street Schools demands immediate attention. If the city’s
finances will permit the building of the Central Grammar
School, this should be done at onee. Temporary relief can
be had however by adding another story to the one-story
part of the Elm Street building. This would provide for
one hundred children and also give us the necessary room
to organize other classes for backward children, problem
that demands the immediate attention of this Board.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOULS
In report of this character we will but state the totals
involved in finaneing our department for the year. The
appropriations and receipts were  and the expenditures were leaving balance unexpended
of The detailed expenditures will be found in another part of this report.
JOHN J. O'CONNOR,
: DENNIS F. LYNCH,
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS,
Committee on Annual Report.
|
|

PART III.
Report of the Superintendent
To the School Committee of Holyoke:

Your Superintendent, in accordance with the rules of
this department, submits herewith report of the public
schools of Holyoke for the year  This is his second
annual report, and the fiftieth volume in series of printed
reports, the first:of which was submitted to the School Committee of Holyoke in the year  .

I. INTRODUCTION. |

In this report it is planned to give general survey of
the local public school system. Topics claiming discussion .
are those relating to finances, attendance, teaching, courses
of study and the fundamentals. And there are other topics.
A report of modern school system must include consideration of special subjects, vocational education, physical education, classes for exceptional children, matters of organization, school extension, evening schools and accommodations.
Attention must be focused on whatever makes for efficiency
and economy in our schools from the business as well as
from the educational viewpoint. Hence the aim of this
report is to give general inventory and detailed statement of the features and the needs of the Holyoke public

| schools.
II. FINANCES.

For the year beginning December Ist,  and ending
November  th,  this department received, by regular
appropriation and from all other sources, the sum of The amount expended was leaving on

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
December Ist,  balance of The expenditures
of this department for the fiseal year amounted to
. It would appear that it cost  more
to run the schools in than it cost in  This is not
the fact of the matter, for the following reason: The Board
of Public Works was responsible for salaries and supplies
for school janitors up to May Ist,  on which date this
department became responsible for the same. In the fiscal
year of  therefore, our account for salaries and supplies
for school janitors ran for seven months. In the fiscal year
of this account ran for twelve months. The difference,
which is merely matter of bookkeeping for the city government, amounts to If this sum is subtracted from
the apparent inerease of the actual increase in
running expenses of over is the sum of .
This actual imerease is  less than the increase in
running expenses of over  (See page of Report
of  .)

In view of the natural growth of the schools, the engaging of seven additional teachers at cost of about  year, the installing of new school reeord system
eosting about the opening of new evening school
courses at cost of the introduction of Palmer writIng at an expense of about the placing of paper
towels in all schools at cost of about the automatie mereases and special increases in salary which come
each year, costing in about —in view of all
these things which make for increased school efficiency the
extra  was money well spent.

This department estimates that the total sum of  will be needed for the school year  In this
estimate are meluded probable receipts of  from
dog taxes, tuition and other sources. Therefore the appropriation actually requested from the city government is
$ This is  in excess of the sum expended
m  The reasons for requesting this inerease in the
school appropriation for are as follows: normal

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
two per cent growth in the school population is expected.
There are many salary increases which go into effect this
year—special increases for grade teachers amounting to
about for principals, about for special
teachers, about for extra service and supplies m
the department of attendance on account of new employment laws, about for special increase to janitors,
about Additionally there are the regular automatic inereases amounting in to about and
it will cost about  to provide for teaching and janitor service in the new gymnasium and technical building to
be opened in September,  The new furmiture in the
Highland School cost nearly supplies for the proposed extension of manual training courses will cost over
$ new text books for the grades will cost about
$ and extra high school books about These
approximate sums show in general way why the estimated
expenditures of may exd the actual expenditures ‘of
  by .

For an accurate and detailed financial statement as to
receipts, expenditures and estimates, see the tables in Part
V. of this volume.

HI. SPECIAL FINANCIAL SHEET.

Facing page in this volume is special financial sheet
showing in detail the cost of running the schools from July
Ist,  to June  th,  The items recorded cover all
expenditures made in support of schools. Since outlay is
not included in support, the cost of new buildings, additions,
special improvements and sites does not show on the financial sheet. In making comparison with other tables it should
be borne in mind that this sheet is for the past school year,
July Ist,  to June  th,  as preseribed by the State
Board of Education, while the other financial tables are for
the past fiscal year of the city, December Ist,  to November  th,  .

i
|
  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
IV. SALARY ADJUSTMENTS.
In December,  the Committee began the school work
of putting on fair and reasonable basis the salaries of all
those in the service of the department. salary schedule
for the day High School and all the evening schools covering
administration, supervision and teaching was put into effect.
In December,  the salaries of grade teachers, kindergartners, principals in day schools, supervisors and special
teachers, attendance officers and janitors and matrons were
satisfactorily adjusted. As compensation goes in school
work the present complete salary schedule  very good, and
the salaries compare most favorably with those paid in cities |
like Holyoke. |
V. ATTENDANCE.
The following tables show the present condition of the |
various schools so far as attendance is concerned:
Table I. Enrolment.
Dec.  Dec.  Dec.  Increase Increase
 ver over  
High School.................  
Vocational School ....  
Grades .......................  
Kindergartens .......... Decrease Decrease  
Total ....... .. 
Table II. Number Belonging.
Dec.  Dec.  Dec.  Increase Incresse
  over over  
High School.................  
Vocational School ....  
Grades........... .....  
Kindergartens ........... Decrease Decrease  
Total 

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Table III. Average Attendance.
Peto Pr un told oven toll  st) over  
High Schoul.................  
Vocational School ....  
Grades ........................  
Kindergartens ...........  Decrease  
Total ....... . 
A study of these three tables shows that the number of enrolled pupils in the various schools in was greater
than in  and that the number in was greater
than in  The membership of the schools was greater
in than in and greater in than in  .
The average attendance was greater in than in  ,
and greater in than in  Since Table I. may
include pupils who were enrolled and later left school, and
since Table III. may include many actual members who are
absent on account of illness or other good reason, it would
seem fair to take Table II. as basis for figuring. )

The increase in membership for over was
practically one and two-fifths per cent; and that of  
over was practically two and one-fifth per cent. These
various tables and figures, together with statistics of years
previous to  show slow, sure and steady, but not notable growth in the publie school population of the city.

| VI. ACCOMMODATIONS.

On the whole the school accommodations in this city
are satisfactory, though not ideal. There is considerable
congestion in the large central] school district which, in the
near future, may develop into serious overcrowding. A
small addition to the Elm Street School should be planned
at once. There is notable increase in the school population in the Highland district, but the extra rooms in the two
schools in that district minimize any danger of congestion.

The proposed removal of the Vocational School and the

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
drafting work to rooms in the front part of the High School
Gymnasium will give more space in the High School for the
regular work of that institution. The day is not far distant,
however, when the present high school building will be distinctly overcrowded.

The Central Grammar School is still dream of the
future. It would be wise policy to take steps toward making this dream come true. The city is engaged in big public
building projects at present. When they are completed in
June,  the matter of new school in the central district
of the city should be considered. Into this consideration }
should enter the proposition to sell the land and building
now termed the Lawrence School.

VII. NEW OFFICES.

Related to the question of school accommodations discussed above is the proposed removal of the administration :
offices of this department to the fourth floor of the City Hall
Annex. It is planned to provide large and properly furnished meeting room for the School Committee, private
office, Waiting room, spacious general office together with
offices for the supervisors, the supply clerk, the attendance
officers and the schoolhouse agent. The plans include an
assembly room and lbrary for the teachers of the city.
These quarters should be ready for oecupaney next July.

VII. KINDERGARTENS.

The kindergarten is neither fad nor an experiment.
It  here to stay. It is link between the home and the
school, and thus fills an important place in school system.
It puts the little ones in right attitude towards school and
towards one another. The teacher becomes their friend; the
gifts, the games and the stories become part of their lives;
and all things about them take on new meaning. The kindergarten is social factor. The kindergartners are social
workers. In quiet way, many of them have visited and

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
do regularly visit the homes of the children in their care,
bringing sympathy and assistance to needy ones, bringing
kindness and advice to those, who, being strangers in our
country, find it hard in the beginning to understand us and
our customs. As the teachers visit the homes, so the mothers
have meetings in many of the kindergartens. Programs
that bring to the parents great deal of instruction as well
as entertainment are arranged by the principals. The
writer recalls meeting where local physician addressed
the mothers of the district on the patent medicine evil. He
warned the parents against the dangerous and expensive
practice of buying ‘‘cure-alls’’, explained the composition
of some of them, and took occasion to give general and
helpful talk on diseases of children, first aid and the value
of play, fresh air and sunshine. There was music; and refreshments were served by the teachers. This was meeting
typical of many held in the various schools. It brought the
home to the school and the school to the home, to the advantage of both. Such meetings are not and should not be
confined merely to kindergarten work.

At present the kindergartens of the city are very much
interested in the Montessori Method, and are eagerly looking forward to the convention of the International Kindergarten Union which is to be held in Springfield next April.
Regarding the former it seems wise policy to study the new
system through tests being made in other cities before experimenting with it here.

On the principle that the change from the kindergarten
to the first grade is almost as abrupt for the child as is the
change from the home to the kindergarten, your Superintendent assigned teacher trained in kindergarten work and
familiar with primary work to assist in large first grade
in the Highland School. The duty of this teacher was threefold: To assist in room of fifty pupils; to continue the
atmosphere of the kindergarten among those children who
were in the kindergarten the previous vear; and to give the )
children who eame directly from the home some of the in  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
fluences of the kindergarten. year’s trial proved the
experiment distinet success from the educational viewpoint. It was matter of economy because the assistant
was needed in any case. The same work is now under way
in the large first grade in the Kirtland School, and with
good success. By this plan or better one—and several are ;
being considered—the path leading from the home to the
primary grades either directly or by way of the kindergarten may be made smoother, and there may be better understanding between primary teachers and kindergartners.
IX. ELEMENTARY DAY SCHOOLS.

This discussion of the large part of the school system
termed ‘‘the nine grades’’ will prod along two main lines |
—the teaching and the subjects taught. The question of |
special teachers and classes for exceptional children is discussed under another heading on page  Subjects relating to special departments like Manual Training and Household Arts are also considered elsewhere in these columns
and are specially reported by the respective supervisors in
Part IV. of this volume.

The teaching in the local schools is, on the whole, very
efficient. In all school systems there are teachers who languidly and like machines go through the daily routine. These
teachers are no more to blame for this condition than are
the supervising agents who permit it, and consequently they
alone should not be condemned. In the schools there are
other teachers who earry daily to the class-room something !
new, attractive and interesting; who are prepared for the
work of the day; who plan ahead; who are alert and energetic; Who feel the responsibility of their calling; and who
realize What they are expected to do for the children in their
eare, and do it. Teachers of this latter class have real,
teaching efficiency. The statement that most of the teachers
in our schools are thus efficient  based on results obtained,
on reports of prmeipals and on necessarily limited observa. REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
tion by the Superintendent. No ordinary teaching force
eould get the good results that have been obtained in the
new language work and in Palmer writing. Confidential
reports by principals, based on experience, long observation
and close daily contact are as good as any standard by which
to judge teaching efficiency—and such reports are satisfactory. Observation by the Superintendent, necessarily limited on account of the number of rooms to be visited, not to
mention various demands upon his time, serves to confirm
and strengthen his first characterization of the Holyoke
teaching staff as ‘‘a generally faithful and efficient body of
teachers’’. (Report of  page  .)

Sinee this body is the most important element in the
schools, every effort should be made to inerease its efficiency. 
At present all teachers entering the service must have definite qualifications. Teachers for the grades, for example,
must be graduates of recognized high school and recognized normal school. Additionally they must give evidence
of at least one year’s successful experience as teacher in
charge of school. This  matter of rule, as well as a
requirement of the Superintendent. Further, teachers may
be required to pass promotion examinations at any time.
Your Superintendent selects teachers according to the following plan:

(a) The candidate’s high school and college or normal
school records are considered: (b) Teaching reeord and

. experience are considered: (ec) statement concerning the
applicant is received from the employing superintendent:
(d) Character, health and temperament are estimated: (e)
A personal interview  requested; and personal visit of
investigation is made by the Superintendent to classes
taught by the candidate.

By following this scheme of selection, your Superintendent has added to the efficiency of the teaching force in no
small measure. It is planned to add to these five requirements by (a) making the visit of investigation more extended and by (b) requiring all candidates to write an essay  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
examination which would further test their knowledge of
subjects, pupils, teaching methods and general educational
psychology. Teachers now in the service must avoid one
great enemy of efficiency, namely stagnation, or getting in
arut. The way out of this is the summer-vacation school,
the lecture course, active work im teachers’ associations,
getting new interests, reading and study along special lines,
- or other activities that will make for mental growth and
break up routine.
Since efficlency in teaching is of little worth without a
proper course of study, this discussion should embrace the
subjects taught. The fundamentals only will be discussed
here. They are the ‘‘Three Rs’’, which are supposed to be
negleeted in the publie schools. They are reading, language
and grammar, spelling, penmanship and arithmetiec—or in }
three words, English, writing, arithmetic. Courses in jhistory and eivies, nature study and the various special subjects
are ready for trial. new course in geography is being
tried in the Joseph Metealf School. This is all in aeccordance with the plans outlined on pages and of the
Report of  plans which could not be earried out for
these reasons: (a) The work of revising all the courses of |
study is tremendous task in itself: (b) It is impossible
to have the teachers work effectively on several different
new courses: (c) The expense of buymg the necessary text
books for many new courses cannot be met out of the appropriation of any one year. The point of attack, therefore, in
revising the courses, was the fundamentals. new language
course, including spoken and written English, grammar, errors of sph, derivation, dictation, use of dictionary, and
spelling was made effective. The course is uniform in all the
schools. The only text books used by the pupils are the Al- |
dine book for grades three and four and the Metcalf and
Rafter series for grades five to nine. The ‘‘Palmer Method |
of Writing’’ was introduced in all the schools, the High |
School included. If the good work that is being done in |
pemuanship by teachers and pupils contmues, the problem |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
of getting the children to write fluently and legibly should
be solved. Revised courses in reading and arithmetic will
be in effect by the end of this school year.

The Superintendent, principals and teachers by no
means claim to have solution of the country-wide problem
of getting better work in the ‘‘Three Rs’’. While they
realize that work in the fundamentals is often very disappointing, they do not admit that the ‘‘Three Rs’’ were better
taught years ago than at the present time. Their effort,
then, is to Improve present conditions rather than to work
on the assumption, certainly false one, that they should
raise present-day standards English, writing and arithmetic to the standards of days long gone by.

X. EIGHT GRADES OR NINE ?

Your Superintendent recommends the appointing of a
commission of seven or nine to investigate in most thorough manner the question as to the number of grades and
the plan of promotion that should obtain in the elementary
day schools. Holyoke has nine grades and yearly promotions. In this respect most other cities differ from Holyoke.
Some school systems have the nine grades, half-yearly promotion plan as in Springfield; some have the eight grade,
yearly promotion plan as in Boston; and others have eight
grades with half-yearly promotions as in Rochester. Many
educators hold (and the older educational systems in Europe
are good witnesses) that pupils should finish their elementary school work at the age of twelve or at the end of grade
six; they state that the next six years should be spent in
high school, three years in junior high school where departinental teaching begins, and three years in senior
high school. This is the so-called six-and-six plan recently
recommended to the School Board of Philadelphia. Holyoke
seems out of step with modern educational movement so far
as grading pupils is coneerned. We should find out at onee
where we stand.

  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
XI. THE HIGH SCHOOL.

A complete report of the High School written by Principal Conant was published in the Report of  pages  It was the most detailed report of the High School that
has been made to date, and need not be repeated this year.
Principal Conant has presented general report which  s
published in Part V. of this volume. The work of the High |
School pupils in special subjects is outlined by the various
supervisors in their reports, which also appear in Part V.

Your Superintendent is glad to report that the High
School is in excellent condition. Recent changes in the
teaching force, additions to the courses of study, the introduction of new subjects, better text books and improved
methods of instruction have borne good fruit. In the High
School proper, the foundations of Technical High School

) have been laid. The progress of the commercial department has been by leaps and bounds. Thus in our composite
high school, the advantages of specialized schools are being
realized by developing the technical and commercial departments to degree of efficiency very nearly approaching

| that obtained in high schools distinctly specialized. This
plan should meet the situation until the rather distant time
when Holyoke can build Technical High School and High
School of Commerce.

A part time industrial course, somewhat similar to the
-o-operative industrial course operated in the Fitchburg
High School, was introduced last September as department
of the High School. It made an excellent beginning and
proved that it has place in the educational activities of
Holyoke. It brought help and opportunity to group of
boys whoin the regular high school courses neither reach nor
benefit. The course will not run itself however. The manufacturers of the city must help, and thus far they have
given encouragement and assistance. The department heads
in the [igh School must arrange programs so that the part
time boys during their week in school may not be expected

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
to do two weeks’ work in one. It is essential that these boys
should have special classes in the regular high school subjects during their school week. They should not be made
to feel that during their shop week they are losing in school
work. The department heads must attend to this or special
teachers must be engaged. Upon the adjustment of this
particular matter the continued success of the part time
industrial course seems to depend.

The course in domestic science is still termed the cooking department, and is part of the regular work in the
High -School, as the English department. This should be
special work because it requires special supervision. There
seems to be splendid opportunity for some one to make
this work in domestic science most practical by uniting with
it the serving of school lunches. There is lunch counter
in the basement with well equipped kitchen. This is run
independently of the domestic science department. There
is no reason why they should not be run together. The
combination would eliminate much waste in time and materials and would have great practical value.

The evening lecture course conducted during the winter
by the English department was unusually successful this
year. The department was especially fortunate in its choice
of lectures and splendid course was the result. These
lectures have become so much part of the literary activities
of the city and are so largely attended that it may be news
to many people to learn that the course is planned and

financed by the English department of the High School.

The regular session of the High School should be lengthened by at least one-half hour, making five and one-half
hour day exclusive of the special afternoon session. Classes

| could begin at and close at  and one hour period
plan should be made effective. The hour periods would
greatly benefit laboratory work as well as classes in drawing,
household arts and science and other special subjects. Moreover, it would give the teachers in the regular courses an
opportunity to teach the pupils how to study—that is, to

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
adopt the study plan in the portion of the hour not used for
regular recitations. Of course the aim is not to lessen home
study but rather to eneourage it by giving it direction. To
this end it is not too much to say that six hour day would
be beneficial to the High School.
The new gymnasium which will be ready for occupancy
m September will open new era in the work of physical
education in the High School and perhaps in the whole city.
Your Supermtendent plans to confer with the authorities at the High School in the near future relative to plan
of home-visiting by the teachers. The object is to decrease
the mortality, bring home and school closer together, and
do more in the way of vocational guidance.
XII. EVENING SCHOOLS. |
Four elementary schools, an evening high school and an |
evening vocational school offering household arts and indus- :
trial courses constitute the evening school system of Hol- |
voke. The attendance statisties of these schools, as tabulated in Part V. of this volume, show how the people of the
city appreciate the opportunities of self-improvement held .
out to them. The child-worker, the illiterate minor, the .
immigrant, the untutored adult, the office clerk and men of
various trades find provision for their needs. The supervision and teaching in the elementary evening schools is ,
very efficient. Three of the principals are grammar masters and the fourth is vice-prineipal of the High Sehool.
Over nmety per cent of the teachers are graduates of normal
schools and about thirty-five per cent of them are regular
day school teachers.
Your Superintendent conferred with the principals re. cently on the matter of text books used in the elementary
evening schools. It was found that very few books written
particularly for evening school use were at hand. Most of
the books then in use were those disearded by the day
schools. list of books written especially for evening work

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
was drawn up and adopted by the School Committee. Upon
order such books were furnished to the schools at once.

A more definite and uniform method of grading will be
suggested to the principals for the school year beginning
next October. Pupils upon entering school should be assigned to one of three divisions as follows: Division made
up of English speaking pupils desiring regular work; Division II including pupils aiming to learn to speak the English
language; Division III made up of pupils requesting special
work, as sewing or dressmaking. Division should consist
of five groups, namely, the ungraded, the beginners, the intermediates, the Juniors and the seniors. These names are
taken arbitrarily to show the position of the pupils im school.
Division II should inelude five groups, namely, beginners’  
class and an advanced class of pupils educated in their own
language; similar classes of pupils uneducated in their native language, and fifth group of pupils unclassified as to
previous training. Pupils should be taken from Division II and graded in Division as soon as possible. Under
Division III classes in sewing and dressmaking were opened
in three of the elementary evening schools in September, —
 .

A most comprehensive and complete report of the Evening High School and the Evening Vocational School by
Principal Garvey may be found in Part IV. of this volume.

 These two schools are doing splendid service for the community. The Evening Vocational School, which is stateaided, has already received from the state an aid fund of
$ and will probably receive the sum of  for
the year ending November .

XIII. SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS.

The detailed reports of the supervisors of mannal training, household arts, drawing, writing, music and physical
education are published in Part IV. of this volume. In this
part is also report of the Vocational School prepared by
é

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOULS |
Mr. William H. Whitney, whose duties embrace the supervising of manual training and the directing of vocational
education in the city. more complete report on vocational
education will be issued later by the newly organized Board
of Trustees for Vocational Education. The report is published in this volume because the work was begun by the
School Committee.

The work in manual training, which was not satisfactory in  is to be completely revised, intensified, extended and made practical during the year  It is
planned to have manual training from the kindergarten
through the high school. course in elementary hand work
for all the pupils of the first six grades is ready for intro“duction. The trial classes in this work, under the direction
of Miss Helen Burke, have been most successful. Manual
training in grades seven, eight and nine is to be put on the
practical arts basis. At present the boys receive their
manual training in ‘‘wood-working shops’’ so-called. Some
printing and work in metal will be introduced next Septem| ber. In the High School the work includes shop drawing,
bench work in wood, wood-working, cabinet-making, metalworking, and machine shop practice. Art metal work, pattern-making and probably printing should be introduced.
It is important that, so far as possible, the manual training
work and drawing work (both being manual arts) should
be made to correlate. Much attention  being given to the
development of manual training and before next June a
great deal will be accomplished.

The work in sewing, drawing, music and writing has
been uniformly good. These departments have many features Which cannot be dwelt upon in report of this kind,
for example, the intensely practical work in all sewing
classes from grade seven through the High School, Monday
afternoon teachers’ drawing classes, the study of the old
fashioned home and heart songs in the work in music. WritIng was made special department in order to get good
results. The work is based on the ‘‘Palmer Method”’ and is

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
“
supervised. Your Superintendent has only words of praise
for the splendid way in which the teachers have labored in
the interests of good writing, and for the good results obtained.

A great task before the Committee is the organization
of Department of Health and Physical Education on a
broad basis. On pages and of the Report of this
matter was discussed. The opening of the new gymnasium
is not far away, and the work must be begun. Nothing but
the broadest organization should be considered. The Board
of Health, the Playground Commission, and the School Committee should enter upon working agreement. Medical
inspection should be made more efficient, and there should
be follow-up work by school nurses. Physical education
should embrace the various physical training exercises, military drill and athletics. There should be correlation with playground work. In developing this department Holvoke
has her opportunity for leadership.

XIV. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.

The Holyoke Vocational School was equipped and
established last September. It is most pronounced suc ss, and the School Committee has received the heartiest
commendation for taking the initiative in this matter. As
a discussion of the school belongs in report of the Board
of Trustees for Vocational Education, which report will be
published next June, it seems only necessary to record the
fact of establishment in these columns. It was deemed
proper, however, to publish in Part IV. of this volume the
report of the director in charge of the school.

XV. SPECIAL CLASSES.

This department is trying to help school children who
are not normal. The average normal pupil generally re-eelves proper educational treatment so far as the school

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

system can furnish it. This is not true of the children who
vary from the normal. Children not normal in the sense
that they are anaemic, tubereular, troubled with sight or
hearing oy other physical defects, do not yet receive the
proper treatment. Such children have special physical
needs which if given proper attention would help them in
body and in mind.

Children not normal from the mental side, in that they
advance most rapidly in school or are backward or are mentally defective, still have positive claims on us for special attention as to their mental and physical needs. The
children of non-English speaking foreigners must have
special help. visit to the Park Street School would prove
this.

The special classes at West Street School and William
Whiting School are doing splendid work. There is sort
of special class at the Elm Street School but lack of room
and equipment prevents its proper development. The three
teachers in charge of special classes are very capable and
are giving real service to the schools and the community.

XVI. SCHOOL EXTENSION.

A course of monthly lectures in two of the elementary
evening schools was attended and appreciated in degree
far beyond expectations. These lectures were given in
English, French, Hebrew, German and Polish. Acknowledgments are made to Mr. Bernard T. Smyth of the North American Immigrants League and to the principals for the success
attending these lectures. The school halls have been widely
used for lectures, concerts, whists, mothers’ meetings and
the like. The four parent-teacher associations have been
especially active and Central Couneil has been formed.
The question of using the school houses for evening social
and reereational centers under the direction of paid workers
has not been considered by the Committee.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
XVII. LECTURES TO TEACHERS.

A course of monthly lectures for the teachers of the
city opened in September. Mr. Palmer, originator of the
Palmer system of writing, gave the first lecture. In October Professor Kohl, head of the department of education at
Mount Holyoke College, addressed the teachers on the relation of hygiene to schools and teachers. Mr. MacDuffie of
Springfield, an authority on the subject of teachers’ pensions, Miss Mabel Bragg of New York, one of the leading
exponents of story-telling in the educational world, and Dr.
George Dawson, noted educational psychologist, have discussed their special work for the benefit of the teachers.
Other lecturers are engaged for the remaining months of
this school year. From every viewpoint the lectures thus
far have been very successful.

XVIII. OTHER ACTIVITIES.

Many things in school report must be mentioned and
passed, not because they are unimportant, but because they
are well known or in process of adoption or soon to be considered. Some of these activities are as follows: Aid-fund
for school children; plans for pre-vocational work; open
air schools; attendance officers and enforcement of new child
labor laws; compulsory continuation schools; the problem
of retardation (nineteen per cent of our pupils in the elementary schools are retarded). These and other matters
constantly engage our attention, but no lengthy report is to
be made concerning them at this time.

XTX. NEW RULES AND REGULATIONS.

Early in the year special committee of five was appointed and assigned the difficult task of writing new set
of rules and regulations for this department. This committee, with the Superintendent, made an exhaustive study of
the rules governing school boards in other eities. Present  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
day systems of school administration and the particular

needs of Holyoke were investigated. Two basic principles

stood out strongly in the charters and rules governing school

boards in those cities where the greatest education progress 

has been made. The first principle is that the functions of

school administration and the functions of city administration are separate; and the best school committee is nonpartisan board of five or seven elected at large, with independent power, responsible directly to the voters and receiving not whatever appropriation the city government

wishes to provide, but yearly minimum appropriation
based on certain sum of money per pupil enrolled. Of

course it was not within the power of the special committee

or the full board to make this first principle effective. The

city charter controls the situation. Your Superintendent is

merely stating the fact that where this principle has been

made effective the progress of the schools has been exceptional.

The second principle is that the professional side of :
school administration, that is the teaching and the work of |
the Superintendent, is distinct and separate from the administrative side with which members of the Committee are ,
concerned. This principle means that the authority of the |
Superintendent should measure up with his responsibility it |
is the prinaiple which declares that the schools are for the |
ehldren, and that the teacher is the chief factor im the school )
system; and it holds that the persons most fitted to judge |
the qualifications of teacher are those whose business is !
teaching and school administration. The special committee ,
and the full Board made this principle effective in remark- |
able way. The power of appointing teachers, which was !
given to the Superintendent in  was continued and
made the stronger by the power to remove teachers. The
Superintendent was also given negative power in the choosing of prineipals and supervisors, by the adoption of rule
which binds the Committee to elect each principal or supervisor from list of three candidates presented by the SuperREPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
) intendent. No more progressive school committee legislation than this has been enacted in the whole country.

There are many striking features in the new rules and
regulations, such as tenure for teachers; supervision by the
Committee in the matter of pupils’ social and athletic organizations; the establishment of special committee to
review reports of work of all first year pupils in the High
School; and strict, definite methods of approving bills and
ordering supplies.

The work of the special committee was completed and
the rules published and put into effect on June  nd,  .
The publication has attracted much attention and has received favorable comment in several educational magazines.
For clear statement of the two principles presented above,
your Superintendent is indebted to President James Duffy
of the Board of Education, Rochester, N. Y.

XX. NEW RECORD SYSTEM FOR GRADES.

Every school should have an office record system covering admission, discharge, promotion, attendance, scholarship, transfers, reports of work and the lke. Moreover,
this system should be uniform in all the schools. Feeling
the need of standard office record system in the public
schools of Holyoke, your Superintendent sought the most
expert advice on the matter. The ‘‘National School Record
System for Elementary Schools’? was recommended and introduced. similar system was already in use in the High
School. Thus the school records of the city were standardized. Four cards and loose-leaf reeord comprise this
‘‘National School Record System’’. Combined they form a
series of statistical reports worked out in accordance with
auniform plan. There is ecard for each pupil which covers
admission, discharge and promotion and which is kept in a
filmg box by the teacher. This ecard is sent with the pup l
wherever he goes. It contains the ehief facts concerning
the pupil and makes up cumulative reeord cf his progress

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
from the time he enters school until he leaves. Thus the
teacher has always at hand card index of her class. Another ecard, called the office record ecard, is practically a
duplicate of the above. It is not sent with the pupil, however, but is filed in the Principal’s office. Thus the Principal has card index of his school and the chief facts concerning its members. There is transfer card for every
pupil transferred in or out of the city. The fourth card is
the pupil’s report which is uniform with the attendance and
scholarship sheet. The latter is kept in loose-leaf binder
by the teacher. There is sheet for each pupil and the
sheets combined replace the old-fashioned register. They
contain record of daily attendance and show the conduct
and scholarship of the pupil for the year, by months. These
are also summary sheets for the ecards and at the end of the
school year, they are filed in the Principal’s office. Thus,
detailed and permanent records of all pupils who entered
our schools in September,  and who will enter every
year thereafter will be available. The advantages of this
uniform record system are so apparent that they need not
be stated. Much of this explanation is taken from pamphlet of instructions which  sent with the various cards
and forms. :
XXI. FIRE PROTECTION IN THE SCHOOLS.
The danger of fire is always present, no matter how
well protected we seem to be or how safe we think we are.
The most dreadful of all fires  the burning schoolhouse.
No fire disaster in recent years brought deeper feelings of
horror to the people of the whole country than the burning
of the Lakeview School Collinwood, Ohio, where one
hundred and seventy-three children lost their lives. The
same tragedy could be repeated today in Holyoke or in any
other city. Any school principal who fails to have perfectly organized fire drill at least once in two weeks is careless with respeet to the safety of the children placed in his
charge.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

The Board of Public Works has been most liberal in
doing its part to provide proper fire protection to the school
buildings of this city. The rules of the School Department
eall for bi-weekly fire drills. Measures for fire protection
should come before and not after the fire. Failure to have
proper and frequent fire drills is nothing short of criminal
negligence. This office has served notice, and now serves
notice, on all school principals that the responsibility for
having adequate fire protection in their schools rests heavily
on them.

XXIT. SCHOOL CENSUS.

A census of children of school age in the eity is tabulated
on page  It shows that the total number of children in
Holyoke in September,  between the ages of five and fif- ‘
teen years was  The work of taking the census was
done in business-like way under the supervision of the attendance officers. The city was carefully mapped out and
the fourteen enumerators were given definite instructions
not only regarding districts and streets, but In many cases
regarding the various houses which they were expected to
cover. The work was begun during the first week in September and completed one month. In addition to the information ordinarily collected in the taking of census, the
enumerators were able to write in their books many facts
concerning minors between the ages of fourteen and sixteen,
thus aiding the attendance officers in enforeing the new ehild
labor laws. The hope expressed in the Report of on
page that the census of would be fair, honest and

accurate is now realized.
XXIII. SCHOOL LEGISLATION OF  .

The Massachusetts Legislature of may point with
pride to its record in the matter of school legislation. There
are at least six measures enacted into law which stand out
very prominently among school laws in the Acts of  .

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Chapter has made publie school property more use- .
ful by giving school committees the power to grant to individuals and to societies the use of school property for
educational and recreational activities provided n- admission fee is charged.

Chapter has amended previous legislation requiring
employed ihterate minors between sixteen and twenty-one
to attend evening school by requiring such minors to attend
evenlng school whether they are employed or not.

Chapter has revised, rearranged and corrected all
previous legislation relating to school attendance and employment of minors. Additionally the educational test has
been raised to fourth grade standards and the requirements
respecting the school attendance and the employment of
children between: fourteen and sixteen years of age have
been most clearly stated.

Chapter has authorized the establishment of continuation schools upon compulsory basis.

Chapter famiharly known as the Child Labor Law,
has restricted the employment of minors in definite way.
It provides an eight hour day for working children under
sixteen vears of age and prohibits the emplovment of minors
In certain injurious oeeupations and gives the entire supervision of street trades to the School Department.

Chapter has been enacted to solve the question of
teachers’ pensions. It provides retirement system for the
pubhe school teachers of the state.

XXIV. ECONOMY.

Your Superintendent makes these suggestions as matters of economy: (a) Sell the building and land of the
Ewimeville School. The valuation is about It
costs about  vearly to run it. The pupils and teachers could be transferred to Highland, Nonotuck Street and
Elim Street schools. (b) Sell the school building and land
at Smiths Ferry, (e) Reduee waste in janitor serviee by.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  .
most careful supervision of supplies, fuel, light and water.
(d) Establish at once an eight grade elementary school
system in the city if the proposed commission reports favorably. (e) Establish large central supply-room and branch
supply-rooms in all schools, the same to be under the direetion of the supply clerk. These suggestions should make
for economy in this department.

XXV. TEN THINGS TO DO.

Your Superintendent wishes to close this particular
part of this report by recommending ten labors for the
school authorities of  The ten things are these:

 The development of vocational education through
household arts and science and industrial courses.

 The building up of splendid department dealing
with matters of health and physical education.

 The solving of the problem relating to eight or nine
grades and yearly or half-yearly promotions.

 The putting of the janitor service on basis of
efficiency and economy.

d. The establishment of larger central supply-room,
and of branch supply-rooms in all schools.

 The extension of manual training.

 The establishmg of wide scheme of home-visiting
by teachers. |

 The taking of material inventory of the school
system.

 The placing of medical inspection on better basis.

 The acquiring of land for Central Grammar
School.

Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS McSHERRY.

PART IV.
Reports of Principals and Supervisors

The following reports have been received by the Superintendent from the various principals and supervisors
of special departments:

HIGH SCHOOL.
To the Superintendent of Schools :

No unit in the edueational svstem is undergoing a
greater change than is the secondary school. This is particularly true of public high schools. At one time, not
many vears ago, their main funetion was that of college
preparation. Communities demanded this and the schools
met the demands.

Conditions have changed, and with these changes no
phase of education is receiving more consideration than
that which relates to the period of adolescence. The high
school  no longer looked upon as merely feeder for higher
Institutions of learning, but  coming to be regarded as a
place where each pupil may receive the kind of education
best suited to his needs and talents.

The true cosmopolitan high school does not content
itself with the making of set forms that must be conformed
to by all, but offers, within reasonable bounds, much latitude
in the election of courses and choice of studies. The bringing together of many pupils with common interests, however varied may be their courses of study or aims in lie,
creates basis for practical democratic ideas in school and
broader eitizenship im after hfe.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

In the cosmopolitan high school the immature pupil is
not of necessity required at the beginning to make choice
in his life’s work. He is given an opportunity to find himself through the variety of studies and methods of instruction; and later in his course he may call to his judgment the
helpful assistance of school, books, fellow students and
teachers. His vocational guidance will be none the less
efficient because of its being based on reason and maturity.

The Holyoke High School is endeavoring to keep pace
with this new and larger concept. The courses have been
arranged with ideas of liberal education as well as the
preparation for college and special schools.

We are ready for greater changes when it means advanee. The two departments which manifest this are the
Industrial and the Physical Training departments. As a
result of conference held last May in the Board of Trade
rooms, start has been made in co-operative shop work.
This conference was addressed by Mr. Charles Fosdick, Superintendent of the Fitchburg Steam Engine Company; Mr.
William B. Hunter, Director of the Industrial Department
of the Fitchburg High School; Mr. William C. Holden, rector of Industrial Education in the Ilartford High School;
Superintendent Francis MeSherry; President William H.
Bullard of the Board of Trade, members of the School Board
and others.

Among the industries represented at this meeting were
machine shops, foundries, printing establishments, textile
mills, woodworking plants, electrical contractors, and business offices.

About twelve pairs of boys are now working alternate
weeks, attending school one-half time. There has been
some difficulty in adjusting the school work to meet the
needs of the boys who are in different classes and in differ
ent kinds of work. This is more difficult the first year than
it will be in subsequent years. Later the boys will be more
nearly graded as to school years and subjects, and with
larger numbers taking the work, special classes can be

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

formed and maintained as efficiently as in other high school
departments. Already special classes have been organized
in Applied Scienee, and this will follow at the mid-year by
a special class in Applied Mathematics and English.

The manufacturers are to be praised for their interest
and co-operation. Without these the plan could not suc- d. The course if followed for the full time will give the
boy good high school training, and make him at the same
time an efficient workman in his chosen trade.

The enlarged shop equipment of the school offers to

- the boy in the technical school preparatory course fine opportunities in preparation for his shop work in his college
course, and also gives to many boys mechanically inclined,
a chance to specialize in machine or wood-working courses.

In my last annual report some account was given of a
mass meeting held September for the purpose of
arousing interest in new gymnasium. At this writing the
building is well along and should be fully equipped and
ready for use in September,  The possibilities are
great for the correct physical development and growth of
the high school pupils.

Already plans are being made for the organizing and
grouping of pupils in classes where the instruction given
will be best suited to the needs of the individual. All pupils
will be required to take some form of physical training.
As there is separate gymnasium for girls, and the main
gvmnasium floor proper is large, several classes may be at
work at the same time.

There will be need of change the high school program to allow time for pupils to pass to and from the gymnasium building and to make change to proper clothing for
gvinnasium work. would recommend that the class periods of the school be made an hour instead of forty-five
minutes. Regular high school subjeets could report part of
the class period for study or report less frequently than at
present. For example: Algebra classes might report four
times per week, for one hour recitations in place of five

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
times as at present, with forty-five minute recitation
period; or the class could report daily and the teacher could
well spend part of the period in supervising the study of
the next lesson. In either case, the school study and elass
periods of the pupil would not materially differ from the
present plan.

This plan would also give pupils taking laboratory
work, or work in household arts, drawing, shop work, bookkeeping and typewriting, full hour period without need of |
double periods, and consequently help to both pupil and
school in arranging the program of classes. This might
necessitate lengthening of the school day, but believe
the results would warrant such change.

The large room directly beneath the auditorium now
used as gymnasium should be converted into lunch
room. With slight expense, this could be made most desirable place for the serving of the recess lunch. Steam
tables could be placed in the center of the room surrounded
by serving counters. One side of the room should be used
for boys, the other for girls, and sufficient number of tables
and stools provided so that all might have lunch at the same
time. Under these circumstances, pupils would enjoy their
lunch period and would purchase and properly digest a
suitable lunch.

Some changes have been made in the courses of study.
Soeial Seience, or the study of social imstitution has been
introduced in the History department. Twenty-four boys
are in this class. Most of the work is capable of practical
application and related to local affairs. In the Science department, Household Chemistry has been added. Two
classes of about twenty girls each constitute the group in
this subject. The same girls are also in advanced classes in
Domestic Seience and the subjects are made to correlate.

Larger quarters are badly needed in the Science department. QOur registration is growmg rapidly in Seience
and this growth is bound to continue. The chemical laboratory does not accommodate the pupils in this subjeet and it

  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

has been necessary to continue laboratory work one and onehalf hours after the close of school four days in the week.
The classes in Physics share their room with classes in Elementary Science and the Physical Geography with the Biology classes. These arrangements interfere seriously with
the best instruction and progress of the pupils in this department. Some of the space to be vacated by the Vocational
School should be assigned to the Science department.

The head of the Modern Language department recommends that the direct method of teaching French and German be given more attention. believe he is justified in this
recommendation, and to follow out the suggestion would
ask that certain texts based upon the direct method be
adopted and used in beginning classes next fall. Neither
the age of high school pupils nor time will permit of the
exclusive use of the direct method but modification
adapted to our needs, if properly taught, should give the
pupils greater facility in speaking and writing French and
German. The study of the languages from standpoints of

. grammar and literature, leading to college requirements,
has been over emphasized.

The Commercial department has added to the work of
the fourth year pupils by an extra course in accounting.
Klein’s ‘‘Elements of Accounting’’ is the text on which the
work is based. The penmanship work has been carried on
In connection with the English classes by requiring all pupils
with unsatisfactory handwriting to report regularly Monday afternoons to special penmanship classes in the Commercial department. The Palmer method of writing is the
basis of this work.

The head of this department asks for some additional
equipment such as adding machines, new books for typewriter practice, and an additional room for one of the
teavhers who is now obliged to hold her classes in various
places,

More and more is this department coming into touch
with the business life of the city. The head of the departREPORT OF WATER BOARD  
ment has taken the proper initiative by visiting employers
of large office forces and inviting office heads to visit the

commercial classes in the high school.  better understanding of the demands of employers and the qualifications
of pupils should work to the advantage of both office and
school.

The pupils in the classes in third and fourth year
English have been graded in such way as to make it possible to give to different groups of pupils the work best
suited to their need. The groups are based on the courses
pursued. Pupils in college and technical school preparatory courses; in normal school and general courses, and in
commercial courses, are placed in different sections. This
gives the teacher opportunity to get away from strict college preparatory work with pupils who would receive
greater benefit from more liberal instruction.

Library reference work is made an important feature of
English and History study. The library books ordered
some time ago as well as supplementary list are very
much needed.

A change in the Algebra text for beginning pupils was
made with the thought of placmg in the pupils’ hands a
book which would prepare them better for the plane geometry and at the same time contain work in practical problems or problems related to other school subjects. Mathematics on the whole is presented to the pupil too much in ,
the abstract. Books and methods which make the abstract
more concrete, and the theories more practical, would give
the subject life and arouse the interest and enthusiasm of
the pupils.

The demand for broader and more practical development of the Domestic Science is apparent. To do this
properly more space and increased equipment are necessary.
Rooms should be fitted with apparatus and furnishings so
that all the essentials of household may be taught. If more
space in the gymnasium building could be given to part of

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

the Science department, there could be series of connecting rooms in this building. The rooms should include household chemical laboratories, laundry, bath-room with modern
plumbing, furnished bed-room, additional dressmaking and
millinery room, special sewing-machine room, and designing

room in connection with the Art department. The girls

need such courses as these rooms would provide, and then
we could have real and practical course in Household Arts.

Our record with the colleges  exeellent. Reports
have not yet been received for pupils entering in  but
there is every reason to believe such reports will be satisfactory. Our right of certificate to the New England College Board was renewed last spring for the usual three
year period. In Latin and Greek there have been no failures among our graduates in college work for number of
years, and most of the other departments show equally
good records.

The class of numbered  This is the largest
class so far graduated. There are candidates for diplo- —
mas in the class of  and nearly that number will
graduate. The enrolment of the High School up to January |
Ist,  was  ), considerable increase over the previous
year. Taking the number in the senior year,  and comparing it to the entire school enrolment, the showing will
be very favorable and not bettered by any city high school
in the state located in manufacturing center.

Many of our graduates are continuing their education at college, special schools and finishing schools. Some
have returned to the high school for post graduate work;
many are at work in the home, office or shops in Holyoke.

The honor students were: George E. Baril, Daniel
Roger Haggerty, John R. Kennedy, Ruth E. Miles, Roberta
E. Neill, Alice Osgood, Vera L. Spamer (Mrs. G. B. Malone),
Mary A. Shea, and Helen F. Whiting.

Dr. Marion LeRoy Burton, president of Smith College,
delivered most inspiring commencement address on the
subject of ‘‘Loyalty’’.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  S!

Changes in the faculty have been occasioned by resig nation and increased enrolment. Dr. Donald Mackenzie,
head of the Modern Language department, was sucded
by Mr. Howard Mitchell, graduate of Haverford College
and man of considerable teaching experience and foreign
study. The vacancy in the head of the Commercial department caused by Mr. Mumma’s going to Newark, N. J., was
filled by the appointment of Mr. Rufus W. Clement who
occupied similar position in the Palmer High School. Mr.
Edwin J. Keough is taking the work of Mr. John C. Varney,
who is now on the faculty of Worcester Academy. Mr.
Daniel J. Kelly, appointed director of Physical Education,
has carried on his work with enthusiasm and success. His
duties as coach in the field or on the basketball floor, while
both are important, have not overshadowed the more important work of the proper physical development of the
boys who make up the physical training classes.

The increased enrolment in the Science department
necessitated the appointment of Mr. Harry Wilcox, teacher
of Physical Geography. Mr. Edwin C. Knapp and Mr. Eric
G. Johnson, both of the Vocational School, give part of their
time to high school pupils taking shop work. Muss Eileen
McCormick is teaching classes in Latin and English the first
three school periods.

John Ross of the class of  who was chosen to represent our school at the inter-scholastie speaking contest at
Syracuse University, out of large number of contestants
received third prize. Our Assembly, society of first and

second year boys, again defeated the Agora, similar society of the Technical High School in Springfield, in the
annual debate. The triangular debating league was changed
by the substitution of the New Britain, Conn., High School
in place of the Melrose High School. Holyoke won from the
Springfield High School but lost its debate to the New
Britain High School. We are planning another contest
with the same schools for this vear and hope to win first
place.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

A pleasant feature of the social life of the high school
teachers has been in the forming of an outing club. While

| this is not part of the high school work and ought not
ordinarily be included in report, still believe that frequent gatherings of the teachers outside the school building
in an informal way create hearty spirit of co-operation
and understanding.

Through the death of Mrs. O’Connell who had served
us faithfully and well in charge of the lunch counter, a
vacancy was created not easily filled. The judgment of the
board in choosing Miss Nellie Boland as Mrs. O’Connell’s
successor has resulted in maintaining the standard of good
wholesome food at minimuin cost.

[ desire to thank you for your support and advice, and
for the co-operation of the School Committee in matters
making for the welfare of the Holyoke High School.

Very respectfully submitted,
HOWARD CONANT, Principal.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
To the Superintendent of Schools :

This school was opened in accordance with your official

order on the eighth day of September,  to boys over

| fourteen years of age, who wished to fit themselves for industrial work. The organization of the school is depart| mental, and the project scheme, as suggested by the State
Board of Education, is used as basis for the course of
study. The school has as fundamental working units Department of Woodworking and Department of Machine
Shop Practice, each equipped to accommodate fifteen working in all-day classes. Two well-equipped drafting rooms—
one for each department—have been organized to care for
all the drafting in the school.

The academic work of the school consists of Shop English, English Literature, Civics, Shop Mathematics, Industrial History, Industrial Physics, Mechanics, and Physical
Culture, this last being given in different sections, part of
the time being devoted to Athletics in the gymnasium and
a part to Personal Hygiene and Health.

It is believed that in Shop English and Shop Mathematics the best results are secured by solving problems just
as they arise in the shop; consequently these subjects are
taught on the shop floor by the shop instructor assisted by
instructors from the drafting rooms. Personal Hygiene,
English Literature and Civics, History, Physics and Mechanics are taught in the regular class room.

The following table will show the amount of time per
week devoted to each subject this year and also the proposed schedule for the second year.

WOODWORKING COURSE.
First Year.
Subject. Hrs. per week.
 Shop Practice and Shop Mathematics...........  Shop Drawing ........         

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
 Shop English ............c cc cc  vees  English Literature ............. ee   ees  
HB. Civics .. cw we we     te re   ec Personal Hygiene and Athletics...............  
Second Year.
Subject. Hrs. per week.
 Shop Practice and Shop Mathematics...........  Shop Drawing .....  ...       cree ene  Shop English ........... cc wene wen   ween  English Literature ..........  ...    ec    Industrial History .........  ...   weeee wee  MechanicS ........  cewe cw et  twee eens  Personal Hygiene and Athletics................  
(Third year and fourth year in preparation.)
MACHINISTS’ COURSE.
First Year.
Subject. Hrs. per week.
 Machine Shop Practice and Shop Mathematics....  Shop Drawing ...... cc.  weeee   eens  Shop English ........ pc  wwees  English Literature ...........  ...     ec ene  CiviecS .... ceweetweee tee tee ree OCO
 Personal Hygiene and Athletics...............  
Second Year.
Subject. Hrs. per week.
 Machine Shop Practice and Shop Mathematics....  Shop Drawing ........ cc e  tees  Shop English ........  t weee    English Literature............     Industrial History ............      vcene  Industrial PhysicS .........       eens  Personal Hygiene and Athletics................  
(Third year and fourth year in preparation.)
THE EQUIPMENT OF THE WOOD WORKING DEPARTMENT
CONSISTS OF:
  Woodworkers’ Benches.
  Tool Room equipped with small tools for joinery, carpentry
and cabinet work.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS Universal Saw Table. (American.)
  Jointer. (Crescent.)
  Single cylinder Surfacer. (Fay Egan.) :
  Universal Boring Machine. (Crescent.) :
  Bandsaw. ,(Crescent.)
  Power Mortiser. (Fay Egan.) Foot Mortiser.
  Grind Stone. ;
  Emery Grinder.
  Group of Six Speed Lathes. (F. E. Wells.) )
  H.-P. Electric Motor for Surfacer.
  H.-P. Universal Borer. ,
  H-P. Mortiser. )
  H.-P. Jointer.
  H.-P. ‘* Band Saw. |
  H.-P.  “e Saw Table.
  H.-P. Lathes. |
THE MACHINE SHOP IS EQUIPPED WITH:
  Machinists’ Vises.
  Tool Room.
  American Shaper in. with single geared crank and gradu- .
ated vise. Wet Tool Grinder..
  Power Hack Saw.
  Slide Head Drill in. (Prentice.)  Sensitive Drill in. (Snyder.)
  Arbor Press No.  (Greenerd.)
  Planer ft. in. in. (Whitcomb.)
  Cutter Grinder. (Greenfield.)
  Universal Milling Machine No. (with Universal dividing
head). (Cincinnati.)
  Robbins Engine Lathes with modern attachments.
  Reed Engine Lathes with modern attachments.
  Polishing Lathe.
  Combination Gas Furnace.
  Anvil.
  H.-P. Electric Motor.
- The Tool Room has the usual equipment of wrenches, levels,
gauges, drills, scales, calipers, hammers, files, blades, other small
tools,. etc.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
EACH DRAFTING ROOM IS EQUIPPED WITH THE FOLLOWING:
  Drafting Tables. .
  Sets of Case Instruments.
  Drafting Boards.
  Tee Squares.
  Triangles  .
  Triangles  .
  Set French Curves.
  Blue Print Frame.
| REGISTRATION AND ATTENDANCE.

On September eighth there were three registered pupils.
On October first the school had grown to twenty-one members; on November first to twenty-nine, on December first to
thirty-one, and on December twenty-fourth thirty-tive pupils
had registered. At the time of writing this report there
are ten more candidates for registration. These will be  mpossible to care for this year owing to the limited accommodations in the present quarters of the scelrool.

The attendance has been regular and the average attendance has been high as shown by monthly reports submitted to your office.

In order that the school may not be handicapped so
early in its career by lack of suitable aceqmmodations submit to you the following which may be considered as the
recommendations of this report, and as reply to your inquiries of recent date.

The plan here proposed is intended to include all vocational day classes, evening vocational classes, part time voeational work, and to make provision for all the shop work
and drafting now given as part of the technical course in
the High School, and unless the growth of these classes is

: very exceptional the plan will provide for the housing of the
above work for several years, or until definite building
policy can be determined. It  my opimion that it would
be unwise at the present time to build, owing to the facet

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
that it  impossible to determine with any accuracy the
number of departments to be provided, and the number of
vocations for which there is definite and permanent need.
It would also be unwise and it seems to me very unnecessary to hire building; unwise because suitable rent cannot be obtained where the surroundings would be desirable
for growing boys and girls, and unnecessary because by a
eareful adjustment of courses and the sympathetic co-operation with the present High School there is already available
when the new building is completed sufficient space to care
for the needs of the above work.

With the removal of the Vocatienal School from the
present quarters to the new building, and the transfer of
the Domestic Seience and Domestie Art departments to the
first floor and basement of the old building, the overerowded
condition of the High School will disappear. The new building besides caring for the present shop equipment will allow
for some growth in these departments, and also offer space

for the one or two much needed new departments.

I would therefore submit the followmg definite proposal
as solution of the problem:

First: That Building Trades department to inelude
all of the wood working equipment be installed on the sec- ,
ond floor of the new building where an area of approximately three thousand square feet is available. The drafting room for this departmenit to be located one of the socalled class rooms on the ground floor, if there is not sufficient space on the second floor.

Second: That Machine Shop be installed on the
basement floor of the new building where approximately
three thousand square feet are available. The drafting
room of this department to occupy the second so-called class
room on the ground floor, if there  not sufficient space on
the seeond floor.

Third: That Printing and Binding department be
installed on the third floor occupying approximately fifteen
hundred square feet.

  REPORT OF THE PuBLIC SCHOOLS

Fourth: That Power Operating course be installed
on the third floor with about the same space as that allotted
to the Printing and Binding department.

Fifth: That the Domestie Science department be transferred to the rooms now occupied by the machine shop and
lumber storage, thus allowing room for the growth of these
departments, and making it responsible for the lunches
served to the school.

Sixth: The Domestic Art department would then find
suitable quarters for growth if allotted the space now occupied by the wood working rooms, and the adjoming Room
 Dressmaking, millinery, and salesmanship, would in this
way be taken care of.

Much of the work involved in these changes can be performed by the vocational boys during the summer vacation,
and good deal of the equipment, such as cabinets, chairs
and tables, could be built as part of the regular shop work.

In conneetion with these changes would recommend
that the present equipment in shops and drafting rooms,
and all that is really vocational in its nature be placed at the
disposal of the Independent Board of Trustees, and in this
way placed under one administrative head responsible to
the Superintendent of Schools; the existing equipment thus
transferred together with the present force of teachers to
constitute the beginnings of vocational school.

Further, in order to avoid duplication of expensive
equipment an agreement with the School Committee would
be ssary, Whereby all technical classes from day school
and the evening high school would receive instruction m
the shops and laboratories of the Vocational School.

In conelusion would like to urge that the Vocational
School be established in the new building on Sargeant street
for the following reasons:

The boys and girls attending such sehool should have
immediate aecess to the benefits of the gymnasium, with its
swimming pool and shower baths, its surrounding tennis
eourts, and athletie fields.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

Second, the school associations which the pupils under
these conditions find after long shop and laboratory day .
are highly desirable to growing boys and girls. These benefits would be almost wholly denied the students of the Voceational School if it were located in part of the city remote
from the gymnasium, and the school would receive at its
beginning handicap which it would take years of hard
work to overcome. (At this point it should be borne in
mind that at least thirty per cent of this year’s entering
elass at the Holyoke High School will probably drop their
school work for various reasons before the end of their second year. These pupils as rule are fond of their school
associations but in many eases find their studies unsuited to
them, and would gladly continue at school if they could do
some other work for which they are better adapted. The
Voeational School should stand prepared to offer these pupils the kind of work they most need.)

Aside from these most important considerations, it
would seem undesirable to separate by any great distance
the Evening High School and the Evening Voeational School,
since many of the students in the Evening High School elect
to take courses in the Vocational School.

The fact must be considered, that if the school  located
elsewhere than in the new building, it would be necessary
to provide new force of teachers, and new equipment for
the technical work in the day and evening high schools,

"since it is impossible for the pupils to leave the building
profitably on aceount of the short period devoted to the
work in the various departments.

In the hope that this proposal will meet with your approval, and that it may receive favorable consideration at
the hands of the School Board, it is

Respectfully submitted, .
WILLIAM H. WHITNEY, Director.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

EVENING HIGH AND VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
To the Superintendent of Schools :

In presenting the report of the Evening High and Vocational Schools, for the year  it is with considerable satisfaction that we note the steady gain in membership, the expansion of the courses and strengthening of the
teaching force. Pupils who attend this school have very
definite ideas as to just what particular instruction they
want. This helps us materially and aids the pupils in keeping up active interest in their work.

In the matter of accommodation very few changes of
importance have been made during the past year. New
lights have been installed in several rooms which had not
previously been used for evening work and the kitchen and
dining room in the basement have been fitted up to care for
additional classes in cooking.

The commercial department continues to attract large
numbers of pupils. This course covers three years. In the
bookkeeping course, the first year pupils are required to take
the following subjects: Bookkeeping, four hours per week;
Commercial Arithmetic, two hours per week; Commercial
Law, two hours per week; Penmanship, one hour per week.
All pupils are required to take test at the completion of
each month’s work and formal examination is given at the
end of the school year. The work in Commercial Arithmetic has been extended so as to cover two years, and is
done very thoroughly. The work in Commercial Law is
confined to practical principles only. Special stress is placed
upon laws relating to commercial paper and ordinary business contracts. The work in the second year is much the
same as that of the first year, except that Advanced Bookkeeping is taught and seeond year work in Commercial
Arithmetie is taken up, while in the third year work pupils
are required to take four hours per week in Business English, in addition to the regular instruction in bookkeeping.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
The needs of this department are confined for the most
part to text books. The latest revised edition of Williams
and Rogers Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping should be provided as soon as possible. We should also have set of text |
books for the classes in Commercial Arithmetic. |
Classes in Shorthand and Typewriting are conducted
along the lines of any first class business school. In addition
to the regular drill in Shorthand which earries the pupil
through three years’ work, the pupil is required to take one
vear’s work in English and two years’ mstruction and practice Typewriting. Thorough instruction regarding the
machine and all attachments is given, and the work of the
pupil is kept in an alphabetical file. During the entire
course the pupils are thus given more or less drill in simple
filing. During the third year more advanced work is taken
up with legal forms and general office practice. Touch
typewriting is insisted upon throughout the course.

In the Civil Service class the work is directed to the
reports of the Massachusetts and of the United States Civil
Service Commissions and an effort is then made to work
toward the position for which pupil desires to prepare.
Different ability and previous training make individual instruction necessary. The books used in the class are the
three volumes by Ewart, Field and Morrison. Vol. I, ‘Arithmetic; Vol. II, English and Allied Subjects; Vol. III, Geography, Railway Mail and Spelling. The spirit of the
members of the class toward the work is commendable.
Great eagerness to advance is apparent and much is accomplished by these pupils. An excellent course in Literature,
History and Debating was conducted this year and the attendance was very good throughout the entire session.

Classes in Chemistry, Algebra, Geometry, French and German were not largely attendeg and will, very likely, be
discontinued by February Ist, next. These courses are
sought, for the most part, by boys and girls who desire
college preparatory work, and the attendance is Irregular.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

The Evening Vocational School has developed to such
an extent that it is almost impossible to properly conduct it.
in the High School building. Courses in Machine Shop
Practice, Shop Mathematics and Architectural Drawing
have been added this year.

In order to comply with statutory requirements the
control and conduet of this school, which includes all classes
in Hlousehold Arts, was transferred to Board of Trustees.
It is hoped that class for Steam Engineers, with full and
complete equipment, will soon be in operation, for this particular group of men have been neglected in the past.

The course in Machine Shop Practice is planned as an
extension trade course to men already employed in the machine shops about the city, and aims to give instruction to
three different groups of mechanics, viz.: Journeymen,
seeking advanced types of work; machine operators, who
Wish to gain experience on machines to which they do not
have access in their day employment; and machine helpers,
who seeing opportunities in the trade wish to fit themselves
for promotion. The instruction includes lathe, miullingmachine, drill-press, shaper, planer, grinder, ete.; bench
work and hand practice are given in fitting and filing, chipping and seraping, and making of jigs and dies where accurate laying out is called for. The demand has already developed for more advanced machine construction which can
be given as soon as the difficulties due to limited quarters
and equipment have been overcome.

The work now attempted in tool making includes prac

 tice in the making of reamers, milling cutters, gauges, and
arbors, hardening and tempering of tool steel and case
hardening.

The instruction in shop Mathematics is given on the
floor of the shop and covers the essential principles of practical arithmetic, algebra, geometry, the solving of problems
arising in the shop, the use of simple formulas, the working
out of ordinary shop problems met with in the daily work —
of the mechanic. It is to be regretted that the demand for

REPORT CF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
this kind of work is not greater since advancement to higher
grades of work and to positions as foremen depends largely
upon ability to plan for others and calculate cost in material
and labor.

The course in Machine Drawing is planned to give practical instruction to those who wish to understand drawing
and who wish to develop ability to make working sketches
as an aid to their shop work. The work includes machinesketching, sketching directly from machines or machine
parts, making detail and assembly drawings and tracing.
This course is also of great value to young men emploved
in shop work who are looking for promotion to the drafting
room. About fifty per cent of the men taking the shop
work are now taking the course in machine drawing.

In the Cabinet Making class, students are all busy making articles of furniture: most of which are of them own
design. They have made rough drawings and are working
on chairs, book-cases, music and medicine cabinets. They

| have also turned out treads and risers, posts, rails and balusters for full sized staircase which the carpentry class is
building. Others are building tool-chests for their own use.
When these jobs are completed they will be required to take
up inside house material and work from drawings which will
be furnished and explained by the instructor.

For the remainder of the term the students will be given
sets of drawings and specifications of architects, which will
be studied and explained, and the materials involved will be
diseussed. The student will make full sized details of outside and inside finish. In order to provide time for explaining and directing work from the drawings as well as making
estimates on amounts and cost of labor and material, no
time will be spent in making or copying finished drawings.
Roof and truss framing and stair-building will be continued.
Measurements will be taken from the drawings and worked
out in full size, showing the method of laying out building
or any other object from the working drawings.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

In the class in Architectural Drawing, the students learn
to read blue prints and draw from blue prints. They understand the construction of doors, chimneys, roof framing, ete.,
and the laying out, drawing and tracing of plans and elevations.

The course in Chemistry of Paper-Making which was
opened early in the term is unique in that it is the only
course of its kind conducted by public school department
in the state and perhaps in the country. It is very fitting
that Holyoke should have elass giving instruction in matters which are connected with its leading industry. The
course  most successful in every way.

This course is given for the benefit of men working in
the paper mills to assist them to clearer understanding of
the principles involved in their daily work, thus giving them
a broader and more intelligent viewpoint, which should enable them to rise to positions of higher grade involving
the basic principles as well as the usual practice. Although
it was particularly designed for the various chemical operations carried on in the paper industry, it also treats of op-.

, erations which are not chemical, such as beating, calenderIng, ete. ,

The subjects which receive attention are principally
boiling, washing and bleaching of rags, engine and tub
sizing, colors, the manufacture of special grades of paper,
beating, finishing, water purification, besides any subjects
which the class may desire to have considered. It can
readily be seen that anyone not thoroughly familiar with
the paper industry would not be able to obtain information
from these leetures. Exceptions to this rule lie in such
subjeets as Water Purification. The importance, however,
of much purified water in paper mill cannot be overestimated.

Theoretical discussions and purely chemical formulae
are used only when absolutely necessary, and when used
they are made as simple as possible.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

The class for brick-layers was not especially well attended during the past year. This was due in large
measure to the lack of proper accommodations and equipment for the pupils.

The Household Arts course was very much handicapped
by inadequate accommodations. These classes should all be
on one floor if possible. The demand for instruction was
so great in the fall that we were entirely unprepared to meet
it. The result was that we were obliged to take as large a
number as we could care for in four classes of sewing and
four classes of cooking. Each class met one night per week,
and by series of make-shifts we were later able to care
for large number of those who applied. The needs of
these classes are now known, and we should be ready to
provide for most, if not all, who apply at the opening of the
next year. These classes cannot be conducted satisfactorily
until day and evening school supplies are kept in separate
places. Under the present arrangement there is bound to
be more or less confusion and misplacing of supplies, thus
causing more or less inconvenience to both schools. Until
we know definitely the number and location of rooms in the
High School building which are to be set apart for the use
of Household Arts classes, no detailed statement of our
needs can be made, but the above suggestions cover changes
which should be made in any event. .

The registration at the beginning of the year was so
large in both Cooking and Sewing that it was necessary to
establish waiting list, and, as only small number of those
who entered in October have left in either department, we
have not yet been able to accommodate all who registered.
Two extra rooms were opened as soon as they could be made
ready, and by using folding sewing tables in one room we
were able to care for fifty-five in Sewing each evening.

In Cooking in order to hold our number till an extra
room could be equipped we were obliged to form four
classes, each meeting only one evening week. This was
done in the school kitchen in the basement thus providing

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOULS

for fourteen girls. Since January Ist there have been four
classes, each meeting two evenings week. The work is
most practical. It begins with bread making and deals
largely with making simple, wholesome dishes and using
the cheaper cuts of meats in attractive ways. This is done
by cooking and serving entire meals, breakfasts, dinners and
suppers, utilizing left-overs, and in every way possible
teaching economy in the buying and preparation of food.

To do efficient work in the cooking classes we should |
have, before we register another year, most thorough renovation of the rooms in the basement, if that part of the |
building is to be used for classes. The floors, wainscoting, :
ventilation, heating equipment and the entire surroundings
should be put into shape to care for pupils who take the
work in these rooms.

It will take the most careful planning and much time
to make the necessary changes in the building for this work.
I would urge that no time be lost by the committee in charge

of this branch of the work. The plans should be made early
in order that the work may be completed in the summer so
that our pupils next fall may not be hindered in their work.

In the sewing classes work is done pertaining to underclothing, shirt-waist making, one-piece dresses, wool dress
skirts, and at the holiday season, embroidery and other
fancy work. Girls are encouraged to make over dresses
no longer im use and to make articles for other members of
their families.

This year there has been some demand for millinery,
and it would require very little equipment to provide for a
class to take this up in simple way next year. .One fact about the attendance of the women in these
vocational classes should hke to emnphasize. Most of them
come for the entire school vear, although it is possible for
them to enter for ony one, or more units.

In many of the classes believe that medical inspection,
at least in so far as it pertains to eve and ear, can be extended to evening schools. have no doubt:it would result
in much good.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

There is splendid opportunity in Holyoke for the development of this Evening Vocational School, and hope
that our city government will provide liberal appropriation for its proper equipment and conduct.

This school gives to the wage earner the opportunity
which he craves. It increases his earning capacity, makes
him more efficient and skillful workman and better citizen. Besides it gives him the benefit of broad and liberal
education. Future years will show the far reaching effects
of this kind of training.

Respectfully submitted,
P. J. GARVEY, Principal.
MANUAL TRAINING.
To the Superintendent of Schools :
I submit to you report of the work in Manual Training in the Holyoke schools. For the purpose of this report
it is convenient to consider the work of this department in
three divisions, as follows:

I. The Elementary Handwork in the lower grades;

II. Manual Training in the grammar grades; III. Manual
Training in the High School.

Regarding Elementary Handwork. No organized work
of any kind has ever been attempted in Holyoke until this
year. Experimental or test classes have been carried on
with groups of six children from different schools under
the direction of Miss Helen Burke. This work has been in
operation since the first of January. Tests have been made
with different classes, and with the following materials:
Clay, raffia, reed, paper, cloth, cardboard, wood, and textiles. On February  after observing the work of these
test classes for more than month, the School Committee
voted to introduce the work, and Miss Burke was engaged
as teacher in charge.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
The work as now planned will be presented to all pupils
in all schools in the city from grades one to six inclusive.
The teacher in charge will visit each grade once im five
weeks, giving assistance to the room teachers from grades
one to four, and in addition will teach the work in grades
five and six. complete course of study has been planned
and will be made effective at once.
Regarding Manual Training in the Grammar Grades.
This work was introduced in the fall of  taking the
entire time of one instructor and part of the time of sec- |
ond. Beginning in September,  the entire time of two
instructors has been given to the work. The classes from
grades seven, eight and nine that reported to the High
School shops last year, are receiving their instruction this
year at the Highland and Morgan shops. This arrange- |
ment has relieved the High School shops, and has also re- |
duced the size of classes from these grades making it possible to do more effective work.
There are still several classes that receive manual instruction but once in two weeks. This condition together
with the fact that no class receives more than one and a
quarter hours instruction per week makes it impossible to
undertake other desirable forms of work, and very difficult
to improve the standard of the work in operation. As a
means of improving these conditions another manual training shop should be equipped, and third teacher engaged.
Such shop would accommodate all classes from the Lawrence and Kirtland schools, and provide for an extension of
the time of all classes in Manual Training.
The following suggestions and courses of study are
offered only as guide to the shop teacher, and are made
flexible enough to meet the various conditions of the city
schools:
SHOP-WORK AND DRAWING.
Shop-work and drawing are so closely related that a
great deal of real training is lost if one is taught without
the other.

; REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
The character of the work for boys differs from that
offered to the girls at this age; that for boys tending to
partake of operations, processes, and materials resembling
those found in real industry and necessitating an equipment
differing from that of the fifth and sixth years.

The courses offered in these upper grades aim:

(a) To develop sense of the value of industrial work
through experience in processes and in the handling of
materials; (b) to give dignity to the work of the artisan by
developing in the community an intelligent support for his
services; (c) to add materially to the number of opportunities for bovs to find themselves.

The work in these upper grades does not aim to give
special training In any occupation or industry with the view
to increasing the earning capacity of pupil, but it does .
aim to offer ideas of important industries and occupations
with view to assisting in the selection of vocation should :
the pupil desire to continue in the industrial department for
further training.

The work in construction and drawing is of as great
value to the boy who takes profession as to the boy who
intends to specialize in industry.

The course here suggested must be something more than .
a group of models. It should offer an opportunity for personal work on the pupil’s part, and an opportunity for invention either in design or construction or in adaptation to
some new use.

It should be capable of holding the pupil’s interest and
should be adapted to his ability and perhaps to his school
or home needs.

It should call for the best technic of which the pupil is
capable and should be accompanied by related drawings in
the form of pencil sketches, or finished instrumental
drawings. .

The study of materials and tools with some mention of
their relation to industry should be considered an important
part of the course.

  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

It is of the greatest importance that the pupil’s terest
and needs be consulted. There is just as much training for
a boy in the making of an incubator or brooder or in setting
a light of glass on his hot-bed sash as there is in making a
nice half-lap joint which he can never use.

Any training the pupils get should be for service.

It may be convenient to begin with class project,
teaching the class as whole until the uses of few common tools have been mastered. As soon as any individual
skill is evident the pupil should be encouraged to attempt
independent work which often acts as strong stimulus and |
tends to keep an otherwise inefficient pupil longer at school. |

A determined effort should be made to get good work
without depending upon the pupil's personal ownership in
the finished product. Pupils should be led to undertake
projects of use to the school department or community and
upon such projects they may work either as individuals or
In groups.

For the more limited bench work some fixed method of
procedure may be adopted as the following:

(a) Make free hand drawings of the project or illustrate by use of pictures or perspective sketches.

(b) Consider the follownig points: Utility, design,
construction, material, finish. If variation in design or
construction is offered, select the most suitable, and make

, finished drawing, with bill of material.

(c) In the ninth grade it is often desirable to make a
tracing of finished drawing and from this tracing blueprints for the class work. In connection with this the commercial uses of drawings and blue-prints should be discussed.

(d) The object should be made after careful study of
the following points: Construction, arrangement of parts,
character of materials, method of working, economy of material, the construction of tools, and their mechanical principles. |

 (e) Some time should be devoted to methods of finishing work, such as staining, shellacing, polishing, waxing, ete.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

(f) Seeure the co-operation of the Art teacher in criticism before making the object. .

, MECHANICAL DRAWING.

The ability to read quickly and correctly working
drawing Is so important to those engaged in the metal and
building trades that this work cannot be neglected.

It is well to avoid fixed number of drawing plates
and relate the work directly to the bench work. The following method  suggested.

(a) Make free hand working drawing of project showing the necessary views. (b) Make an instrumental drawing with pencil either full size or to seale. (c) Finish the
drawing with dimensions, notes, lettering, and stock bill.

When the pupil has finished the grade work he should
know the following points well.

(a) The difference between perspective sketch and a
working drawing. (b) The number of views necessary to
a clear understanding of the problems. (c) The relation of
each view to the project. (d) The use of section drawing.
(e) The difference between an assembled drawing and a
detail drawing.

Note.—These points are easily illustrated by bringing
to the class room blue prints from any industrial plant in
the city.

The following points should be considered in laying
out drawing:

(a) Cut the paper to sizes used in commercial practice.
(b) Emphasize correct placing of drawing. (c) The sheet
should always contain title, and bill of material. (d) Conventional lines and lettering should be used.

Teach the use of the square, triangle, seale, dividers,
and drawing pencil.

Geometrical problems should not be taught until the
need arises. They will then be of some service because the
necessity for their construction is clear.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Aside from the usual bench work in wood, other materials and processes should be introduced.

All pupils are not interested in wood work. There are
usually boys who have an intense interest in other things.
It is not unusual to find boys that have great liking for
electricity, printing, agriculture, and making scientific aplances, ete. |

It is quite as convenient in the properly equipped scho:l
shop for boy to devote his time to the making of motor,
telegraph instrument, book plate or ineubator, as it is to
spend his time making tie rack or handkerchief box,
and in doing so it  quite possible that he may develop a
broader interest and keener intelligenee the world about
him.

Such materials as copper and brass have great value in
the industrial arts, and if used in connection with wood
add very distinct interest to shop work.

The construction of brass or copper hinges, escutcheons,
and drawer pulls in cabinet work offer opportunities for
the introduction of these materials.

The following suggestive list of twelve projects is
offered for the grades:

Seventh Year. Small hand loom, key board, necktie
rack, elliptical bread board, towel roller, waste basket, shoe
box, hat rack, book shelves, broom holder, plant stand, foot
stool.

The woods used in grade seven should be seleeted with
reference to the article made from white pine, butternut,
chestnut and whitewood.

The operations are measuring, gaging, lining, planing,

. sawing, squaring boring, chaimfering, nailing, gluing (cold), sandpapering, staining, shellacing, oiling, waxing, sharpening tools.

These common tools used in bench work will be needed:
Beneh rule, marking knife, gage, planes, back saw, crescent
saw, spokeshave, bits and stock, hammer, serewdriver,
seraper, sharpener.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

In connection with the work of grade seven excursions
should be made to the lumber yards, camps, and forests, and
to the manufacturing plants in the city. These trips will
supply interesting material for study and discussions in the
class room, and will open the minds of many boys to the
meaning of some of the country’s greatest industries.

Eighth Year. When the pupil has completed the
seventh grade work he has acquired some little skill in the
use of tools, and can now be assigned to do some group work
where number of boys are engaged together in working
out school or community problem.

This is suggestive list of group problems: Tool holders, cabinets, sawing benches, lumber racks, tables, stools,
toys, games, sleds, carts, playground apparatus, garden apparatus, ete.

This is suggestive list of bench problems: Medicine
eabinet, taboret, picture frame, telephone stand, clothes
rack, printing frame, hat rack, book shelves, flower box,
glove box.

New tools, new woods, and new operations will be introduced at the discretion of the teacher.

Ninth Year. When the pupil has completed the work
of grade eight he has considerable knowledge of the use of
tools, and knows something about their uses. He is able
therefore to undertake larger group problems and should
be able to secure better quality of work in his individual
problems at the bench.

This is suggestive list of group problems: Mending
furniture, wiring electric bells, making brooder, making incubator, hot beds, cold frames, small greenhouse, science
apparatus.

This is suggestive list of bench problems: Drawing
board, square, blue print frame, umbrella rack, serving

' tray, table, chair, book rack, magazine stand, work bench.
Regarding Manual Training in the High School: The
| reorganization of this department has been made possible
because of the establishment of the Vocational Sehool, the

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

entire equipment of the vocational shops and drafting rooms
having been made available for the instruction of all pupils
in the manual training department. The courses now
offered cover four years of shop work and four years of
mechanical drawing.

The first year in the shop is devoted to elementary
bench work and cabinet construction, the second year to
wood-turning and pattern-making.

The work in drawing during the first two years is
planned to cover all of the shop work so that the pupil may
have reading knowledge of his shop problems, and in
addition to this some theoretical knowledge of the principles of projection.

The following problems are offered as representing a
first vear course in wood working: Drafting board, T

) square (swivel or single head), pair of triangles 
and  ), drafting table (adjustable), picture frame,
medicine cabinet, choice of towel rack, umbrella stand, hbrary desk, hbrary chair, mirror, lamp stand, sewing table,
laundry table; group problems as furnishing living room,
a dining room, or library.

The second year work involving wood-turning and pattern-making is planned to teach the principles underlying
these lines of work by the selection of typical problems as
In the first year. |

The third year in shop work is devoted to Machine Shop
Practice, and consists primeipally of elementary exercises
at the bench, lathe, and drill. These include chipping and
filing plane surfaces on east iron; chipping key-ways in
steel; use of measuring tools in laying out work; filing and
scraping for accuracy commercial finishes on iron and steel;
drilling, reaming, and tapping; forging and tempermng
chisels, scrapers, and lathe tools; grinding chisels, drills
and lathe tools for proper cutting angle; plain eylindrical
turning in the lathe, centering and squaring; use of calipers
and micrometers. ,

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  S

The drawing for the third year consists in the representation of bolts, nuts, screw threads, and pulleys. Simple
details of machine parts are studied in connection with shop
practice.

The fourth year shop work consists of advanced lathe
work, chucking, boring, turning on mandrel, taper turning, face plate work, and screw cutting. There is advanced
work on the drill, shaper, planer, milling machine, and
grinder; the making of simple machines, or parts, such as
drill sockets, small tools, reamers, counterbores, taps, mandrels, gears, and milling cutters.

The drawing for the fourth year covers detailed and assembled drawings of common machines such as lathe, drill
‘and shaper. The work is planned to meet the individual
needs of the student, and includes as far as possible the
principles underlying the use of the machines found in the
shops.

In addition to the above courses, plans are now ready
for the organization of course in Art Metal and Jewelry
Work. The demand for this work has come from the Art
department and is genuine expression of real need of
the pupils of that department.

It is probable that course of this sort will tend to
draw into the art work pupils who although interested in
art have not yet found means of expressing themselves in
terms of materials.

Respectfully submitted,
WM. H. WHITNEY, Supervisor.
HOUSEHOLD ARTS.
| To the Superintendent of Schools :

Work in the classes in sewing of both the High School

and the grades has been along most practical] lines. In the

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

six high school classes, numbering one hundred and fifty
girls, there have been finished four hundred and fifty-five
garments. The first week of the year is spent in hemming
towels for use in the Domestic Science department, and the
first week in December in stocking darning. Twelve wool
dress skirts have been made, and are being worn, by girls
taking advanced work, and some girls are making practically all the garments they wear in school.

In the seventh and eighth grades, the work is most
elementary, but in the ninth grade few plain wash dresses
will be made during the spring term. It is most desirable
that the graduating dresses for the grades be more simple,
and two of the school principals have asked help from the
teachers and supervisor in this matter. As the class graduating next year will have had three years of sewing in the
grades, it is quite possible for them to make their commencement dresses, if sentiment for simplicity can be established.
This  requirement in many schools, and would probably
result.in more girls remaining in school longer period, as
it is stated that some are obliged to leave before graduating
because of expense attending commencement exercises.

To regulate the number of pupils in each class, and the
number of classes in Sewing in the High School, it may be
necessary to make the subject requirement in certain years,
instead of elective in any two years of attendance.

As the work after the first of the year will be mostly on

dresses, it  very desirable to have an assistant on Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays, as there is no class of less than
twenty-five pupils, and our periods are only forty minutes
in length. With that number of pupils and length of period,
it is impossible for one instructor to teach fitting properly.
Respectfully submitted,
ELISABETH I. PERKINS, Supervisor.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
DRAWING. 
To the Superintendent of Schools:

The time has passed when the value of art education in
the public schools is judged only by the ability of the pupil
to draw and paint pictures. It is comparatively very
small number who will ever be called upon to do work of
this kind, and if proficiency in drawing and painting were
the only end to be attained it would never be worth while
to take the time of many pupils for the benefit of the few. |
The aim of the art training in the public schools is much
broader than this and tends to fit every pupil to fill to better
advantage any position in life to which he may be ealled.
His powers of observation are trained, his hands are trained
to do more accurate work along many lines, and ideals of
fine form and beautiful color are created in his mind.

Our course in Drawing, so far as is possible in the limited time at our disposal, aims to develop pupils along these
lines. The work is carried on under favorable conditions in
most cases and the results secured indicate that the course is
well planned. special effort has been made to encourage the
pupils to plan their original design work for some particular
object that may be worked out in appropriate materials.
The work along this line in the upper grammar grades was
so successful last year that Mrs. Dougherty, the supervisor
in charge of this work, thought the public would be interested to see what the children had been able to accomplish.
Mr. Steiger kindly consented to allow the use of one of his
large windows for the display and the work attracted a
great deal of attention. Each grade had its own problem.
Grade five designed lamp mats and sofa pillows; grade six,
bags or table or bureau scarfs; grade seven, lamp shades;
grade eight designed stencil patterns for sofa pillows, bureau
scarfs, curtains, ete.; grade nine boys designed patterns to
ornament small boxes of wood that were very attractive,
while grade nine girls designed embroidery patterns to dec  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

-orate collars and cuffs, shirt waists, guest towels, ete. The
children were much interested in making all these different
articles and the whole display was remarkable one, deserving the commendation that it received.

The primary work which is under Miss Lynn’s direction also attracted favorable.notice during the past year;
so much so that photographs of it were requested for publication in leading educational magazine. Again, specimens of High School work were borrowed by prominent
publishing firm for display in their offices. These facts are
only worthy of note because they prove that the work of the
Holyoke schools commands the respect of those best able
to judge of its merit.

The supervisors hold meetings once month for the
teachers of each grade in order that they may always be
well informed concerning the lessons to be given to the
pupils. It would be helpful to new teachers if place
eould be provided for small permanent exhibition of pupils’ work, where it could be inspected by them when they
attend the regular teachers’ meetings.

The need is often felt of small supply of objects suitable for models, to be used in giving the drawing lessons.
Time is often lost in endeavoring to supply this lack and
even at best the models obtained are usually unsuitable. A
small amount of money would go far in supplying this need.

The correlation of Drawing with other subjects in the
school curriculum seems highly desirable and particularly so
in connection with Manual Training. Design work, one of
the most important topics In our course, is incomplete unless
applied to some object and it  to be hoped that close
relationship will be established between Drawing and Manual Training if handiwork is to be given separate schedule.
Only by working together can these two departments secure
the best results.

I was fortunate in being able to spend part of last
year In travel and study. Remembering the difficulty of
securing specimens of good color work at moderate price

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
in America purchased in Japan about twenty-five paintings
and have presented them to the High School so that the

pupils there may always have before them some illustrations
of good color work. also secured in New York dozen
large original drawings in pen and pencil by prgminent American illustrators. They are valuable as showing the technique required for drawings designed for reproduction in
magazines or other printed work. These too have been presented to the High School with the hope that the two collections may prove helpful to the pupils there for many years
to come.

I thank the principals and teachers for their intelligent

-  -operation and the Superintendent and members of the
School Board for their cordial support of the Art department. ,

Respectfully submitted,
ISABELLE H. FERRY, Supervisor.
WRITING.
To the Superintendent of Schools:

During the past year there was introduced into the
Holyoke schools from the first grade through the High
School the ‘‘Palmer Method of Business Writing’’. It apparently has solved the problem of getting good and permanent results in penmanship in our schools. This system
combines muscular movement, ease, speed and legibility with

accuracy of form and perfection of finish. The ‘‘Palmer
Method”’ offers one hundred and seventy-two drills embodying all combinations of capitals and small letters, and presents the quickest and most direct way of acquiring rapid
business writing. This system eliminates the use of ecopybooks and gives the pupil text-book. In the first two
grades the manual has been simplified and mueh board work
is presented. would suggest that as the system is worked

  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

up through the grades, the ninth grade pupils be given the
opportunity of trying to secure Palmer diplomas in connection with those given for other branches of study.

In this new work the teachers have been required to
submit papers every two weeks, so that they may have a
knowledge of the system and be able to present it to their
pupils. These teachers’ papers, which contain self-teaching
lessons, are corrected in New York and returned to the
teachers in time for study and practice before the next lesson. Miss Mary A. Lynn, Principal of the Ewingville
School, was the first local public school teacher to receive a
Palmer diploma awarded for excellence in Palmer writing.

I have attended normal lecture courses at Northampton, which have embodied into number of lessons to be
given at teachers’ meetings during the sucding terms.
Although Palmer writing has been in our schools but two
terms our success has been pronounced. This is attested by
the representative of the system, who stated that in no city
which he has visited have there been better or more immediate results than in our schools. The work of the Holyoke
schools in Palmer writing forms part of the exhibit in penmanship at the convention of the school superintendents of the country, held in Richmond, Virginia, this year.

In closing wish to thank those associated with me in
my work for their courtesy and co-operation.

Respectfully submitted,
ESTHER A. MacDONNELL, Supervisor.
MUSIC.
To the Superintendent of Schools:

This department reports that the past year has been
one of progress in the different schools. In the primary
schools the work was most satisfactory. Good results were
obtained in sight-singing, tone-production and song-singing,
as shown at the Christmas Concert, and at the Christmas

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  r
Tree in the City Hall. In sight-singing, the children are
quite proficient. The sight-singing is continued through the
grammar grades with satisfactory results considering the
time allowed for music. This lack of time is great drawback. In three and four part music one hour week is not
enough; yet under this handicap we have done some very
remarkable work this year. feature of the music work,
especially enjoyed by the pupils, is the introduction of the
old home and heart songs into the lessons.

At the annual Christmas Concert there was sung, in a
masterly way, the cantata entitled ‘‘Christmas Eve’’ by
Gade. This work was sung by the combined ninth grades.
Solo parts were taken by musicians of the city. do not
think this work was ever given by school chorus before.
Those who attended the concert commended the performance
as remarkable. The concert was repeated on the following
Sunday for the benefit of the public. We were assisted by
a chorus from the lower grades who sang carols. In connection with the Christmas Concert wish to give to the
grade teachers their share of the credit for its success, and
I wish here to thank the teachers for their efforts and the
prineipals for their co-operation in all work done. :

In the High School, on Wednesday mornings, have
three choruses, the first beimg seniors, which is larger than
in former years. We are doing good work. We are now
studying ‘‘Hiawatha’s Wedding’’ by Taylor, which hope
we will be able to give before the end of the school year.
The other choruses are studying miscellaneous music from
the great composers. The orchestra does splendid work.
They play for the graduations and other school events. On
Friday morning have three glee clubs, two for girls and
ore for boys. They are doing commendable work.

I wish to thank the Committee, the Superintendent and
the principals for their interest and co-operation.

Respectfully submitted,  
| HUGH CRAIG, Supervisor...

rz: REPORT OF. THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
To the Superintendent of Schools:

A sound mind needs sound body. The value to growing girls and boys of properly selected and directed physical
exercises, as regular part of all their activities, cannot be
overestimated. Undoubtedly the mental work, health and
morals of every girl and boy are greatly benefited by habits
of muscular exercise.

At present physical training classes are conducted only
in the High School, but plans are being made to introduce
the work into the grades as evidenced by the recent appointment of physical director for grade work. The aim of
this department is to introduce into the grades exercises
adapted to the physical needs of the children. These exercises include correct sitting, standing, breathing, facing and
walking positions with interesting and beneficial setting-up
drills and games. |

The physical training work for boys in the High School
consists of military marching and tactics, hygienic dumbbell and free hand ealistheniec drills, recreative and competitive games. During the fall season two hundred and eight
High School students entered physical training classes twice
weekly. All exercises practiced are conducted for the purpose of good health and not for mere strength. ,

-' Leetures on First Aid, as well as on Personal Hygiene,
are given throttghout the school year by the Physical Director. The First Aid lectures teach boy how to treat,
‘‘Wounds and’ Bleeding’’, ‘‘Burns and Scalds’’, ‘‘Sprains
and Fractures’’, ‘‘Fainting’’, ‘‘Drowning’’. Personal Hygiene talks consist of ‘‘Proper Clothing’’, ‘‘Care of Body”’,
‘“Ventilation of Rooms’’, ‘Prevention Treatments of Colds’’,
and soon. |. |

On entering the new gymnasium thorough physical
examination will be given each boy, in which the condition
or heart and lungs will be carefully noted and life card

lled..REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

The gymnasium is only one of the means used to direct
properly all physical exercise. Interscholastic athletics form
one department of physical education. The school supports
contests with other schools in rugby and soccer football,
basketball, baseball, hockey, track and tennis. During the
fall season thirty-three students reported daily for rugby 
football practice, twenty-two for soccer practice, twenty-one
for basketball and twenty-four for hockey, making total
of one hundred students taking part in athletic exercises.
Greater interest in athletic exercises would result if the
school had suitable athletic field upon which to carry out
its work. Eligibility regulations, depending on scholastic
standing, help to determine the make-up of these school
teams. ]

The grammar school soccer league conducted during
the fall season afforded opportunity for no less than seventyfive boys to take part in physical exercise. The interest and
co-operation of the principals of the schools, entered in this
league, aided the success of the league greatly. Noting the
sportsmanlike manner in which the boys played throughout
the soccer league season, the Supervisor would recommend
to the School Board the organization of Grammar School
Athletic League, which would consist of soccer during the

fall season; basketball during the winter; and baseball during the spring. This would:

(a) Promote the health of the boys.

. (b) Stimulate the boys to greater efforts in their
studies.

(ec) Develop love for clean athletics.

(d) Encourage spirit of loyalty to their schools.

(e) Engender spirit of obedience to law and order.

The girls’ department of physical education is being
conducted by Miss Powers and during the fall term ninety
girls reported twice each week for physical exercise. As
the average girls grow stronger, as their larger motor ,
muscles are brought into action and developed through
play, as their heart and lungs are stimulated through

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

proper breathing and through proper exercise of pleasing
variety, then and then only shall we be sure of more
healthy and robust type of child in the future. To this end
the instructor has planned course of dances and games,
which will bring to the girls all the healthful reactions which
stimulate and make for greater growth, physically, morally
and socially. Light gymnastics and organized play, corrective and recreative exercises, calculated to meet the needs
of the growing girl, tending to stimulate and strengthen the
muscles, and to promgte the health and activity of the whole
body, form the basis of the work.

The relation between perfect physical development and
personal cleanliness has been emphasized in the lecture given
the girls on personal hygiene; and instructions have been
given on proper methods of bathing, eating and sleeping.
The growing girl needs plenty of sleep and the home can aid
the school to promote the physical welfare of the girl by
looking closely to the matter of necessary outdoor exercise,
good food and sufficient sleep.

Adding the thirty-three Vocational School students who

- take physical exercise to the numbers already mentioned
would bring the total to five hundred and six girls and boys
who have taken some form of physical exercise during the
fall term.

Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL J. KELLY, Supervisor.

PART V.
Statistical Report of Superintendent

To the School Committee of Holyoke:

| Your Superintendent submits the following statistical
report under five headings:
- A—Statistices giving general information regarding the
number of pupils, attendance, receipts and expenditures.
-B—Financial statistics presenting the latest salary schedule, ]
showing how the school appropriation was spent and
giving the accounts with the various schools.

C—Attendance statistics covering enrolment, membership,
attendance, number of teachers, distribution of pupils by

' schools, grades, ages and courses.

D—NStatistics comparing attendance and distribution of pupils, receipts and expenditures through several school
years.

E—Miscellaneous tables and information.

UNDER (A) GENERAL STATISTICS.

Population of Holyoke, National Census May,
 S) 

Population of Holyoke, June,  ............  

Total valuation of property.................. 

School Census, September,  :
Number of children to years of age...  
Number of children to years of age...  

Number of pupils enrolled in all public schools,
year ending June,  ..................  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Number under years of age................  
Number over years of age...........  
Number between and years of age........  
Average membership in all public schools, year
ending June,  ............. .  
Average attendance in all public schools, year
ending June,  ...........       
| Per cent of attendance................    
Total income of School Department for fiscal
year ending November  th,  ........ 
Total expenditure of School Department for fiseal year ending November  th,  ..... 
Unexpended balance November  th,  .....  
Expended by Board of Public Works:
Sites and new buildings.................  
Repairs .....  ...      eeaee  
Fuel, power, light and water.............  
Expended by Board of Health for Medical InSPeCtlOnN ....   ec   eens  
Total expenditure for support of schools, year
ending November  th,  ............. .
Total expenditure for support of schools for .
year ending June  th,  as reported
to State Board of Education.............  
Total expenditure for support of schools for
. year ending June  th,  .............  
*Cost per pupil based on average membership
‘for year ending June  th,  Report of
State Board of Education,  ....,  
Cost per pupil based on average membership
- for year ending June  th,  .........  
Cost per pupil in day schools for year ending
June  th,  ...  ... ce    ) ADLT 
*Expenditure for support of all public schools (day and evening) divided by average
membership in day schools.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  .
Cost per pupil in evening schools for year end- OO
ing June  th,  .....................  
Tax on one dollar of valuation (for support). 
UNDER (B) FINANCIAL STATISTICS. |
TABLE I. FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
I. Receipts. |
Dog taxeS .........     
TwUition ..... cc      .
Sale of furniture................  
Sale of books............... ..
Sale of supphies................. |
Refund from State for Evening an
Industrial School ........... -
: ————— 
Appropriations: 
Regular Salaries ..............e ++++  
Janitor Salaries ..........  eens  
Regular Supplies ..................+ ++.  
Janitor Supphes .....................-. 
Total income ............   eeee 
Total expenditures ............      ) |
Balance  ...   cc     enes Expenditures. a
Salaries:  
Day school teachers.........  
Evening school teachers..... |
Superintendent ............ a
Clerks  ...  ee   
Attendance officers .........  
Janitors and matrons....... 
Census ........    eens  || |
Total salaries .............. .c 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
| Supplies:

Rental .........       :
Furniture ...........cce e-  
Janitor supplies ............  
Building supplies ..........  
Educational supplies ....... Text books .............  
Truant school ..............  
Printing and advertising....  
Telephones ................  
Freight, express and cartage.  
Livery ..........  ewes  
Office expenses ............ .
Transportation .............  
Graduation ............  
Baths .........  ...     
Vocational machinery ...... :

| Unelassified ................  
Total supplies ................ 
Total expenditures .............- 
Total receipts ..............    
Balance ..........c     ecnees 

 Estimates for Fiscal Year Ending November .

Salaries:
Day school teachers......... 
Evening school teachers....  
Superintendent ............  
Clerks ......  ...     
Attendance officers .........  
Schoolhouse agent ......... 
Janitors and matrons.......  
CensuS  ... ..      ees  

- Total salaries ..................... .. 

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Supplies:
Rental .............. 
Furniture ...........-c   
Janitor supphes ...........  
Building supplies ..........  
Educational supplies .......  
Special departments’ supplies  
Text books ................  Truant school .............  
Printing and advertising....  
| Telephones .............  
Freight, express and cartage  
Livery .......       
Office expenses .............  
Transportation .............  
Graduation ................  
Baths .......  ...      
Highland furniture ........  
Unclassified ...............  
Total supplies ............... -+- 
Total estimates ..............   ee+ 
Less probable receipts................  
Appropriation requested ..................- 
TABLE II. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
Salaries Supplies Total
December .......... 
January .........  . 
February ...........  . 
March .............  . 
April ..............  . 
May ...............  
JUNE  ...    . 

Igo REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salaries Supplies Total
JULY occ      . 
August .............  
September .........  . 
October ............  . 
November ..........  . 
Total for year... 
Total receipts...........    
Balanee November .............. 
TABLE III. COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE MEMBERSHIP.
Day Schools.
Cost Based on Cost Based on KinderTotal Expenses. Teaching Only. gartens
High .................  
East Dwight St........  
Elin St. ...........  
Elmwood .............  
Ewingville ............  
Hamilton St. ..........  
Highland .............  
Ingleside .............  
Joseph Metealf ........  
Kirtland ..............  
Lawrence .............  
Morgan .......... |
Nonotuck St. ..........  
Park St. ...........  
Sargeant St. ..........  
South Chestnut St...... 
Springdale ............  
West Sto co... ..     
West Holvoke .........  
William Whiting ......  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Evening Schools. a
| High and Vocational... Lawrence .............  

Morgan ............... ———-§. 

West St. .......... |

William Whiting ......  

TABLE V. SALARIES IN EFFECT DECEMBER .
The established salaries of teachers shall be as follows, according to Rules and  :

Teachers of Grades: I-VI VII VIII IX
First year ..........  
Second year ........  
Third year .........  
Fourth year ........  
Fifth year .........  
Sixth year .........  
Seventh year .......  
Bighth year ........  
Ninth and sucding

YearB ...        

Kindergartners: Principals Assistants
First year ..........  —- 
Second year ........  
Third year .........  
Fourth year ........  
Fifth year .........  
Sixth year ..........  
Seventh year ....... and sucding years  
Eighth and sucding

YCarB ....  eves  
High School Teachers, not heads of departments:
: Men Women
First year of service...  
Second year of service  
Third year of service.  
Fourth year of service  
Fifth year of service..  
Sixth year of service...  
Seventh year of service and sucding years  
Eighth and sucding
years ............  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Heads of Departments—High School: Men
First year of service............. e 
Second year of service............    ves  
Third year of service............. cc wee  ees  
Fourth year of service............   ces ceaaee  
Fifth and sucding years........... ees  
Principals of Primary Buildings: lor or More than
rooms rooms rooms
First year in charge of school.. 
Second year in charge of school.  
Third year in charge of school..  
Fourth year in charge of school.  
Fifth and sucding years....  
Principals of Grammar Schools: rooms More than
or less rooms
First year in charge of school..  
Second year in charge of school.  
Third year in charge of school..  
Fourth year in charge of school.  
Fifth year in charge of school..  
Sixth year in charge of school..  
Seventh year in charge of school  
Eighth year in charge of school.  
Ninth year in charge of school..  
Tenth year in charge of school..  
Eleventh and sucding years.  
Substitutes:
In High School................-e e- --+ per day 
In gradeS .........              per day  
In kindergartens ............... .e +-e--- per day  
Teachers in Evening Schools: High Elementary
Heads of departments (men), per evening  ,
Men teachers ............. per evening 
Women teachers ........... per evening  
Principals of Evening Elementary Schools:
First year in charge of school.......... per evening 
Second year in charge of school......... per evening  
Third year in charge of school.......... per evening  
Fourth and sucding years........... per evening  
Janitors in Day Schools. See Part VII., page  
Janitors in Evening Schools:
Elementary schools, for each class room. per evening 
High School .................+ .-+.-.- per hour  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
UNDER (C) ATTENDANCE STATISTICS.
TABLE ENROLMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE.
Total Number
of Teachers Total Number Number Average Per Cent.
. including Pupils Belonging Attendance of AttendPrincipals Enrolled Dec. for Nov. ance
High ..........  
Vocational ......  
Grades .........  
Kindergarten ...  
Special Dep’tm’ts.  
TABLE II. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY AGES AND
CLASSES.—DECEMBER,  .
Cl
Class Age Total Totai
 Boys  
Post Graduate Girls  ); 
Boys  
Senior Girls  Boys 
Junior Girls   
Boys  
Sophomore Girls  
Boys] 
Freshman Girls}  }/  
Boys|  
Total Girls}    
TABLE III HIGH SCHOOL—AVERAGE AGES—DECEMBER,  .
Class Boys Girls Total
Post Graduate  yrs., mos. yrs., mos. yrs., mos.
Senior yrs., mos. yrs., mos. yrs., mos.
Junior yrs., mos. yrs., mos. yrs., mos.
Sophomore. yrs.,  mos. yrs., mos.|  yrs., mos.
Freshman yrs., mos. yrs., mos.| yrs., mos.

,  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
‘TABLE IV. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY CLASSES
AND COURSES.—DECEMBER,  .
‘ rr  
esel|  ES $s a
Class zes| gs ée
oa |
Boys  
Post Graduate Girls  
Boys  
Senior Girls|:  
Boys|  
Junior Girls!  
Boys  
Sophomore Girls}  
Boys|  
Freshman Girls|  
Boys|  
: Total Girls  
‘TABLE V. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS GRADUATED JUNE,  .

Course Boys Girls Total
College preparatory ...........  
‘Technical ......... ees  
Commercial ........... 
-General .........c.   ccvccvcceoee  

Total ........ wee eens  
TABLE VI. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS ENTERING SEPTEMBER,  .

oe Boys Girls Total

From Highland School..........  
From Joseph Metcalf School.....  
From Lawrence School..........  
From Morgan School........... From West Street School........  
-Others entering.........e ..  
otal       tence 

kKEPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE VII. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—DISTRIBUTION BY
GRADES.—DECEMBER,  .
Ss
Schools Ketn. ll Wl IV cial VeVI VIL VIN IX.) Total
Lawrence wewe we we we) 
East Dwight St. .. .. .. +.. ..  ..  
Elm St. .. .. .. +... 
Elmwood ..  we we we we) 
Ewingville IAD  we weke ke lt elk  
Hamilton St. .. .. .. ..  
Highland ..  
Ingleside -. ... 
Joseph Metcalf .. .. ..  
Kirtland .. ..  
Morgan .. ...  
Nonotuck St. ..  ... ... ... #..  
Park St. -.  ... .. ... .. 
Sargeant St.  ...  ... ... .. 
So. Chestnut St. .. .. +... ...  
Springdale .. ..  
West St.  
West Holyoke... Ol,  
Wm. Whiting .. ..  
Total  
TABLE VIII. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—NUMBER OF PU PILS GRADUATED JUNE,  .
. Boys Girls Total
Highland School ..............  
Joseph Metcalf School..........  
Lawrence School ..............  
Morgan School ...............  
West Street School............. ..-  
West Holyoke School........... oe:  
. Total ....  eceses  .
TABLE IX. NUMBER OF PUPILS IN GRADE IX AND
AVERAGE AGE SEPTEMBER,  |
Boys Girls ‘Total Average Age
Highland School ....... yrs. mos.
Joseph Metcalf School... yrs. mos.
Lawrence School ....... yrs. mos.
Morgan School ........ yrs. mos.
‘West Street School.....  yrs. mos.
Total ............  .

I
I
\
\
|
e REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
|
TABLE X. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—SIZE OF CLASSES.— |
DECEMBER  .
: (Kindergartens not included.)
Classes of
Classes of Two or Total Total
Single Grades more Grades ,
  pupils or less........ to pupils inclusive.  
More than pupils.....  
—— —— |
Total ............. |
TABLE XI. EVENING SCHOOLS—FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER,  .
Number of Average ;
Teachers Number of Number of Nightly .
including Pupils Pupils AttendPrincipals Enrolled Belonging ance
High and Vocational Schools  
Lawrence School .........  
* Morgan School ...........  
West Street Schdol........   ,
William Whiting School.... :
Total ........   ewer "
TABLE XII. NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED DECEMBER .
Superintendent of Schools ............. -- dU
Secretary to Superintendent..............e.ec- .- dl
ClerKS .....  eweee ew ewe twee cet re veces  
Attendance officers .........  eevee veses O
—  
Men Women Total
In Day Schools:
High School (including principal and |
ClerK) .....c cwweee weee ees  
Vocational School ............... ,
Elementary school principals who have
assistantS ........     wee 
Elementary school principals in charge
of classes  —(counted under teachers. )
Ninth grade teachers...............  
BFighth grade teachers.............. |
Seventh grade teachers.............  
Sixth grade teachers..............  
Fifth grade teachers.............. |
Fourth grade teachers..............  
Third grade teachers.............  
Second grade teachers.............+.  
First grade teachers................  
Mixed grade teachers (two or more
grades in roOm)............ 
Teachers of Special Classes.......... |
Ungraded school teachers...........  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Men Women Total
Kindergarten teachers:'.............  
. Supervisors and special teachers.....  
Total number of teachers in day schools  
In Evening Schools:
High and Vocational Schools.........  
. Elementary schools ................  
Total number of teachers in evening
Schools .........     ence   
Total number of teachers in day and
. evening schools ...............  
panbtOrs wre   etssess  
AtrOnBS .......      renee ene  
Total number of persons employed......  
TABLE XIII. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE STATISTICS FOR
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE .
——  
Es o.
elze »§  .
. SCHOOLS zee ZS  
es\n SS) gz Es os
Z em FE] 
: See] &@ i]  oO
  
High ........... +.-/  . 
East Dwight Street......  
Elm Street ............./  
Elmwood ..............-{  
Ewingville ............  
Hamilton Street ....... ar . 
Highland ..............{/ . 
Ingleside ..............  
Joseph Metcalf .........{  :
Kirtland ...............| . |/ 
Lawrence ..........- .-.  i|t 
Morgan ..........+.+.-.---{  
Nonotuck Street ........|]  )/ 
Park Street ............|   ,
Sargeant Street .........| . 
So. Chestnut Street...... Biol  . 
Springdale .............| . 
West Street .-........../  
West Holyoke .......... |  
William Whiting ........]  /| 
* Oo.
Evening Schools: Bi E
High and Vocational.... ./ .  ae
Lawrence ..............-| . 
Morgan ..............-..-|/ .  
West Street ............{  
William Whiting ........ 

 
. RE
P
re Oe fom) B
. re oO ses LI
.  So Cc
; Peery Soot SCH
San" se rens OUL
 rm  IN et ry) ry) ‘
a EeeSe Oe
. ao ese
) AES wes 
oe ie  cae
ana eo ON
Coe eo  fom) —o  So
 Oo rt Soe eo yO eo
o ses wo on
A, Ve)  o& eo  Pas oO ssVe) on
 aoe Oo  Ses SS  e
us ob rt exe woo re
oO peasoS SS a) bs
Oo moo wo SSSER |
mM fore) re a
 ned nO So Te
rs ox ao eeseegaes 
& Sao  Pov  oO a
fz) wt wt oe) ass oe aN “QQ 
a  Bey Bess senenies g
a Co  Ve) .
 et genccete Sense  alco seesecaes mee  
BG Saree LO oe eS
-  BESS rt 
me wo an eo §
om  te In A“  ot nl on on 
ae ly BOS y)  oO ie 
mo SON  Oe  
fx, ba oO ao  oS co  te ary  Ko te o
ae aN  a)
OwAf   nah No 
OC  SSES  SSR &
? me  OSS oO .
 BASES  ga
QA  coe ne @
ton.  SSésace as
  cot -, Sass ea  og IE De |F,
*  -&  hd no S|
zZ* aq co :  B
pb 
. ae   £s
“i Lio [as
: Ao 
Baek:*|s
ce   Chin: Sih: f
oe fob) ‘S bd of
 Sa bd   ex
& Buoy .? .?  .- .-  .- oo.
fa} —
aoe   
n    
o  Ens ae .
aq fa] bd  ba  
Pas “se  i:  bo oe
Scat: be bd  Py c
an   
Ha  
gags wes *& “to ct
s SEeeats  ppb  o
wo  be a}  ao ad bd Bz
s qo bs wy   bea
o +Owo r-  o
TL Fé
Fens wees  B:i : oe Bit: .
este  "Oe  
i Ie yee fod son E
  Bass ce ole .-  bd .e ag
acess eos  —,  bd
PEPETE  "Een Ld  FE
BEZgEs eg eS lgigbl)  
g ea BE: ..    ‘Os a]
S  Beg  to ex
SEayE ook|B
eeiiees iy cated
crer : we
ep d! Pe 
olan peaeies Ta
‘o) Sas Le Qa
Sk Be ass “
Fog as o
eas  fas
z  
i 
o
s

|
fvVWsOOQlC

a
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE II. THE HIGH SCHOOL.
Expenditure Number of
For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ending not including including Number MemberJune Supervisors Principal Enrolled ship
     
*In previous years teachers of manual training and sewing were included as regular
teachers.
: TABLE III. THE NINE GRADES.
Expenditure Number of
For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ending not including including Number MemberJune Supervisors Principal Enrolled ship
     . 
TABLE IV. THE KINDERGARTENS.
For Year Total Average
Ending Expenditure Number of Number MemberJune for Teachers Teachers Enrolled ship
 . 
   
TABLE V. THE EVENING HIGH AND VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
gf [\ Clues
£  S. Seite :
a EF EE OSEBS 
ee ke Es gs  ce Dates :
oc be be  Co-& Go vseaw
fea fa)  SR Zi Zi  Rn Som\ .
       

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VI. THE EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. |
  |
Se.
  OSes
. Bs o£ beck
  be St be abso
ge. ge Sage
.oe an  BSE BS
PASE. SB) rAS| EZ Sam
        
TABLE VII. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES IN
HIGH SCHOOL AND GRADES.
$i lelelelelclslBlles/  fe || HUGG !
| |
Dec. maa ae /  
| )
Dec.  |/  
Dec. soayese  |/ (/ 
Dec. isfnarn  )/ )|  
en NN OO
TABLE VIII. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE
EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Dec.  Dec.  Dec. 
. ae a] tw ee)  to
won LL Ba Bn] |B
an ix 
High and Vocational.|  
Lawrence .........]|  
Morgan ...........|  
West Street .......]  
William Whiting....]  
Totals .........  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  I

TABLE IX. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE

DAY SCHOOLS.

Dec.  Dec.  Dec. 

. SCHOOLS Ee  eg ae y

&  cw &

mE ze? ee] ce* FE ze*
High .............] 
Vocational ........  

E. Dwight St.......  
Elm St. ...........]   
Elmwood .........} 
Ewingville ........  
Hamilton St. ......|   
Highland .........]   
Ingleside .........  
Joseph Metcalf ....  
Kirtland ..........| 
Lawrence .........|  

Morgan ...........| 

Nonotuck St. ......]  
Park St. ..........|  
Sargeant St. .......] 
So. Chestnut St.....|  
Springdale ........]  
West St. ..........]  
West Holyoke .....  
William Whiting ...|  
Totals .........  

  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS .
TABLE X. AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUPILS PER TEACHER
IN THE GRADES BASED UPON AVERAGE MEMBERSHIP FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER.
 
Average number of pupils per teacher,
including all principals...........  
Average number of pupils per teacher,
not including principals who have
assistantS ..........Sdt  
|
UNDER (E) MISCELLANEOUS.
TABLE I. RESIGNATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS—DAY
SCHOOL TEACHERS.
Resignations.
Mae E. Alderman Nora B. Healy
M. Elizabeth Bowe Lucy A. Hifle
Jennie E. Collingwood Donald Mackenzie
Katherine V. Connor Edwin M. Roberts
Katherine C. Conway Mary M. Rohan
Laurence F. Dowd Carolyn M. Swiney
Mary J. F. Gorman John C. Varney
Appointments.
Helen C. Burke ‘Daniel J. Kelly
Rufus W. Clement Edwin J. Keough
Catherine C. Curran Edwin C. Knapp
Mary C. Daly Howard Mitchell
Grace W. Davis Rose G. O’Neill
Flora H. Dougherty Leila Osborne
Lillian M. Grant Ella M. Payne
Arnold G. Grover Florence E. Redington
Grace L. Heinritz Mary F. Riley
Eric G. Johnson Gorden E. Toby
Harry D. Wilcox
Leave of Absence.
Eva Curley Agnes E. Rohan
Susan M. Mayo Mrs. Ellen M. Wellington

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  TABLE II. SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
a SesesTTOOCt™*™*#™S
re be EE te BO
SCHOOL &e oe or 
ai|   
an bg 
High Et Tievetone  |$  
Lawrence  |Red brick |  
Carlton St.  Red brick} 
E. Dwight St.  Red brick| 
Elm St.  Red brick|  
Elmwood  |Red brick| 
Ewingville  |Red brick]  
Hamilton St.  Red brick|  
Highland oh Light brick.   
Ingleside Lt. prick |  
) Jos. Metcalf  benaNone |  
Kirtland  |Red brick|  
Lyman  t.  |Red brick)  
Morgan  |Red brick| 
Nonotuck St.  Red brick|  
Park St.  |/Red brick|  
Sargeant St.  |Red brick|  
Smiths Ferry Red brick| Chest’t St.  Red brick|  
Springdale  |Red brick) 
West St.  Bightbrick.   
W. Holyoke Hates 
Wm. Whiting  Red brick!   

|
|
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE III. RATES OF TUITION FOR NON-RESIDENT
PUPILS.
High School ...............- .-s-.  per year
Elementary Schools .............. es per year
Evening Vocational School................. per year
Payable half-yearly in advance.
Evening High School—determined by the Committee.
TABLE IV. SCHOOL CHILDREN’S AID FUND. '
The following table shows the yearly Thanksgiving offering
of the children of the public schools. The money is spent for
clothing for needy children.
Year Amount Year Amount
   
 |
 .    ——
Total to date 
TABLE V. VALUE OF ART AND SCIENCE COLLECTIONS.
No. of Volumes in
School Art Science Reference Library
High .............. 
East Dwight St.....  
Elm St. ...........  
Elmwood ..........  
Ewingville .........  
Hamilton St. .......  
Highland ..........  
Ingleside ...........  
Joseph Metcalf ......  
Kirtland ...........  
Lawrence ..........  
" Morgan ........+. ..  
Nonotuck St. .......  
South Chestnut St....  
Springdale .........  
West St. ........ -.  
West Holyoke ......  
William Whiting ....  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
ee
IN MEMORIAM.
KATHERINE A. GLASHEEN.
Appointed teacher in the Holyoke Public Schools
January list,  .
Died November  th,  .
THOMAS W. DOYLE.
Appointed attendance officer for the Holyoke Public Schools
January  th,  .
Died July  th,  .
Resolutions Adopted by the School Committee.
WHEREAS it has pleased Almighty God, in His infinite
wisdom, to recall to His fold our esteemed friend and fellowworker,
THOMAS W. DOYLE,
and
WHEREAS we members of this Committee feel with keenest
sorrow the loss of splendid citizen, who gave long years of devoted service to the schools of our city; be it
RESOLVED that we humbly submit, as tribute of love and
appreciation, this recognition of his most exemplary character.
Kind and loyal, with love of God and love of man deep in his
heart, we look upon him as man who, living, brought honor to
himself and his family, to his friends and his city, and who, departing, left the memory of work well done and good deeds nobly
performed; and be it further
RESOLVED that this, our testimony to the grief that is in
our hearts, be written in our records, made known to the family
of the deceased, and placed on printed page.
EDWIN D. WELLS,
MAURICE G. DONAHUE,
TERENCE O’DONNELL,
Committee on Resolutions.
Se

PART VI.
Report of Attendance Officers

To the School Committee of Holyoke: |

The report of the attendance officers for the school year
ending June  th,  is herewith submitted. It is the |
thirty-ninth annual report of this department.

On July  th of the past year the department suffered
a loss in the death of Mr. Thomas W. Doyle who had served
with honor and distinction for nearly thirty-six years.

In September the Committee on Attendance, Census and
Truaney appointed fourteen men to take the school census.
This was new departure inasmuch as seven enumerators
were usually engaged to do this work every year. The experiment proved success as the fourteen enumerators, two
in each ward, were able to reach every:section of the city in
time to prevent serious losses or confusion in the nature of |
removals from one ward to another. The total number of .
children over five and under fifteen years of age was  |
that is more than the number reported in  The
census was taken more rapidly and with greater accuracy :
than in the previous year. In the matter of expense, it cost
about  less than the census of  We would recommend continuance of this system.

The new laws, relative to child labor, school attendance
and employment of minors, that went into effect September
Ist,  carried with them certain hardships for some of
the families of this city. Holyoke, like other industrial cities
of the state, was particularly affeeted. Children fourteen
and fifteen years of age, profitably employed, suddenly
found this employment denied them, because of the inability
of employers immediately to conform with the requirements
of the eight-hour law. This foreed several hundred children
into the streets, and in turn forced this department beyond
its capacity in its endeavors to return them to school or to

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
find legal employment for them. These laws also placed on
this department the responsibility of looking after all children engaged in street trades, whereas previously only a
small percentage of them came under our supervision. Matters were adjusted in short time, however, and the new
laws were enforced in an effective manner. In general they
are very satisfactory in their operation. This department is
grateful to the employers in this city, who assisted in putting
the new laws into effect.

On September Ist,  it became necessary to begin
the issuing of working certificates of various kinds to every
employed minor in the city. This was due to the new legislation which invalidated every existing working certificate
in the commonwealth. The amount of work involved made
it impossible for us to handle it in conjunction with our
other dutes. Your honorable Board met this situation y
appointing clerk for the issuing of these certificates. You
will readily see how necessary this was when you understand
that through change in employment from one to dozen
certificates may be issued in the course of year to every
employed minor. Under the old laws one certificate held
good during the minority of child. From October Ist,  ,
up to the close of business January Ist,  there have been
issued from this office certificates of all kinds besides
duplicates of many already issued.

The attendance officers present below schedule of
visits which they make to the various publie and private
schools of the city in the performance of their duties. In
connection with his work as schoolhouse agent, Mr. Edouard
Cadieux devotes part of his time to the schools indicated.

SCHEDULE OF VISITS.
Thomas E. Gallagher.

School Visit School Visit
West Street........Every day St. Jerome.........Every day
E. Dwight Street....Every day Notre Dame........Every day
Holy Rosary........Every day Perpetual Help.....Every day
Im. Conception.....Every day Highland ..........Upon call
Ewinegville .........Uponcall Nonotuck St........Upon call

|
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Thomas H. Finn.
School Visit School Visit
Precious Blood.....Every day Metcalf ...........Upon call
Park Street........Every day Elmwood ..........Upon call
Hamilton St........Every day Springdale .........Upon call
Sargeant St........Every day Ingleside ..........Upon call
Morgan ...........Every day High ..............Upon call
Sacred Heart....Twice week Vocational ......Twice week
Edouard Cadieux (part time). |
. School Visit School Visit |
Elm St............Every day Mater Dolorosa. .Twice week |
Whiting ...........Every day So. Chestnut St.....Every day
Lawrence .........Every day Kirtland .......Twicea week
The West Holyoke School will be visited when special call |
is sent to the office.
Schools marked “Upon call’? must be visited once week, |
and additionally as often as the principal requests. .
The first three tables which follow give figures relating
to school census, children seven to fourteen years of ag:,
and the school population in September,  .
TABLE I. SCHOOL CENSUS. |
Wards Total
Sept.  .....  
sept. .....  
: |
Net gain in over  ..............c ue  
| |
This table shows that the number of children in the city |
mm September,  five years of age and over up to fifteen !
years of age, was  The number of children in the |
city seven years of age and over up to fourteen years of age, |
that is, within the compulsory school attendance age, was
 as shown in the following table: |
' TABLE II. CHILDREN WITHIN COMPULSORY SCHOOL
ATTENDANCE AGE.
Wards Total
Sept. Boys  
pt. Girls  
Total boys and girls seven to fourteen years of age.. |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE III. SCHOOL POPULATION  .
Pupils attending public schools .................. ..  
Pupils attending St. Jerome Schools................  
Pupils attending Precious Blood School .............  
Pupils attending Sacred Heart Schools ..............  
Pupils attending Perpetual Help School..............  
Pupils attending Holy Rosary School................  
Pupils attending Immaculate Conception School.......  
Pupils attending Mater Dolorosa School.............  
Pupils attending Mt. St. Vincent School.............  
Pupils attending Holy Family Institute .............  
Pupils attending other private schools ..............  
Total school population of the city September,  
TABLE IV. ABSENTEES REPORTED.
TD TNT NIN Opole)!
rm re rm on rm mam rm rm om} rm
ao oO ao oO oO oO mp) mp)
rm San ro Soe ro rod re mam rm -—
Schools  
efor} fy orl rt el lads] oe]  
ale |/e z/e\ad} )/ )/  |] Rl] al] &
alolzlalgigisiisié
William Whiting.|  
Lawrence .......  
Elm St. ........ |  
So. Chestnut St..]|   
Nonotuck St. ....  
Highland .......
Park St. .......]/  
Hamilton St. ....]  
Sargeant St. ..../  
West St. .......{  
Springdale .....  
Elmwood .......  
Morgan ........|  
Kirtland .......].
East Dwight St.../   
Ewinegville ......
Ingleside .......  
St. Jerome .....]   
Precious Blood... /  
Sacred Heart....|   
Perpetual Help..}   
Holy Rosary.....}  
Im. Conception..|   
Mater Dolorosa.  
Joseph Metcalf...  
Total ....... s]o s|s /s 
ae

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
)
TABLE V. PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
: QQ NINITN Oo] oO oo;OD OD
re  to} to} rr to mm vq
[ p) fr] oO  oO Oo
 te re re om!  re om! rm om
Schools os .| $
eizie|d e) igikia/elé
( fe] ®
nlolzlAlSinisiaig  
t
William Whiting.|  
Lawrence ......  
Elm St. ........  
So. Chestnut St...|  
Nonotuck St. ....  
Highland .......
Park St. .......]  
Hamilton St. ....]  
Sargeant St. ..../  
West St. .......]  
Springdale ......  
Elmwood .......  
Morgan ........{  
Kirtland .......
East Dwight St..}]  
Ewingville ......
Ingleside ....... |
. St. Jerome .....]  
Precious Blood ..|   |
Sacred Heart ..../  
Perpetual Help..|/   
Holy Rosary.....|  
Im. Conception... 
Mater Dolorosa..|   
Joseph Metcalf...  
| |
Total ........ peeisse    
| |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE VI. ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
a ix wn IC ian Cc ic cae Cn ca
ra tn rt  ta tome ame] ra te re
[ p) an p) oO [] oO [p] (p) r) p)
Sa re re  Sao] re  om re rm mead
Schools lo $
ale /slal/ )/s )/ B) a) &
gis lsiagleiglsiisié 
William Whiting.|  
Lawrence ......  
Elm St. ........  
St. Chestnut St... 
Nonotuck St. ....
Highland .......
Park St. ........  
Hamilton St. ....  
Sargeant St. ....  
West St. .......  
‘Springdale ......
Elmwood .......
Morgan ........  
Kirtland .......
East Dwight St..  
Ewingville ......
Ingleside .......
St. Jerome ......  
Precious Blood...  
Sacred Heart....  
Perpetual Help...  
Holy Rosary.....  
Im. Conception...  i)
Mater Dolorosa...  
Joseph Metcalf...  
Total ....... f) n| ze]  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VII. TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
  CUS
  |/  |€ |e.) §
  ge |) aS Ba fa,
Schools Ea BT ess
d o£ £§  
:  EF]  eF s
B  &

. William Whiting,  
Lawrence ...... 
Elm St. ........  
St. Chestnut St...  
Nonotuck St. ...

Highland ......

Park St. .......  

Hamilton St. ...  

Sargeant St. ....  

West St. .......  

Springdale .....

Elmwood ......  

Morgan ........  

Kirtland .......  

East Dwight St..  

Ewinegville .....

Ingleside .......

St. Jerome .....  

Precious Blood..  

Sacred Heart....  

Perpetual Help..  

Holy Rosary....  

Im. Conception.  

Mater Dolorosa..  

Joseph Metcalf..  
Total neve |  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  .
TABLE VIII. RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE STREETS.
N nA a) or) er Se) er on o
r Soma rt re rm re S|  rm
f  f) ao oO oO oe Oe fo)
rm to  toe re oe! re om!  rm ome
; |] as 
eaislre lol glalae] hl as |e
iS ro C] .
aAloizlalslalaidials!
William Whiting.| 
Elm St. ........ |:  
Sargeant St. ....  ];  .
Park St. ....... .
Morgan ........ .
West St. .......  
East Dwight St...|  
Precious Blood...  
Sacred Heart....  
St. Jerome ....../|  
Perpetual Help...  
Im. Conception...  
Mater Dolorosa..|  
“Tom telalalalelelslalelelas
Total verses  ;/ /]  |!  |] }]  
|
TABLE IX. AGGREGATES.
  |g  
sa -|  
| GHB Wind Gl Bid
—) os Ed] ge as
  at &f
Sept.,  
Oct.,  
Nov., );  
Dec.,  }; 
Jan.,  
Feb.,  
March,  
April,  
May, 
June, .
as Os a
Total ...  
aetd ed ed

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TABLE X. AGE AND SCHOOLING CERTIFICATES ISSUED.
aos €f os §& DB F
Sse PBZ BEB

Boys.

  to  ...  

. to  ...  

  to  ...  

  to  ...  

Total .......  
Girls. '

  #xXto  ...  

  to  ...  

  to  ...  

  to ...  

Total .......  .

TABLE XI. AGE AND SCHOOLING CERTIFICATES REFUSED.

Bos go  Bb F

sz gs tdzeiizzes

Boys.

  to  ...   to ... to  ...   to  ...  
Total .......  
Girls.
  to  ...   to  ...   to  ...   to  ...  
Total ....... 

Tables and XI date from September to September .

From September to June there were .
thirteen summonses served for eases of truancy. There
Were seven bovs committeed to the Traming School .in
Springfield, while the other six boys were placed on probation by order of the court. At this time six boys from this
eity are at the Hampden County Training School.

Respectfully subnutted,
THOMAS E. GALLAGHER,
THOMAS H. FINN,
Attendance Officers.

PART VII.
 
Organization --- January,  
DAY SCHOOLS.
a i) eo 
£ s. FES EES
School Teachers SES) 
n s
High: |
Howard Conant, Prin.........  lo  
Arthur J. McDonald..........|  
Lillian W. Fay...............|  
Mary Adele Allen............|  
A. Esther Barry..............| |
Allee Brown.  s.  
Russell C. Brown............. |
Rufus W. Clement............}] |
Jason O. Cook...............]  
Helen B. Cronin.............  
Margaret T. Delaney..........}]  
Margaret E. Dixon.......-....|  
Jason T. Draper..............{  
Clyde B. Edgeworth..........|  
Annie L. Gilligan.............}  
George D. Hearn.............{  
A. Omer Hebert..............]  
Mrs. Theodora A. Hooker......|  
Clara M. Ingraham...........  
Mabel L. Judd...............]  
Edwin J. Keough.............  
Anna M. Laporte.............}  
Eileen McCormick (Sub.)......
Thomas J. McCoy.............}]  
Sarah H. McGrath............  
Howard Mitchell.............]  
Bertha Morgan..............-.-|  
Murtach M. S. Moriarty........}|  
Charlotte Norris..............|  
Margaret M. Powers..........|  
Mary F. Riley..............-.  
Madeline L. Slade............  
Lena W. Slotnick.............  
Amelia M. Stapleton..........}| |
Harry D. Wilcox..............{  
Ida A. St. Martin, Clerk...... |
| |

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
 S
rs] Pa es U
  fe gee
School Teachers Grade  SES] |oxg
v 
a OO -Technical: |
Howard Conant, Prin.........
Wm. H. Whitmey.............
Eric G. Johnson..............
Edwin C. Knapp..............
Arthur J. McDonald..........
Chester B. Park..............
Vocational:
Wm. H. Whitney, Director..... 
Eric G. Johmson..............
Edwin C. Knapp.............
Eileen McCormick (Sub.).....
Arthur J. McDonald........... .
Chester B. Park..............
Daniel J. Kelly...............
East Dwight St.:
Mary E. Hussey, Prin.........] 
Della V. Flynn.............V 
Agnes Dowdall............-V|  
Claire E. O’Neill........... Vi}  
Antoinette E. Charest.......III]/  
Abbe G. Sullivan............II}  
Mrs. Katherine T. Morris.....I| 
Cora E. McKillop (Sub.)......I 
Elm St.:
Mary E. Lawley, Prin.........] ,
Mary M. Doyle.............VWI} 
A. Belle Smith.............Vi 
Agnes G. O’Connor......... .
Nora E. Doyle............. Vj  
Estelle M. Curley........... V}  
E. Teresa McIntee..........III {|  
Helen F. Greaney..........III   
Carrie L. Alderman.........II  
Mary V. Herbert..........I-II}  
Emma M. Wilson...........-I| 
Katherine S. Keough.........I}  
Caroline E. Meacham.....Kgtn  
Elizabeth C. Burke.......Kgtn  
Elmwood:
Annie L. Stansfield, Prin.......  
Ruth L. Porterfield......... V{j  
Lena I. Spamer...........-.-IV| 
Lillian M. Chapman........III  
Emma B. Ingraham........III}  
Katherine T. Chapin........III  
Margaret A. McHugh........II  
Elizabeth M. Foley..........IlI 

, REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
r] ov; Os D
£ e) Fee  
School Teachers Grade ES |
  o
fx). fy
, Edith M. Bartlett...........II]}  
Anna M. Kidnay.............I}  
Elizabeth A. Howard.........I}  
Julia R. Sheehan............I}  
Ida M. Ingraham.........Kgtn}  
Jane R. Canavan.........Kgtn]  
Ewingville: .
Mary A. Lynn, Prin.........Il   
Helena A. Shine.............  
Hamilton St.:
Jennie E. Scolley, Prin......../  
Katherine R. Warren.......VI 
Hannah V. O’Brien.........VI  
. Grace G. Callahan (Sub.).....V 
Ellen A. Kirkpatrick....:....Vj  ]/ 
Lillian M. Grant...........I V/ 
Ellen M. Ahern............I II)/ 
Elizabeth M. Feeney........III   
Helen H. Ramage...........II}|  
Alice G. Collopy............HI/  
Katherine C. Scully..........   
Nora G. Linehan.............I   
Eleanor P. O’Grady.......Kgtn|  
Alice M. Cleary..........Kgtn] |
Highland:
John A. Callahan, Prin........{  
Katherine G. Shine......... X|  
Mary T. O’Donnell..........TX|  
Catherine A. Callahan.....VIII  
Lucy B. Ramage.......... VIII 
Ella L. Smith............VIII 
Mary J. Brainard..........VII{|  
Mary E. Dooley...........VII  
Jennie A. E. Curley.........VI   
Mary C. Shine..............V|  
M. Gertrude Moriarty.......IVj} 
Sara W. Brennan...........J]II}  
Katherine G. Sears..........Il 
J. Reeve Lynn...............-I| 
Mary H. Batchelder.......Kgtn}) 
A. Charlotte Leavitt......Kgtn|  
Grace W. Davis...........Asst}  
Teresa C. Mackey (Sub.)...Asst
Ingleside:
B. Frances Donahue, Prin......
V-VI-VII   
Agnes J. Donoghue......III-IV  
Katherine C. Flood........I-II| 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
  '
aa:By BES
School Teachers Grade ES  §
ua &
Quy
Joseph Metcalf: |
Michael J. Greaney, Prin......|  
Mary W. Greeley........... X|  
Mary V. Casey............. X|  
M. Clara Cleveland........VIII   ,
Katherine R. Burke.......VIII| 
Alice H. Griffis............VII}  
Elsie M. Wing............VII|  
Eva C. Moynihan...........VI}/ ]|  
Alice M. Donoghue.........VI 
Anna M. Dalton............VI 
Grace L. Heinritz...........V  
Alice A. Moss..............V}  
Mary T. Canavan...........V}|  
Kirtland: .
Katharine A. Mahoney, Prin...|  
Annie E. Gaynor......VII-VIII  
Claire E. Nugent...........VIj   
Margaret M. Bradley........V}  
Agnes G. Seully............ V}  
Elizabeth J. Markham......III 
M. Georgie Eaton...........II|  {| 
Margaret G. Connor..........I}  ); 
Nellie A. Perry..........Kgtn|  
Leila Osborne............Kgtn  
| Margaret I. Hogan (Sub.)..Asst
Lawrence:
J. Harry Kennedy, Prin.......|  
Mary E. McManus..........IX 
Mary C. McTigue..........-.IX/ 
Josephine McDonnell.......IX  
Janet L. Somers..........VIII   
Mabel E. Waters..........VIII 
Elizabeth A. Arnold.......VIITI  |;  
Emma G. Scolley..........VWII|  
Rose G. O'’Neill............VII 
Jennie B. Cassidy.........VII|  
Isabel M. Stokes............VI   
Delia A. Moriarty...........V]  
Morgan: |
Wm. E. Judd, Prin...........{]  
Agnes M. Kelliher..........  
Ellen C. Pratt.............   
Clara H. Buckley.........VIII  
Mary A. Donoghue........VIII}  
Lillian W. Murphy.........VII|  
Rose M. Donovan..........VII  
Katherine G. Gilligan..... Vir 

t
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
g  
t eS §es
School Teachers Grade bes SSE th
&  os
a vi
Marie H. Eckart...........VIi   
Bertha J. Moody...........VI   
Margaret G. Haley..........V  
Anne Halfpenny............V  
; Mabel C. Teahan...........IV}  
Agnes C. Flood............ Vj  
Harriet B. Grant...........III}  
Mary A. Donoghue..........II|  
Josie E. Healy.............. ]/ 
Nonotuck St.:
Mrs. Sara E. Wilcoxen, Prin...|  
. Theresa L. Coffey...........VI  
Mary L. Teahan..........V-VI}  
Emma M. Swindt............V/  ]/  
Rose P. Whitney...........I V;}  
Florence E. Redington.. .III-IV  
Katherine E. Shea..........III|/ ]| 
Annie N. Miller.............II/  |]  
Elizabeth M. Dalton..........I}  
Mary A. Kennedy............I|   
Park St.: .
Emily L. Curran, Prin........|  
Annie F. Downing..........  
Ella G. Prouty.............  
Katherine M. Kennelly......III 
Teresa L. Dowd............III] 
Katherine M. McCarthy......Il 
‘Margaret I. Corrigan........IlI  
Katherine G. Coughlin.......I 
Anna M. Warren......:.....I  
Sargeant St.:
Katherine M. Holmes, Prin....| ;
Elizabeth M. Bigelow........V  
M. Ethel McTearnen........  
Katherine E. Browne.......III  
Catherine C. Curran.........Il   
Mary A. Lynch..............   
Elizabeth Cowie............-I}  
Catherine E. Paul........Kgtn| 
Flora H. Dougherty......Kgtn  
South Chestnut St.:
Elizabeth M. O’Neill, Prin.....}|  
Louise F. Heinritz..........VI  
Josephine Gorman...........V| 
Anna B. Fitzgerald.........I  
Helen T. Kennedy (Sub.) .ITI-IV   
Mary C. Murphy...........-III| 
Teresa Conway............--II| 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
 O. Oe  ,
: Bga| Fee Eze
School Teachers Grade  Es oS 
un cF B
Ella M. Shea... ..-e.s .e.-   
Elizabeth A. Chapin..........I  
Catherine E. Seully.  
Ada G. Ingraham.........Kgtn  
Helen V. Connor.........Kgtn| |
Springdale:
Agnes C. Kelley, Prin.........}  
Mary E. Casey........VII-VIII   
Annie F. Sheehan..........VI} 
Margaret E. Ryan..........V{/  
Grace A. O’Neill........... V}  
Rose G. Herlihy............I TT/  
Nellie A. Lynch............. 
Teresa V. Tucker............ ]! 
Frances M. Gilday........Kgtn  
Elizabeth M. Shine.......Kgtn|  
West St.:
John J. Lynch, Prin..........|  
Mary L. Bowler...........IUX|  
Lillian E. Kelly..........VIII}|  
Abbie L. Lynch...........VII|  
Mrs. Joanna R. McMahon... ‘V   
Catherine G. Nutley........VI  
Ellen K. McCarthy..........Vj/   
Audry V. Delaney..........IVj| 
Mary A. Brown............IV| 
Anna J. Moynihan..........IIl 
Ella M. Payne.............III  
Sarah E. Hayward..........Il  
Josie A. Moriarty...........II  
Katherine E. Leary..........I |]  
Laura G. Connop............I| ]{  
Mary H. Power..........Kgtn|  {] 
Pearl S. Rang iley Spec  
Margaret G. Riley......Special  
West Holyoke: |
Matthew S. Herbert.......I-IX| 
William Whiting: |
Esther M. Greeley, Prin....... |
Anna M. Casey............WII| {| 
Septa F. Lynn.............VI]}| 
Mrs. Ellen M. Wellington.....V|  
Ellen M. Doyle.............V|  
Johanna V. Leahy..........I V|  
Katherine A. O’Neill........IIT|  
Eleanor E. Lyons..........  
Ella I. Healy..............-II]/   
Mary C. Daly..............- |]  
Mrs. Katherine Dillon........I |]  
Kathryn U. Lynch........Ketn|  
Grace A, Sullivan........Kgtn  
Eva C. Greaney........Special|  {|  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS.

Manual Training: Salary

Wm. H. Whitney, Supervisor................... 

(Also Director of Vocational Work. )

Chester B. Park, Assistant................  

Arnold G. Grover, Assistant...........     

Gorden E. Toby, Assistant.................  

Helen G. Burke, Assistant...........cc .  
Household Arts:

Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins, Supervisor............  

Rose C. Lynes, Assistant.............      

Ruth Canavan, AssiStant...............  
Drawing:

Mrs. Isabelle H. Ferry, Supervisor..............  

Mrs. Rose A. Dougherty, Assistant..............  

Grace D. Lynn, Assistant............... 
Writing:

Esther A. MacDonnell, Supervisor...............  
Music:

Hugh Craig, Supervisor...............  ee:  

Margaret F. McCarthy, Assistant................  

Harvey F. Morr'll, Director of Orchestra, each rehearsal .........  eeew tetet   eens  

Health and Physical Education:

Daniel J. Kelly, Supervisor............. 

  REPORT OF THE PuBLIC SCHOOLS
EVENING SCHOOLS. ,
gg ee
oo  ee
i E| ge fs es
School Teachers  ev ES Og
ae || S|  ge
High: |
Patrick J. Garvey, Prin......   
Oliver H. Bourque...........{ |
Laurence F. Forward........|  
Mary V. McCarthy..........]  
Clyde B. Edgeworth.........]  
Mary E. Cleary.............]  
Katherine Gear.............]  
Madeline L. Slade...........]  
Margaret Sullivan...........]  
Agnes M. Dunn.............]|  
Russell C. Brown............]  
Edwin J. Keough............]  
Dr. J. de la Neuville........./]  
; Chas. W. Rieser.............]  
A. Omer Hebert.............]  
Geo. D. Hearn..............]  
Vocational:
Patrick J. Garvey, Prin......]  
Eric G. Johnson.............|  
Frank H. McTigue...........}  
Edwin C. Knapp............|  
George Brien...............|  
S. Roy Whitney.............]  
Geo. M. Prentice, Jr.........| |
Geo. D. Hearn..............|  
Chas. W. Rieser.............]  
Frank M. O’Neill............]  
Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins.....]|  
Alice Fenton...............]  
Mrs. Alice M. Davis..........]  
Agnes Kidnay...............]  
Helen Taylor...............]  
Mrs. Theodora A. Hooker.....]  
Lawrence: |
Wm. E. Judd, Prin..........]  :
Lillian W. Murphy..........]  
James Meikleham...........]  
Bernice Mahoney............|  
Margaret G. Riley...........]  
Effie Hayton................]  
Lula McFaul..............-.-|  
Johanna V. Leahy...........]  
Anna M. Haley..............]  
Grace G, Callahan...........] |
Winifred Glasheen.......... "| |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
| Sx  
ce £]  n) Fe zs
School Teachers Bs  ES os  §
ge  ez
Morgan: |
Michael J. Greaney, Prin.....{|  
Lillian M. Grant............{ |
Hazel C. Walsh.............]  
Eva C. Moynihan............]  
J. Geo. Gottsman............]  
E. Teresa McIntee...........]  
Anna Leary................|]  
Dorothy Dunn..............{  
Bride C. Herbert............]  
Agnes G. Scully.............]  
Flora Grandchamp...........|  
Agnes J. Donoghue........../ |
Eleanor E. Lyons...........}  
Agnes M. Cadieux...........]  
Margaret Bradley.........../  
’ Margaret Hogan.............|  
Mary V. Herbert............]  
Cora E. McKillop............]  
Anna Falvey................,  
Teresa C. Mackey............]  
Evelyn E. Connor...........;  
Katherine C. Sullivan......../]  
Mrs. Mary Kostenbader......|  
West St.:
Arthur J. McDonald, Prin....|   
Anna L. Cleary.............]  
Edward Burke..............;|  
Bridget C. Shea.............]  
Marion Potvin..............]  
Abbie Williams.............]  
Julia Collopy...............]  
Alice Gillis.................]  
Mary L. Herbert............|  
M. Agnes Moynihan..........|  
Mae F. Moriarty.............|  
Mary C. Daly..............-]  
Helen G. Burke.............]  
William Whiting:
J. Harry Kennedy, Prin......|   
Anna M. Casey............-.-]  
Mary J. O’Connell...........| :
Alice G. Baker..............]  
Francis Gilligan.............]  rs. Mary Zelinsky..........]  
Rose P. Whitney............]  
Isabelle U’Connor............] |
nr

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
te oe Efe] 
School Teachers ss cES o§ O§
ric} rps)
Ui fe  O. 
Mrs. Katherine Dillon........]  
Elizabeth B. Donahue........j}  
Margaret G. Connor.........]  
Nellie A. Lynch.............]  
Mrs. Millie Burgess..........]  
Ruth Camavan..............]  
Genevieve Gibson............]  
JANITORS AND MATRONS.
Salaries
High Wm. E. Kennedy............. 
Edward Rourke..............  
Jas. F. Walsh................  
Daniel J. Kennedy, Fireman.... ,
John Kennedy, Helper.........  
Mrs. Mary Moynahan, Matron... |
East Dwight St. Wm. A. Moore............... |
Elm St. Llewellyn J. Lannon..........  
Elmwood Frederick P. Brown........... )
Ewingville Bartholomew F. Griffin........  
Hamilton St. Frank J. Schirch.............  
Highland John Ahern...........  
Ingleside Jeremiah F. Leary............  
Joseph Metcalf Edw. W. Bresnahan...........  
Kirtland Wm. J. Morrison.............  
Lawrence John M. Hanley..............  
Morgan Chas. R. Moreau..............  
Nonotuck St. Thomas O’Connor.............  
Park St. James Walsh................  
Sargeant St. Cornelius J. Donoghue.........  
South Chestnut St. James Gilhooley..............  
Springdale Jos. A. Gadbois...............  
West St. John J. Moriarty.............  
West Holyoke Annie Keyes..............  
William Whiting Patrick F. Lynch.............  
Mrs. Bridget T. Clifford, Matron  
Summer  
Spare Michael J. Moriarty...........  
James Gage.......... .c    
Office Building Wm. B. Rogers...............  
OFFICE.
Supt. of Schools Francis McSherry............. 
Sec. to Superintendent Mary J. Callahan.............  
Clerks Agnes M. Cadieux............  
Frances L. Callahan...........  
Attendance Officers Thos. E. Gallagher..;..........  
Thos. H. Finn...............  
Schoolhouse Agent Edouard Cadieux.............  

PART VIII.
Authorized Text Books
The following lists comprise all text books adopted by
the School Committee for use in the various schools:
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
GRADE I. .
Beginner’s Primer
Sunbonnet Babies’ Primer
Wide Awake Primer
Rose Primer
Cyr Primer
Cyr First Reader
Child Life Primer
Child Life First Reader
Aldine Primer .
Aldine First Reader
Art Literature Primer
Art Literature Book One
Baker Carpenter Primer
Baker Carpenter First Year Language Reader
Stepping Stones to Literature First Reader
New Edueation Book One
Baldwin First Year Reader
Silver Burdett First Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book One
Action, Imitation and Fun Series: .
The Little Red Hen
The Three Pigs
The Three Bears
Three Little Kittens—Chieken Little
Red Riding Hood—The Seven Kids
Bow-Wow and Mew-Mew
Puss in Boots—Reynard the Fox
Jack the Giant-Killer
Hop o’ My Thumb—Tom Thumb
Jack and the Bean Stalk and Other Tales

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
GRADE II.
Aldine Second Reader
Cyr Second Reader
Child Life Second Reader
Stepping Stones to Literature Second Reader
New Education Book Two
Baldwin Second Year Reader
Silver-Burdett Second Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Two
Baker Carpenter Second Year Language Reader |
Art Literature Book Two ,
Seudder’s Fables and Folk Stories
Beckwith’s In Mythland, Vol.  .
Baldwin’s Robinson Crusoe
Smith’s Eskimo Stories
Carroll’s Around the World Book One
. Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Tw,
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book II.
GRADE III.
Williams Choice Literature
New Edueation Book Three
Baldwin Third Year Reader
Silver-Burdett Third Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Three
Art Literature Book Three
Baker Carpenter Third Year Language Reader
Baldwin’s Old Greek Stories
Longfellow’s Selections
Andrews’ Seven Little Sisters
Shaw’s Big People and Little People of Other Lands
Pratt’s Stories of Colonial Children
Wilson’s History Reader for Elementary Schools
Rafter’s City and Town
. Aldine First Language Book )
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetie Book Three
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book ITI.
American Musie Reader I
GRADE IV.
Williams Choice Literature
New Edueation Book Four
Baldwin Fourth Year Reader

KEPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Art Literature Book Four
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Four
Baker Carpenter Fourth Year Language Reader
Whittier’s Selections
Longfellow’s Selections
- Eggleton’s Stories of Great Americans
Andrews’ Each and All
Hawthorne’s Daffy-Down-Dilly
Legends of the Red Children .
Carroll’s Around the World Book Two
Frye’s Brooks and Brook Basins
Long’s Ways of Wood Folks
Tappan’s American Hero Stories
Reed Word Lessons
Aldine First Language Book
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetie Book Four
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography First Book, Part One
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book IV.
American Music Reader II
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary .
GRADE V.

Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Fifth Year Reader |
Art Literature Book Five
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Five
Baker Carpenter Fifth Year Language Reader
Hawthorne’s Wonder Book. )
Longfellow’s Hiawatha
Eggleston’s First Book in American History
Builders of Our Country Book One

; Carpenter’s North America
Carpenter’s South America
Long’s Wilderness Ways
Good Health, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series, Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Five
King’s Elementary Geography
Prang’s Text Book of Art Edueation Book V
American Musie Reader II
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
GRADE VI. )
Williams ‘Choice Literature
Baldwin’s Sixth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Six
Baker Carpenter Sixth Year Language Reader
Burrough’s Birds and Bees and Sharp Eyes |
Hawthorne’s Tanglewood Tales
Longfellow’s Miles Standish .
Long’s Secrets of the Woods
Builders of Our Country Book Two
Gordy’s American Leaders and Heroes
Carpenter’s Europe
Carpenter’s Asia
Carpenter’s Africa
Carpenter’s Australia, Our Colonies, and Other Islands of
the Sea
Emergencies, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series, Book One
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Six |
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography Second Book, Part One |
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VI. |
American Music Reader III. !
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Coneise Dictionary |
GRADE VII.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Seventh Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Seven
Irving's Sketch Book
Lamb’s Tales of Shakespeare
Franklin’s Autobiography
Holmes’ Selection
Whittier’s Snow-bound
Kingsley’s Greek Heroes
Longs’ Wood Folk at School
Town and City, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series, Book Two
Milne’s Progressive Arithmetic Second Book
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography Second Book, Part Two
Barnes’ School History of the United States
Montgomery’s American History

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VII. .
American Music Reader III.
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary |

GRADE VIII. |
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Eighth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades, Book Eight
Hawthorne’s Legends of New England
Hawthorne’s Tales of the White Hills
Longfellow’s Evangeline
Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal
Guerber’s Story of the Greeks
The Body at Work, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series, Book Two
Milne’s Progressive Arithmetie Third Book
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Barnes’ School History of the United States
Montgomery’s American History
Higginson’s Young Folk’s History of the United States
(  copies)
Seudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)
Higginson Channing’s English History for Americans
American Musie Reader IV.
Natural Advanced Music Reader
Webster’s Common School] Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary
GRADE IX.

Williams Choice Literature .
Scott’s Ivanhoe
Seott’s Lady of the Lake .
Longfellow’s Tales of Wayside Inn
Bryant’s Selections .
Guerber’s Story of the Romans
Julius Caesar
Merchant of Venice
Control of Body and Mind, Guelick Series
Metcalf Rafter’s Language Series, Book Two
Lewis’ First Manual of Composition  copies)

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOULS
Bradbury’s Eaton’s Practical Arithmetic
Bradbury Emery’s Algebra for Beginners
Wentworth’s First Steps in Algebra .
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Adams’ Elementary Commercial Geography
Keller Bishop’s Commercial and Industrial Geography
Barnes’ School History of the United States
Montgomery’s American History
Higginson’s United States History  copies)
Seudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies) |
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)
American Musie Reader IV. |
Natural Advaneed Music Reader |
Webster’s Common School Dictionary :
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary
BOOKS FOR TEACHER’S DESK.
Perry’s Bible Manual ,
Ireland’s Story, Johnson
Blaisdell’s Physiology
Dunglison’s Physiology
BOOKS NOT ASSIGNED TO GRADES. ,
Union Series Physiology, Books One, Two and Three
Spaulding and Miller Series of Spellers
HIGH SCHOOL.
ENGLISH.
Author Title
Addison Sir Roger de Coverly Papers
Arnold Sohrab and Rustum
Bacon Essays Civil and Moral
Browning Poems (Selections)
Brvant Selections
Buehler Modern English Grammar ,
Burke Essay on Conciliation with the
Ameriean Colonies
Burke Essay on American Taxation
Burns Poems
Byron Seleetions (Arnold)

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Carlyle Essay on Burns
Chaucer Prologue and Knight’s Tale
Coleridge The Ancient Mariner
Cooper The Last of the Mohicans
DeQuincey Flight of Tartar Tribe
Dickens Tale of Two Cities
Dowden Life of Shakespeare (Primer)
Dryden Alexander’s Feast
Dryden Palamon and Arcite
Eliot Silas Marner
Emerson Fortune of the Republic
Emerson Essay on Culture, Books, ete.
Gayley Classic Myths
Genung Outlines of Rhetorie
Goldsmith Deserted Village and The
Traveler
Goldsmith Viear of Wakefield
Gray Poems (Selections)
Guerber Myths of Gre and Rome
Guerber Myths of Northern Lands
Hawthorne House of the Seven Gables .
Hawthorne Tales of the White Hills and
Sketches
Hawthorne Twice Told Tales
Hitchcock Enlarged Practice Book in
English Composition
Irving Sketch Book (Six Selections)
Irving The Alhambra
Irving Life of Goldsmith
Irving Tales of Traveler
Lincoln Gettysburg Sph |
Longfellow Evangeline
Lowell Vision of Sir Launfal )
Lowell Essay on Lineoln and Lincoln's
, Gettysburg Sph and Other
} Papers
Macaulay Life of Johnson ,
Milton Lyries
Milton Paradise Lost (Books and IT)
Pancoast Introduction to English Liter| ature (Revised)
Plutarch Lives (Selections)
Pope Rape of the Lock
Pope Translation of the Iliad

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
seott Ivanhoe
.Seott Lay of the Last Minstrel
Seott Denney New Composition Rhetorie
Shakespeare As You Like It
Shakespeare Hamlet.
Shakespeare Julius Caesar
Shakespeare King John
Shakespeare Macbeth (Gateway and Rolfe
Editions)
Shakespeare Merchant of Venice
Shakespeare Midsummer Night’s Dream
Shakespeare Twelfth Night
Shakespeare Sonnets
Shakespeare Antony and Cleopatra |
Shakespeare Henry V. |
Shakespeare Henry VIII.
Shakespeare King Lear
Shakespeare Much Ado About Nothing
Shakespeare Othello
Shakespeare Romeo and Juliet
 Shakespeare The Tempest ,
Shakespeare Two Noble Kinsmen
Shakespeare Winter’s Tale
Southey Life of Nelson
Spenser Faerie Queen I.
Spenser Faerie Queen IT.
Tennyson Idylls of the King
Tennyson Poems
Thoreau Succession of The Forest Trees
Warner Hunting of the Deer
Washington Farewell Address
Webster First. Bunker Hill Oration
Wordsworth Poems (Arnold Selections)
FRENCH.
Daudet Tartarin de Tarascon
Dumas La Tulipe Noire
Francois Advaneed French Prose Composition
Francois and Giroud Simple Freneh
Fraser and Squair Elementary French Grammar
Fraser and Squair French Grammar
Halevy L’Abbe Constantin
Labiche Martin La Poudre aux Yeux

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Labiche Martin Le Voyage de M. Perrichon
La Fontaine Fables
Lamartine Jeanne d-Are
Larousse Grammaire Francais
Logie About, Le Roi des Montagnes
Loti Pecheur D’Islande
Merimee Colomba
Moliere Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme
Pailleron Le Monde ou l’on S’Ennuie .
Sandeau Mile. de la Seigliere
Sarecey Le Siege de Paris
Super Freneh Reader

GERMAN.
Bacon Im Vaterland
Baumbach Die Nonna
Freytag Die Journalisten ,
Goethe Hermann und Dorothea
Guerber Marehen und Erzahlungen,
 Part LII

Heath German Dictionary
Heine Die Harzreise
Jagemann Syntax |
Jovnes-Meissner German Dictionary
Kayser and Monteser Brief German Course
Lessing Minna von Barnhelm
Manley Allen Four German Comedies
Moser Der Bibhothekar ,
Pope German Composition
Riehl Der Fluch der Schonheit
Sehiller Wilhelm Tell
Storm Immensee
Wildenbruch Das Edle Blut

SUPPLEMENTARY GERMAN.
Blaumbach Der Schwiegersohn
Hauff Das Kalte Herz
Heyse L’Arrabbiata
Von Hillern Hoher als die Kirche

LATIN AND GREEK.

Allen and Greenough Virgil
Allen and Greenough Cicero .

  REPURT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ,
Allen and Greenough Caesar
. Allen and Greenough Ovid
Allen and Greenough Latin Grammar
Allen and Greenough New Latin Grammar
Barss Cornelius Nepos
Barss Writing Latin, Book One, Revised Edition
Barss Writing Latin, Book Two, Revised Edition
Bennett Cicero de Seneetute and de
Amicitia
Bennett New Latin Composition
Collar and Daniell Greek Composition |
* )’Ooge Cieero |
D’Ooge Viri Romae .
*Fairclough-Brown Virgil’s Aeneid :
Goodwin Greek Grammar
Goodwin and White Xenophon’s Anabasis
Hale First Latin Book, Revised |
Herberman Sallust’s Catiline
* Johnson-Sanford Caesar Gallic War
Jones Latin Composition ,
Keep Use of Moods and Tenses
Kirtland Fabulae Facies
Moulton Latin Composition
Potter New Method for Caesar
Sevimour Homer’s Odyssey
Walker Caesar’s Civil War, Text Edition
White First Greek Book
HISTORY. |
Ashley American Government
Channing History of the United States
Cheney Short History of England
Johnson Ireland's Story
McLaughlin History of the American Nation, New Edition
Myers Ancient History, Revised
Walker Essentials in English History,
Revised
West Ancient. History
*Students’ Series of Latin Classics, B. H. Sanborn Co.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
West Modern History
Wolfson Essentials of Ancient History
MATHEMATICS.
Hall and Knight School and College Algebra
Hedrick Algebra
Sanders Elements of Plane and Solid
Geometry
Stone-Millis Elementary Algebra
Wentworth Revised Plane Geometry
Wentworth Revised Plane and Solid Geometry
Wentworth Second Revision Plane and
Spherical Trigonometry
Wentworth and Hill Five Place Logarithmic and
Trigonometrie Tables
SCIENCE.
Ary, Bryant, Clendenin Morrey Physiography
Atkinson Botany for Schools .
Black Davis Practical Physies
Blanchard Household Chemistry
Clark General Seience
Clark and Dennis Elementary Chemistry
Clark and Dennis Laboratory Manual for Above
Carhart and Chute High School Physies
Coulter Plants
Russell Kelley Laboratory Manual for First. Year Selence
Tarr Von Engeln Laboratory Manual for Physical Geography
COMMERCIAL. .
Carrington Speed Book for Typewriting
Daly Advanced Rational Speller
Eldridge Shorthand Dictation Exercises
Gannett, Harrison HoustonCommercial Geography
Gano Commercial Law
Isaac Pitman Course in Shorthand
Klein Elements of Accounting
Van Tuyl Complete Business Arithimetie
Wilhams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping
Williams and Rogers Modern Tllustrative Banking

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
DOMESTIC SCIENCE.
Norton Food and Dietetics
Williams and Fisher Elements of the Theory of
Cooking
ELOCUTION. |
Emerson Evolution of Expression, Vol.
. and  
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. :
Halleck History of American Literature
Halleck History of English Literature
EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Chancellor Standard Short Course for
Evening Schools
Crampton Hygiene for Workers
Field Covenay Knuglish for New Americans
O’Brien English for Foreigners, Books
I. and IT.
Powers Complete Speller .
Price Direct Method of Teaching
 English
Prior Ryan How to Learn English |
Rafter City and Town
Winslow United States
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
Ewart, Field Morrison Civil Service Manual
MeDonald Foundations in English
Teller Brown Business Methods
EVENING VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. !
Holton Shop Mathematic: |

PART IX.
Graduating Classes ---  
HIGH SCHOOL.
Pearl Imogene Abbott Frances Larkin Mahoney
Heywood Henry Allan John Michael Malone
Stewart Ramsay Allyn Mary Elizabeth Meehan
George Everett Baril Sarah Mekler |
Sarah Virginia Bean Ruth Elizabeth Miles
Rose Veronica Bradley Margaret Beveridge Milton
Margaret Genevieve Brennan Raymond Jerome Mitchell
Cornelius Patrick Brennan Cornelius Joseph Moriarty
Grace Evelyn Bullard John Francis Moriarty
Constance Margaret Callahan William Thomas Moriarty
Henry Leo Cassidy Grace Elizabetib Moynahan
Wilham Edward Chapman Patrick Joseph Moynihan
Girard Ralph Chaput Robert Thomas Moynihan
Sylvio Artnur Chaput Rose Clare Murphy
Edna Tirrell Clark Roberta Estella Neill
Dorothy Helen Cleveland Myra Eulalia Nve
George William Cook Andrew Peter O’Connor
Julia Winifred Crane Elizabeth Rose O’Connor
Marguerite Louise Crary Raymond George O'Neill
Mary Hilda Cray Alice Osgood
Esther Constance Crean *Ruth Eloise Parfitt
Katherine Marie Daly Howard William Parfitt
Cornelius Ambrose Dennehy Eleanor May Pearce
Harold Francis Donoghue Ruth Anderson Pickup
Ruth Evelyn Doyle Stella Irene Randall
George Raymond Duggan Erie Whitelaw Reed
Helen Elizabeth Dunn Margaret Anna Rilev
" *Qertificate of Completion.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

John Aloysius Egan Charles Sumner Roberts, Jr.
Gertrude Franz Helen Franees Rohan
Ravmond Samuel Fuller John Daniel Ross
Samuel Sinclair Gaylord Winifred Caroline Rowe
George Rosario Girard Elsie Margaret Ryan
Helen Gow Marian Zita Ryan
Esther Helen Greaney Edward Arthur Sachs
Abraham Greenspan Beatrice Hopie Sawin
Daniel Roger Haggerty Anna Helena Seanlon
Frances Claire Haley Marion Louise Schuster
Mary Jane Cecelia Hartnett Marv Agnes Shea
Esther Beatrice Hertzmark Thomas Edward Shea
Elizabeth Eaton Holyoke Timothy Harold Shea
Irving Linville Horne Grace Skilling

Elizabeth Mary Horrigan Vera Lena Spamer
Ralph Nelson Humes Charles Henry Stimpson
Leo Chandler Humphrey Mary Catherine Sullivan
Katherine Dwyer Judge Thomas Eugene Sullivan
Genevieve Frances Kane Dora Laura Tatro
Lilhan Mary Kane Mary Tatro

John Patrick Kennedy Alice Louise Treworgy
Ethel Mae Kimball Daisv May Treworgy
Sarah Saunders King Faith Trombly

Dorothy Graee Lamb *Charles Courtland Turner
Fred Wilham Lapean Marion Cuthbertson Tye
Samuel Levenson Anna Elizabeth Vaughan
John Ramage Lyman George Edwin Vines
Margaret Grace Lyon Roy Galbraith Walker
James Arthur McDonald Lueia Irma Warren
Leicester Kent MeElwain Marie Weis

Anna Katherine MeGrath Mary Esther Welch
Mabel Emma MacIntyre Helen Francis Whiting
Hugh Patrick MeLean Harold Wilhain Wynn

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
HIGHLAND SCHOOL.
Elizabeth Anna Allen Burney Knowlton Martin
Elsie Lueilla Allen Harold Edgar Martin
Henry Dwight Allyn Jean Carol Martin
Oliver Edwin Allyn Dora Alice Martineau
Raymond Hayes Barrows Frank Thomas MeGough
Elizabeth Clarissa Bartlett James Hayes Mullen
Edward Wade Battersby John Philip O’Brien
Edna Louise Boyle James Joseph O’Connor
Pauline Cathryn Browne Edward Francis O'Donnell
James George Campbell Albert Ingraham Paine
Alma Marie Carey John Lewis Perkins
Stella Beatrice Carroll Osear Berger Perrault
Ralph Miller Cook Frank Perey Pringle
Cecelia Winifred Cox Gertrude Zena Quintal
Constance Emma Cox Elsie May Rackhiffe —
Wilbert Elmer Davis Paul Joseph Regan
Edwin Otto Dietz Mary Adelaide Regan
Warner Francis Eaton Henry Herman Roeske
Ruth Agnes Ferris Pauline May Root
Louise Addielynn Fringelin Margaret Blanche Ross
Marion Glassman Howard Joseph Shea
Evelyn Rose Gilhooley Isaac Morris Shepro
Francis Chas. Joseph Greaney Doris Ethelyn Simth
Frances Theresa Haggerty Lillian Adelaide Sowden
Ruth Cecelia Haglund Ruth Eleanor Sullivan
Rose Gertrude Haley Clara Louise Thomas
Margaret Hunt Hannuin Howard Hofmann Thomas
Robert John Harrington Helen Mary Thompson
Charles Aloysius Hickey Gladys Anna Thorpe
Hugh Job Hicks Herbert Sands Towne
Robert Merrill Hunter Richard Peale Towne
Mary Magdalen Ivers Thomas Carroll Tracy
Mary Katherine Jess Ralph Leonard Tyrrell
Arthur Thomas Judge Josephine Agnes Wagner
Loretta Prentice Kane Cecelia Marie Walsh
|

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Helena Agnes Kelly Norman Lloyd Waring
Kathryn Esther Kelly Elizabeth Webber
Eileen Margaret King Alice Katherine Welch
Austin Nugent Kirkpatrick Max Weinberg
Helen Anna Lambert Harold Hood Wiesing
Alice Marcella Lussier Florence May Woods

. Robert Teasdale Lynch Madelene Evelyn Wooley
Francis Joseph Mahoney

JOSEPH METCALF SCHOOL.

Helen Winifred Arnold Lottie Anna Lubold
Carl August Aurnhammer Henry Marx
Helen Frances Begley Mary Emilie Mason
Russell Arthur Bradley Theresa Marcella MeCarthy
Hazel Mildred Bray Ernest Philip McGinty
Daniel Thomas Brown Alfred Edwin Mennell
Everett Robert Burkhardt Anna Ruth Moise
Ralph Earnest Butterfield Harold Edwin Moynihan
Sara Caplan Evelyn Madaline Murray
Sara Isabell Clark Edward Thomas Newell
Joseph Michael Collins Kathryn Alice O’Connell
Viola Ethel Davis Wilham Francis O’Connor
Gordon Hills Dearden Herbert Alven Peterson
Eleanor Harriet Dolan Lillian Isabel Ravson
John Charles Dumelow Bessie Emma Richter
Henry Earl Fisher Agnes Marjorie Salter
Maurice Bernard Fitzgerald Fred Edward Schelling
Almer Alfred Gerard Emma Augusta Schmitter
Charles Eugene Godere Helen Loretta Shea
Helen Theresa Gorman Michael Ambrose Shea
Anna Gertrude Greaney Patrick Francis Shea
Gladys Mary Gruenert Henry Collins Sheehan
Lillian Beatrice Hall Oscar Walter Siegert
Carl Norman Harrington Katherine Gertrude Slavin
Priscilla Nettleton Healey Grace Mae Sullivan :
Alden Pierce Healey Helen Franeis Sullivan |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

- Margaret Christina HendersonEdward Henry Sussenguth

John Francis Johnson Bertha Cora Tatro

George Ross Johnston  Claude Thomson

Bessie Florence Kaplinsky Harry Ambrose Thorpe

Mary Golden Kennedy Clyde Elias Underwood

Lilian Evelyn Kennedy Octavia Eliza Utley

Leon Frederick Laporte Gordon James Wilhamson

Rudolph John Laporte Edna Louise Winkler

Robert Sherman Lowell Irene Laura Zwisler

LAWRENCE SCHOOL.

Janet Aitchison Helen Mary MacGregor

Cora Alfreda Anger Garrett Edward Mahoney

Charles Grant Ball Stephen Edwin Mahoney

Ada Alice Baume Edwin James Maloney

William Henry Beck Louise Marks

Richard Gilday Bligh Raymond Salter McCabe

Joseph Victor Boggio Loretta Catherine MeCearn

Rose Breslaw Rachel McKinnon

Helen Eloise Buckley Marguerite Hazel Mew

Gertrude Catherine Cassidy Mary Emma Mullin

Edith Faith Cassie Clarence Everett Neuman

Louis Joseph Cavagnaro Margaret Desire Nye

Hazel May Chaffee Frank Richard O’Connell

Marion Gardner Cobb Samuel Matthew O’Connell

Blanche Horton Conant Ruth Helen O’Neil

Rose Josephine Dempsey Elizabeth Jane Osborne

Ulysses Justin De Vylder Laura Belle Passnaw

John Patrick Dowling Hazel Marion Pattison

Margaret Marie Dunn Mildred Irene Person

Laura Irene Ellis Harold Edgar Pierce

Earl Clifton Esty Archie Portno

Harrington Brainard Fay Freida Irene Provost

Samuel Henry Feldman Dorothy Louise Read

Pauline Downie Fuller Freeda Marguerite Ricker

John Arthur Geraghty Ferdinand Antony Rigali

. t
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Angelina Cecelia Glutney Peter Louis Rigali
Faye Hall Esther Benhard Seibel
Jennie Glenn Hamilton Charlotte Silverman
Albert Charles Hanley Harold Allen Sparrow
Elizabeth Henry Dorothy Beatrice Squires
Irene Gertrude Herbert Dorothy Chaffee Thayer
James Henry Reid Ilerd Helena Emily Thieme
Ida Dora Honsen Florence Elizabeth Turner
Cornelia Crawford Hunter Katharine Barnes Van ValKenAnna Mary Jakubasz burgh
Marion Louise Kane Edward FitzGerald Vineent
Mary Franees Kelly Helen Brooks Weiser
Ursula Cathryn Kennedy Anna Patricia Williams
Janet Franees Labonte Ethel Lilhan Whitinore
Estelle Louise LaFrance MargueriteElizabeth Wolfrum
Mary Katharine Lawler Francis William Wolohan
Sidney Julius Levinson Marguerite Hannah Wood

MORGAN SCHOOL.

Anna Abrams Hilda Matilda Jensen
George Odias Alfred Antil Margaret Marie Kane
Leo Louis Baril Bruno Keller
Alfred Joseph Belanger Doris Kellogg
Helene Marie Anne Beliveau Richard Hugo Klopfer
Rosario Armand Bibeau Hattie Kress
Annie Ruth Rober Clara Kuenzel
Fred Boldue Albert Dewey Jean Lalonde
Albert Frederick Bollenbaech Mary Cecilia Laplante
John Joseph Bresnahan Emery Francis Lathrop
Teresa Agnes Bresnahan Mary Louise Liebeck
Mildred Lena Bresnen Martha Olga Loebel
Fannie Ruth Brodsky James Anderson Maleolm
Verna Rose Brosseau Bertha Amelia Mathey
George Maxwell Turner Brown Margaret Cecelia May
John Christopher Buekley Margaret Theresa MeKenna
James Francis Burke Laura Cora Menard

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

Israel Cohen Leontine Mary Menard |
Catherine Veronica Collins Edward Arthur Miles
Mary Ellen Concannon Amelia Marie Mousette
Rose Anna Cramer Joseph George Murphy
Rose Dillon Alexandra Olga Nazemblo
Yvonne Emma Duclos Albert Siegfried Pueschel )
Aldea Rose Donaldson Jacob Rogrow
Laura Grace Dunean Ruth Madeline Helen Roy
Harold Joseph Farrell Helen Sehoeffel
Elsie Augusta Felsentreger Sadie Skolnik
Frank Vincent Finnerty Louise Anna Smith
Mary Roy Fox Clara Addie St. Lawrence
Margaret Helen Gander Abe Suher
Robert William Gansauge Grace Agnes Sullivan
Arthur Geissler Lydia Martha Torno
Albert Giehler Ella Hattie Trumpold
Frederick August Graves Frank Albert Vogt
Frederick Robert Graham Anna Sophia Wagner
Leroy Albert Hall Rebecca Wiener
Katherine Gertrude Healy Louise Wanda Weissbach
Albert Theodore Hirbour Mary Teresa Wehrler
Charles Arthur Hudson Mary C cha Wilhams
Evelyn Marv Hurley William David Winn
Helen Edel Jensen Leo Joseph Wynn —

. WEST STREET SCHOOL.
Marion Ruth Belding Walter John MeGuiness
Anna Gertrude Carlin Harold McPhee
Arthur Wilson Cleveland Agnes Eleanor MeSweeney
Ruth Eleanor Driscoll Isabella Stirling Muir
Francis Martin Duffy Frederick Harold Musante
Nelson Joseph Furkey Leo Francis Musante
Irene Geneva Gamache William Henry Mvette
Cecelia Garber Francis O’Connell
Cornelius Joseph Hickey Teresa Elma O'Connor
Jacob Holzman Willian Joseph Perron

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
William Wyllie Hyde Agnes Vivian Ryan
Raymond Arthur Johnson Catherine Rose Sullivan
James Norman Lister Harold Patrick Wolfe
James Barry McGoldrick
WEST HOLYOKE SCHOOL.
Elizabeth Constance Sheehan
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
James F, Ball Elizabeth M. Faulds
Esther A. Barsalou Mary E. Flanagan
Harry Berman Abbie Y. Gelineau
Max Berman Theresa Kieley
. Raymond Bluemer John R. Kurnik
Albert P. Brogle John Laidlaw
Harold F. Brown Mary F. LeBreton
Michael Buckley Elizabeth M. McDonnell
Louis H. Carlin Mary K. Moriarty
Mary T. Casey Juliet L. Morin
George B. Cassidy Eva E. Racine
Kita I. Crafts Rose Robinson
Eva I. Crafts Arthur P. Steadman
Katherine T. Crean James A. Sullivan
John F. Cook Rachel E. Wood
Anna  B. Epstein
MORGAN EVENING SCHOOL.
Florence Lilhan Archambault May Amelia Hurley
Elijah Joseph Aubrey Esther Imelda Jarry
 Armand Procid Boucher Sadie Cecilia Jarry
Joseph James Brady Mary Agnes May
Alphonse Ligouri Brosseau  Albert Louise Menard
Ellen Franees Clark Joseph Musante
Eva Mary Corbeil Ellen Cecilha O’Neil
Mary Theresa Dempsey Esther Lebe Peskin

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Martha Rose Dempsey Harriet Celia Rabin
Bessie Dobrowsky William Edmond Roy .
Elzear Joseph Fournier Theresa Schindler
Harold Francis Griffin Fannie Lillian Shapiro
Raymond Michael Griffin Annie Singal ,
Rose Greenspan Frederick William Stietz
Mary Green
LAWRENCE EVENING SCHOOL.

Frank Stafford Bell Raymond Michael Johnson
David Berman William Charles Kaufman
Bertha Margaret Breen Joseph Matthew Kreuter

| Margaret Rose Bresnahan Adalbert Andre LaBarre
Leon Louis Napoleon Burgess Louisianna Alma Lacoste
Joseph Anthony Constance Anna Marie Levinski
Raymond Craigie Agnes Rose Loughrey
Martha May Deacon Williain Franeis Lovett
Francis John Doherty William John Meckel
Brandon Emmet Fitzgerald Grace Morrison
Minnie Agnes Fitzgerald Frank Anthony Perron
Katherine Lillian Forbes Louise Anna Pomper
Edward Walker Gerbert Thomas Scott
George Gottsnran Davis Sloan
Tillie Gordon Isabel Gow Sloan )
Wilbur Bernard Hamel Walter Scott Thomson
Mildred Maidell Heek Hubert Turcotte
Violet Mary Hogan Roland Francis Ward
Georgina Gow Houston Catherine Rose Weibel

WEST STREET EVENING SCHOOL.

John Timothy Biggins Marie Yvonne Joyal
Emily Clara Bober Marie Alice Laramee
Eva Cecilia Boissy Mary Christina Marrin
Marie Albine Brunault Lena Lillian Masse |
Sylvio Pierre Desjardins Mary Frances Manning

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Grace Helena Doherty Grace Frances Murphy

Christina Elizabeth Dowd Viola Agnes McNally

Winifred Magdalene Gahan Roseabell Louise Raymond
| Henry Joseph Hines Lionel Joseph Stebbins

William Arthur Jourdain Madolyn Snyder

WILLIAM WHITING EVENING SCHOOL.

Mary Dymoslawska Pauline Gordon

Geneva Frodyma Mary Lizak

Wilfred John Gehen Anna Niedbala

REPORT OF THE
Office of Fire Commissioners,
Holyoke, Mass., December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Aldermen:

Gentlemen—We respectfully submit you the report of
the Fire Department for the year ending December .

The Board of Fire Commissioners, consisting of Philip
M. Judd, George C. Robert and Patrick F. Carmody, met
January and organized by election of Philip M.
Judd as Chairman, George C. Robert as Vice-Chairman and
John Hildreth as Secretary. |

There have been fires and alarms during the past
year. This is ten alarms more than last year, with loss
on the buildings amounting to and loss on the
contents amounting to and the value of the
property endangered by fire amounted to nearly fourteen
millions of dollars, and the insurance upon said property
amounted to nearly six millions of dollars; the insurance
companies paid leaving net loss on the  
fires and alarms of only or an average of about
$  per fire.

Your Commissioners note with pleasure that the total
loss is  less than last year, which is very satisfactory showing and the foregoing record shows that the
department has been kept up to high state of efficiency,
and our financial statement shows balance of .

The most serious fires of the past year were, namely:
the round-house building of the Boston and Maine Railroad

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS

Company, the B. F. Perkins Sons store-house, the L. H.
Fortier building, and the fire in the Guyott building. These
four fires resulted in loss of about .

We are glad to say that while the year has been very
busy one, we have lost no firemen by accident during the
past year.

Second Assistant Chief Joseph M. LaFrance, Driver
Daniel Moynahan, Captain Daniel McLean and Lieutenant
Walter S. Watt were seriously injured during the year while
in the performance of their duties as firemen. Mr. Moynahan’s injuries were such as to practically make it impossible
for him to perform his duty as fireman, and so he petitioned the Board of Fire Commissioners to be retired upon
a pension, and your Board of Fire Commissioners have
recommended that he be retired upon pension of half of
his regular salary. We are glad to state that Assistant
Chief LaFrance has so far recovered as to be nearly able to
perform his regular duties. Captain McLean received serious cuts on his hand at the fire in the Guyott building, but
has made perfect recovery. Lieutenant Watt, whose hand
was so badly injured at the same fire, will earry the marks
with him as long as he lives, and while he is now performing his regular duties his hand will never be as good as it
was before.

These ineidents tend to show the dangerous nature of
the fireman’s occupation and he never knows, when the
signal ealls him out, to what danger he is going to be exposed.

Your Commissioners congratulate the citizens upon the
splendid reeord of the past year, and bear testimony to the
bravery and faithful services of both officers and men in the
Fire Department.

We regret to have to record that three persons lost
their lives from fire during the past year, namely: Wojeieh
Piegza, Mrs. Thomas Doyle, and Theresa Ward.

As usual, Jarge number of fires were set by boys,  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
in all. For number of years we have been drawing the
attention of parents and teachers to this matter and urging
upon them to instruct the children not to play with fire.
Some of these fires were serious, and if the fires that
have been set by boys could be eliminated, there would be ;
a very great diminution in the number of fires during the
year, and we would also call attention to the careless habit
of throwing lighted cigars and cigarettes on the ground.
Forty fires that we know of were caused by this bad practice.

The increase in the number of pieces of motor-driven
apparatus in the department calls for great care on the part
of the men in charge and also on the part of pedestrians,
and we urge that as soon as citizen hears the alarm of fire
he should immediately get out of the way so as to give the
fire apparatus clear right of way, because in going to a
fire the firemen have to dodge the street cars and all other
vehicles that are on the street, and it behooves every person
on the road to immediately get on the sidewalk because a
few minutes in the beginning of fire will determine its
character, whether it is serious fire or small one.
| We trust, in making the appropriations for the coming
year, you will make them large enough to enable us to carry
out the several recommendations that we hereafter make.

First: Your Commissioners are very much gratified
that in the near future the department headquarters will be
much more desirable than they have been for long time
past. The new headquarters promises to take care of both
men and apparatus in very satisfactory manner. The men
will have separate sleeping rooms, which is something they
should have had long ago.
  Seeond: The demand for new engine house in Ward
One continues to be as great as ever, and we recommend that
House No. be sold and new engine house erected in this
very thickly settled district, and we still think the schoolhouse lot is desirable and central location.

Third: We recommend that five new men be put on

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
in the coming year. The days off and the meal hours required by the men, and the vacations, leave the department
oftentimes in very crippled condition, and it  your Commissioners’ desire that this should be remedied as soon as
possible.

Fourth: The building of the new headquarters necessitates the putting in of new fire-alarm equipment. The |
present system has been in so long that  must be replaced.
It will also be necessary to put the wires of the fire alarm system underground in the thickly settled portions of the city.
We have advertised for bids for both of these long-needed ,
improvements and it will be necessary to make special appropriations for the same in the coming year.

Fifth: We recommend the purchase of feet of
  inch hose.

Sixth: Our experience with motor-driven apparatus has
convineed us that the sooner the city can dispense with horses in the department the more it will be to the advantage of
the city in every way. We believe that the use of motordriven apparatus is more economical, safer, and more healthful for the men in charge of them, and adds vastly to the
efficiency of the department, and we recommend the appropriation of  for auto apparatus for the Ward One

| engine house and the Elmwood engine house.
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand from  .................  |
Total appropriations ................--.+++-  
Receipts from sale of horses, ete............-  
Special appropriation for motor apparatus....  

Total receipts ...........      

EXPENDITURES.

For salarieS  ...         
For stokers and engineers (call members)......  

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  

Repairs, new apparatus, supphes, and econtingent account .......        

Amount appropriated for motor apparatus unexpended ....... cc         
Transferred to other accounts...............  
Balance on hand.........  ...     
Total expenditures .................... 

SALARIES PAID IN THE DEPARTMENT.
Chief Engineer, per year................ +--- 
First Assistant Engineer, per year.............  
Second Assistant Engineer, per year...........  
Superintendent of Fire Alarm, per year........  
Lineman, per year.............  
Captains, per year............       
Lieutenants, per year............ -  
Two permanent engineers of steamers, per year,

. ro C)  
Drivers and permanent men, per year..........  
Four call engineers of steamers, per year........  
Six stokers of steamers, per year.............  
Permanent men in the Department, first year.... .

 Permanent men in the Department, second year..  
Permanent men in the Department, third year...  
Permanent men in the Department, fourth year..  
Permanent men in the Department, fifth year....  
Seeretary of Commission, per year.............  
Veterinary, per year.......  ee    

BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
. Philip M. Judd, Chairman, Term expires January  
George C. Robert, Term expires January  
Patrick F. Carmody, Term expires January  

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.

The Fire Department have inspected during the past
year buildings, and generally the public have been
willing when the buildings were found to be in poor cond tion to remedy the same.

FIRES AND ALARMS.

The number of fires and alarms the past year was
 of which were bell alarms, were still alarms
and where no alarm was given, and there were eight false
alarms. The following is statement of the valuation of
the property endangered by fire, and insurance on said
property, with the amount of the losses by fire and the
amount paid by insurance companies, together with detailed statement of causes of fires, viz.:

Buildings .............      ee 
Contents ....  ... cc  eeee    

Total ...  ...    )  
Insurance on buildings...................  
Insurance on contents.................  

Total ...  ...        ees  
Damage to buildings..................... 
Damage to contents...............  

Total co...      
Insurance paid on buildings............... 
Insurance paid on contents...............  

Total wo... ec    tenes 

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Total damage...........  ...    eens  
Total insurance paid.............   
Total net loss of fires and alarms... 
The average loss per fire above insurANCE WAS  ...         
The number of fires and alarms during each month in
the year were as follows, viz.:
December, .......  cc ce      
January,  ...        Bl
February,  ...        OF
Mareh, .....         se l
April,  ...       tee  ee Ob
May, .....    erect   Of
June, ...     te   
July,  ...       ecec  
August,  ...         eens 
September, ...... ee      D
October, .... cc ce         
, November, .......  ...         
Total  ...   teeter tectes  
The eauses of the different fires and alarms are classified
as follows, viz.:
Set by DOYS .......            ses  
Boys playing in ecellar...........  ...      ]
Boys set fire om plazZa....... cc       
Hot asheS .......  ...  ce    cere cces O
Hot ashes on plaZZz@...... ce      enee  
Unknown ....       e  
Spontaneous combustion ..........  ...      es  
Careless use of matches................ 
+ Careless use of matches thrown from window.........  
Careless use of matches thrown on roof.............. ]

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Careless use of matches in bedelothes................ I
Careless use of matches in clothes press..............  
Cigar stub  ...   cc ce    ect DO
Cigar stub in sawdust...........     ees  
Match or cigar in awning.............     ees  
Cigarette stub ......  ...  ec      ce cc  
Cigarette OM AWNING...........  ec     ees  
Cigarette In waste basket............. eens  
Cigarette on roof...  ... ce   et eens  
Children playing with matches.....................  
Sparks from stove.........   cere   ener acces  
Sparks from locomotive..............ee     
Sparks from hoisting engine.............   ees  
Sparks from pipe............      enees  
Sparks from fireplace..........  ...          
Sparks from fire engine............. cce      
Back fire im auto......... ee  
Short circuit in auto... ....      
Defective chimney .........        
Defective fireplace  ... c   tenes  
Detective stovepipe ........    ts  
Defective Wiring IM auto... ....cc  eens  
False alarm ...  ...  c. ec ce  cent teens  
Overheated Stove  ... .. cc  e   eens  
: Overheated steam plpe......  ...      
Overheated drier oo...      eenes  
Overheated film ..  ...    ee    
Overheated stove plpe......  ...        
Overheated bearing .......  ...         
Back draft  ...   cc              
Struck by lightning. ............  ...          
Escaping ZaS  ...   ce         ees  
Soot in chimney........  ...       teenies  
Soot in stove pipe... ....             eens  
Man smoking in bed........   ce      
Mneendiarv ..        tee   cence  
Gas jet set curtain afire.... ce    

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  

‘Gas stove set curtain afire..... ee   
Gas Jet set woodwork on fire...........  ...    
Gas StOVE  ...  t   tetas  
Gasolene wo...   cc ce  erecta tee sees  
Gasolene stove .......           eens  
Gasolene leaking ........  ...    ce tee  ees  
Gasolene leak in auto.......        
Gasolene used for cleaning gloves................  
Electric flatiron .......  ...ee    
Electric car Wires... ...   ce   ete    
Electric car short circuit...  ...     
Blectrie pole short cirewit.......... e    
Electric wire in paper mill...  ...      
Electric Wire  ...  ...   cc   cc  ce   ewes  
Electric wire short circuit.............  ...     
Electric Wire  auto............c      
Electrician’s torch .........     ec        
Candle tipped over ..........        ene  
Candle in elothes closet.............      
Candle burning too low............c    eens  
Rubbish im areaway.............c     eens  
Rubbish in rear of barn............        
Burning rubbish im eellar......................  
- Friction in picker...........    t   anes  
Friction in carding machine..................    
Pipe in man’s pocket..............     ees  
FirecrackerS  ...  cc   ec       enes  
Firecrackers on AaWning..........     esees  
Fireworks .......  ...             ees  
Rats and matches..........  ...   ee ens  
Christmas tree .......    cc    eens  
Crossed electric WireS........... cc     
Thermostat out of order...............     
Brush fire ....  ... cc     ce    teens  
Lighted match im grass...........  ... cc       
Overturned lantern .........  ...      teens  ]
Oil stove ..  ... ce        eae   

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Fuse burned out.......  ...          
Welding rails  ...      teenies  
Clothes rack near stOV@......          
Crossed WireS  ...     ce       eens  
Lamp in clothes closet..........-       
Rekindled fires  ...  ...  ce   teen      
Jacket over radiator, matches in pocket..............  
Painter’s torch  ...  ce     teenies  
Plumber’s pot .......    eeee     ees  
Plumber’s candle ........           
Tinner’sS pOt ...... cc         ees  
Dentist’s lamp .....  ...     eens  
Pot of grease  ...     ete     eens  
Tar kettle...  ...        ences  
Flash light exploded.......  ...  ...         ]
Hot water heater exploded...............    
Burning paper ........  cc     ee   
Children burning punk...........        
Ash chute on fire... ...       
Burlap on engine to keep it Warm..............  
Escaping steam .......     eens  
Smelled snoke, no fire.....  ...  ...      ]
Total  ...     cc ec cere tee ecceses  
FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

Your Board of Fire Commissioners have advertised for
proposals to put the wires of the fire alarm system under
ground in the thickly settled portions of the city, so that
with the installing of the fire alarm system in the new engine
house the dangerous conditions which have existed so long
by having overhead wires might be abolished, and we sineerely hope that the coming year will see this long-needed
improvement carried into effect. The fire alarm system has
long been antiquated, and we have also advertised for a
new up-to-date fire alarm system to be placed in the new

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
headquarters, and with these two improvements we believe
that our fire alarm telegraph system will compare favorably
With any In the country.

The property of this department is as follows:
  pole Wagon.......       eens  wire reel... co eens  
Strong current protector board...............  
Storage battery ...........  ...        
Case and switchboard................. miles of wire, all insulated................. tower bells and strikers............... mechanical gongs................     Gamewell signal boxes....................  
— telegraph poles...............    private Gamewell boxes..................
 -inch gongs and indieators................ indicators without gongs................ dead man... ....         eens city signal star boxes................ six-cireuit repeater...  ...      stop clocks.........          
L horse ..... ce   ce ec ec       ees  
] WAZOn ...    cc   ne   sleigh ......             buggy  ...  cc      harnesses ......    cecc       ees pike poles, cant hook, crow bar, shovels.. miles of wire on hand...................... back boards..........  ...   ee ees key boxeS.......  ...   set of bits...  ... ce   set of screw driverS...........   bit braces  ... ee teens wood chisels..........       eens hack saw frame.............cc   s jack switches. ......  ... cc      

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
  battery plates.........  ...      
BE JATS .. oc            eet ences  
Set of blocks and falls.................  
$ 
HAY AND FEED.

The maintenance of this branch of the department has
been quite heavy this last year owing to the high price of all
kinds of feed, although the introduction of automobiles has
helped great deal, and we trust the time will soon come
when we ean dispense with horses entirely in carrying on
fire department work. It makes sanitary conditions for
the men better and we believe it gives nore economical service to the city.

HOUSES.

The houses are in very good condition, the Board of
Public Works having been very generous in their treatment
of the department. With the building of the new headquarters, one of the stock recommendations of the Fire Com- 
missioners for many years will be left out of this report.

HOSE.

We have now on hand feet of hose, feet
of which has been coupled with serew eouplings and whieh
has been changed from the cluteh coupling to the serew
coupling at net cost of about and we hope soon to
have the entire department coupled with the regulation
screw coupling.

The following is the amount of hose on hand:

Screw Coupling Good Fair Poor Total
House No.  
House No. 
House No. 

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Screw Coupling Good Fair Poor Total
House No. 
House No. 
House No.   
HORSES.

We have thirty-three horses in the department and continued experience with the automobiles shows the great advantage they possess over horse-driven apparatus, and as
fast as possible we believe that the use of horses in the department shall be dispensed with. We have been obliged
to purchase during the past year one horse.

The following is list of the apparatus in the Fire Department, viz.:

  Chief’s automobile.

I Assistant Chief’s automobile.

  horse-driven fire alarm wagons.

  steam fire engines.

  reserve steam fire engine.

  aerial ladder with tractor.

  aerial ladder horse-driven.

  city hook and ladder truck.

  combination chemical and hook and ladder truck.

  chemical engmes.

  combination hose and chemical wagon.

  two-horse hose wagons.

  two-horse exercise wagons.

  motor-driven despatch wagon. |

  motor-driven chemieal and hose wagon.

  “REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
PERMANENT FORCE.
 John T. Lynch, Chief Engineer.
 Patrick J. Hurley, First Assistant Chief.
 Joseph M. LaFrance, Second Assistant Chief.
 Thomas F. Monoghan, Superintendent of Fire Alarm.
.. Daniel J. Gorman, Captain. |
|  Daniel Hogan, Captain.
 James J. Long, Captain.
 Samuel D. Loomis, Captain.
 Daniel MeLean, Captain.
-  John P. Wynn, Captain. |
 John F. Rohan, Captain. ,
 George F. Orrell, Captain.
 Daniel J. Brennan, Captain.
 John Welch, Captain.
 Jeremiah J. Hallisey, Lieutenant.
 John J. Casey, Lieutenant.
 Joseph N. Riley, Lieutenant.
 John J. Ryan, Lieutenant.
 Michael J. Donoghue, Lieutenant.
 John J. Manning, Lieutenant.
 James J. Crowley, Lieutenant.
 Walter  S. Watt, Lieutenant.
 James J. Sullivan, Lieutenant.
 Patrick J. Rohan, Lieutenant.
 John J. Fenton, Lieutenant. ,
 William P. Gately, Engineer.
 Louis LaBreque, Engineer.
 Timothy Harrington, permanent man.
 Albert Tardy, permanent man.
 Austm F. Mulqueeney, permanent man.
 Patrick J. Kennedy, permanent man.
 Damel Luynch, permanent man
 Frank S. Lynch, permanent man.
 Thomas Conway, permanent man.
 Chas. FE. W. Aurnhammer, permanent man. |

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  George A. Ellison, permanent man.
 Thomas Ash, permanené man.
 James Brady, permanent man.
 William H. Strain, permanent man.
 James O’Grady, permanent man. ,
 John J. Moriarty, permanent man. ,
 Patrick J. Kennedy, permanent man.
 James M. Gately, permanent man.
 John B. Moreau, permanent man.  Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man.
 August F. Greunert, permanent man.
 Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man.
 Michael Bowler, permanent man. ,
 Matthew F. Welch, permanent man.
 Robert E. McCarthy, permanent man. |
 Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man. ,
 Wilham Brady, permanent man.
 Michael Riley, permanent man.
 Dennis Devine, permanent man. ,
 Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man.
 William J. Millane, permanent man.
 Sifroy Perron, permanent man.
 Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man.
 Paul Bieber, permanent man.
 George Miles, permanent man.
 Michael Lacey, permanent man.
 Patrick Barrett, permanent man.
 Dennis J. Sheehan, permanent man.
 John J. Nugent, permanent man.
 George Hickson, permanent man.
 Ernest L. Krug, permanent man.
 Thomas Sullivan, permanent man. |
 Edward Clancy, permanent man.
 Thomas Fallon, permanent man.
 Roger Coffee, permanent man.
 Michael P. Mahoney, permanent man.
 Michael Cray, permanent man. |

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
 John T. McCarthy, permanent man.
 John F. Lally, permanent man.
 John J. Rohan, permanent man.
 John J. O'Connell, permanent man.
 Wilham F. Herbert, permanent man.
 Louis O. Desilets, permanent man.
 Patrick J. Donoghue, permanent man.
 Arehibald J. Maleolm, permanent man.
 George F. Mannix, permanent man.
 Thomas F. Oldread, permanent man.
 John J. O'Hare, permanent man.
 Patrick E. Smith, permanent man.
 Williain J. Mavs, permanent man.
 Dennis J. Sullivan, permanent man.
 Frederick G. Wood, permanent man.
 John J. Fitzgibbon, permanent man.
 James L. Loudon, permanent man.
 John Castle, on the pension hist. |
 Charles H. Knapp, on the pension list.
 Daniel Moynahan, on the pension list.
LOCATION AND ASSESSORS’ VALUATION OF THE
FIRE ENGINE HOUSES.
| House No.  High street, value of house
and land .....  ...  ee     
House No.  Main street, value of house
and land oo.  ... ce cc ce ens  
House No.  West Hampden street, value of
house and land... ..  ...     
House No.  Canal street, value of house and
land co... ee       
House No.  South street, value of house and
land .o    tee ena  
House No.  Chestnut street, value of house
and land ....  ... ee  eae  
$ 

. REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Hook and Ladder Company No.  High Street.
Patrick J. Hurley, first assistant engineer, August,  .
Joseph M. LaFranee, second assistant engineer,  .
Joseph M. Riley, heutenant, September ,
Patrick J. Rohan, heutenant, May .
Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man, January,  .
Michael J. Riley, permanent man, July .
Roger Coffee, lineman, February .
Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man, January,  .
Michael J. Lacey, permanent man, April .
Michael Cray, permanent man, January .
John F. Lally, permanent man, October .
John T. MeCarthy, permanent man, March .
Thomas Sullivan, day watch, December .
Patrick J. Donoghue, December .
Hook and Ladder Company No.  Main Street.
George F. Orrell, captain, February,  .
James L. Loudon, permanent man, September .
George F. Miles, permanent man, April .
Michael P. Mahoney, permanent man, January .
Robert E. McCarthy, driver, April .
Patrick Barrett, permanent man, April .
George F. Mannix, permanent man, December .
Hook and Ladder Company No.  Hampden Street.
John F. Rohan, captain, January .
George A. Ellison, permanent man, February,  .
Timothy Harrington, permanent man, January .
John J. Ryan, heutenant,  |
Combination Chemical and Hook and Ladder Company No. South Street.
Daniel J. Gorman, captain, February .
James J. Crowley, January .
Charles F. W. Aurnhammer, September .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Steamer and Despatch No.  High Street.

John Welch, captain, August  .

John J. Fenton, heutenant, January,  .

Patrick J. O’Connor, permanent man, April .

Sifroy Perron, permanent man, April .

Frank  Lynch, permanent man, May .

Paul Bieber, permanent man, April .

Ernest L. Krug, permanent man, December .

Archibald J. Maleolm, December .

John J. O’Hare, permanent man, December .

William J. Mays, permanent man, December .
Steamer Company No.  Main Street.

James J. Sullivan, heutenant, March .

John B. Moreau, driver of hose, January .

Dennis Devine, driver of steamer, April .

Matthew F. Welch, permanent man, October .

Louis O. Desilets, permanent man, November .
Steamer Company No.  Hampden Street.

Samuel Loomis, captain, July .

Albert Tardy, driver hose, April,  .

William P. Gately, engineer, July,  .

Dennis J. Sullivan, permanent man, December .

Steamer Company No.  Canal Street.

Daniel MeLean, captain, August .

John J. Fitzgibbon, permanent man,  .

Thomas Conway, driver of chemical, January,  .

James Brady, permanent man, January .

Dennis J. Sheehan, driver of hose, April .

Michael Bowler, permanent man, January,  .

John J. Casey, heutenant, May .

REPORT UF FIRE COMMISSIOMERS  
Steamer Company No.  South Street.
Daniel Hogan, captain, February .
Jeremiah J. Hallisey, heutenant, July .
P. T. Kennedy, permanent man, August .
August F. Greunert, permanent man, January,  .
Pp. J. Kennedy, driver, January .
Louis LaBreque, engimeer, November .
Thomas Ash, driver hose, Mareh,  .
John J. Nugent, permanent man, June .
Combination Chemical and Hose Company No.  ,
  Main Street.
Daniel J. Brennan, captain, April .
Michael J. Donoghue, heutenant, January,  .
Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man, June,  .
Edward M. Claney, driver, February .
John J. Rohan, permanent man, December,  .
Thomas N. Oldread, December .
Hose Company No.  Chestnut Street.
James J. Long, captain, August,  .
James J. Manning, lieutenant, September .
Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man, April .
Daniel J. Lynch, permanent man,  .
George Hickson, driver hose, June .
Patrick E. Smith, permanent man, December .
Chemical Engine No.  High Street.
John P. Wynn, captain, January .
Walter S. Watt, heutenant, February .
James M. Gately, permanent man, June .
William J. Millane, permanent man, April .
Thomas F. Fallon, February .
John J. O’Connell, permanent man, December .
William F. Herbert, permanent man, September .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIOFERS |
Chemical Engine Company No.  .
Samuel D. Loomis, captain, February,  .
Austin F. Mulqueeney, permanent man, Mav .
William H. Strain, permanent man, November .
John J. Moriarty, driver, September .
Frederick G. Wood, permanent man, December .
CALL ENGINEERS AND STOKERS.
Steamer No.  .
Frank A. Shelley, engineer, mechanic, Newton place,
April,  .
White P. Bidwell, stoker, paper finisher, Newton place,
April,  .
Steamer No.  .
Albert Eger, engineer, April .
Edward Ahern, stoker, moulder, Mam street, August  ,
 .
Steamer No.  .
Joseph Eaton, Nonotuck street,  .
Steamer No.  .
John F. Mahoney, engineer, Center street,  .
Patrick Ginley, stoker, August .
Steamer No.  .
James J. Murray, stoker, August .
Steamer No.  .
James O'Connor, engineer, mechanie, West street, July
  .
John Donoghue, stoker,  |

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
CONCLUSION.

Your Commissioners express to the honorable Mayor,
City Couneil, Board of Public Works, Board of Water Commissioners, the Eleetrie Light Department, the City Clerk,
the City Treasurer, the City Auditor, the City Marshal and
the police officers, and all other public officers their sincere
thanks for the kindly co-operation and the many acts of
courtesy shown us during the past year, and we thank the
Holvoke Street Railway Company on behalf of the members

of the Fire Department for the continued privilege of allowing them to ride on the company’s cars when on duty without expense, and for their general co-operation with the
Fire Department in every way.
Respeetfully yours,
PHILIP M. JUDD, ,
GEORGE C. ROBERT,
PATRICK F. CARMODY,
Holyoke Fire Commissioners.

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD.
Salaries
Maurice Lynch, Chairman..................... 
J. Sidney Wright, Vice-Chairman..............  
J. Joseph Carroll, M. D., Secretary.............  
EXECUTIVE STAFF.

J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer.............. 
J. Joseph Carroll, M. D., Bacteriologist........  
Frank L. Avery, Inspector of Plumbing........  
John S. O’Neill, Sanitary Inspector............  
John M. Carlon, Inspector of Meat and Provisions  
Elizabeth G. Shea, Clerk................. 
Daniel P. Hartnett, Milk Inspector............  
Edward O’Connell, Asst. Milk Inspector.......  

William C. Van Tassell, D. V.S., Inspector of AnImMals  ...        ees :

REPORT OF THE
To His Honor, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke, Mass. :

Gntlemen :—The thirty-third annual statement of all matters pertaining to the Board of Health for the year ending
Nov. is hereby submitted for your consideration. |

ORGANIZATION.

The members of the Board of Health met for organization
the first Monday of February,  and elected the following officers: Maurice Lynch, Chairman; J. Sidney Wright,
Vice-Chairman; J. Joseph Carroll, M. D., Secretary and
Bacteriologist. ]

Appended are the reports of the Health Officer, Inspector
of Plumbing, Inspector of Milk, Inspector of Meat and
Provisions, Bacteriologist, and Superintendent of the Sanatorium; also the mortality tables and records of the registration of contagious diseases with record of the office
work and statement of the receipts and expenditures.

Regular meetings of the Board have been held each month 
and special meetings when necessary.

DISEASES DANGEROUS TO PUBLIC HEALTH.

Diphtheria cases are required to be isolated for minimum period of fourteen days, scarlet fever for twenty-one
days and measles for ten days. Small pox cases are turned
over to the Health Department as soon as the diagnosis  s
made. Chicken pox, mumps and whooping cough cases are
kept from school but isolation is not as strictly enforced.

No children from placarded houses are allowed to attend
school until the termination of the case.

  REPORT OF THE BUJARD OF HEALTH

Isolation  maintained largely by allowing wage earners
to continue their voeations if all rules are obeyed and the
arrangement of the house permits perfect isolation. Among
families Where isolation is impossible, wage earners are in
some eases allowed to continue work if they can stay away
from home.

ANTI-TOXIN. No red tape is necessary to secure free anti-toxin. It is
given at once upon the request of any physician, and in any
quantity. swab is required whenever anti-toxin  given.

VACCINATION

It is generally admitted that vaccination and re-vaceination furnish the only real protection against small pox.
Quarantine and isolation alone will not control the disease. SMALL POX.

During the year -five cases of small pox were discovered,
one on Hampden street, one on Park street, and three on
Main street. The latter cases were in boarding house and
the three inmates who developed the disease were removed
to Hillside Hospital.

; The souree of this was small child being brought here
from Canada where there was an epidemic of small pox.

The total cost of the five cases was part of which
will be returned to the city.

DISINFECTION. ,

Disinfection is done after the termination of diphtheria,

scarlet fever, small pox and tubercular eases.
TUBERCULOSIS.

Many eases of this disease are not reported, though every
effort is made to secure complete registration. In addition
to registration, the Health Department examines sputum
from which eases are reported and disinfeets after death 
removal of case.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL.

The status of the question of-a contagious disease hospital
for the city remains the same as last year; the arguments
for it are the same. While nothing definite has been done as
yet toward the establishment of contagious disease hospital, still the recommendation of His Honor the Mayor and
the requests of the State Board of Health would seem to
inake certain the erection of such structure in short time.

INFANT MORTALITY.

Infant mortality, perhaps, more than any one topie, should
receive our most careful attention. The eity or town which
at the present day is not alive to the possibilities of saving
human life through taking heed of its milk supply, its training and care, through judicious, kindly advice and assistanee from competent nurse, to the mothers who either 
through ignorance or careless indifference negleet the young
child, is coming far short of its privileges and also its duty.

It is gratifying and encouraging to be able to state that
this line of health work is receiving much attention and
consideration throughout the country.

The difference in the death rate of the various social
classes is noticeably marked in the case of infants, and the
most foreeful argument favoring the district nurse for
those mothers who either do not know or are unable to give
proper care and attention to their babies for one cause or
another is, that mortality the first year of life differs enormously, according to the circumstances of the parents and
the amount of intelligent care bestowed upon the infant.

VITAL STATISTICS.

During the year, deaths occurred in tne city, giving
a death rate of per cent per thousand population, exeluding the non-residents ). Our actual death rate  s
  per thousand.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE A.
Showing the comparative number of deaths, still-births
and death rates for the years to inclusive:
Still Death
Deaths Births Total Rate
| Lo.           TDI  Lo...          Loe         .....         
LOT Lee      
Dds fa DO  
L  Loe       
|  S] er ......        ...       
W  Lo.        . ......    . 
OD  ...         
DS —s- .........      wo...  ee  ees ...         ..............-...-.-. IO 
L  Le ce    
W   ee   ...   

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
TABLE G.

Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the eity

and in the institutions, during the various months:

: ww» a
ge E

Ward  ......  
Ward  ...... 
Ward  ......  
. Ward  ......  
Ward  ...... 
Wardé ...... 
Ward  ...... 
City Hosp. ...  
H. Prov. Hosp.  
Almshouse ... 
Brightside ...  
B’ven-Kelly H.  ...  .. .... .. .. ..  
Harkins H’me. ..  ... .... .. .. LT... .. oe.  
Mt. Marie..... .. .. .. .... -. -. Ll  ]... ..  
Sanatorium ..  .. 
H. Ag’d P’ple. .. .. .. ..  ... .... JT  ...  
Total,  
Non-residents  
Still-births ...  

  rt OOD CON et CD OC Kf ret ret rt} et  mAh et NA
cg AE HTOANM MHON MHN AHN WH aw
i rt Le .
ie Plitiido of opti or 
a
& fe es e&€& se oe*e®je mosses
s —. ese  @® @&  #& ss —hle x. @
ep
gle) oi:fii": tiiteie Se!
| rr cc AS
: iS SIM mp re rs
  Mee ses e®owt cm i- oN Ce |
- @®  e#  oe  e
ez cof or tt mor or ror sos NN Oeee |
SE .- e& Ce oe rHeN Oe om |
aee#oe *@  Qo ome
se ie!»® omg    e§  @®  ss ry oe 
g  eo je e® se“MO  pt wets  esoe *
ole tee on. *teO  swt is mam  
a eetes  s.lUc clr tml oe  #@ s.—lUCc em ry es
y. PDP   tp iP? pp bb bp ob pom prim
a soars ii rp orp pits
fo} i
 opm  Pt oO mt thle  ss se aoe! ss se  oe e
fx,  e& oN  ss oe  
. re es #@ es ie ———
és) eal ee oe  oe es sesee *
 Rm) TPP iR PP opi ibibo opi obit
o |é Dim   iM iisii: bo nil:
BP jam)  i: it  : i: iciiae
 ee
\@) eS om OD “csee #@ee#
 PLiIM imi ot oii:
 Sa  
” ss. Um e®e# &®  #@ ss. é@oe +j*  @&  
|  e@ e#  
a eB eS atta
A Bi Ime tt rim  oii  :
G SaEnEEE EET rar EES aE EEEmemeemererie
  mamerSM DD Pbpb bi obi rin:
 ie rf oO syd ele “mt  @#   
Oo i! .— ss se on ss @
|  ls. QI mt omtiwd 
! Ca on “NN moo OS wt tt ad oe ». 
it acsss  
| tn se [ed s- oe s- es e#  @
 “OO oe oPeeeeee @
PO Dt Pipi:
| OT  #@  fm es &#® @
| re aa Pas Oe
es nr (Rat tee
od -M OS.  WM 
re  Ce Cr rr tee  -B» "oO: ‘ow dC -@ .g
eBrrct "gy -Dm wm  -&..g
i S$. Ao Em @& :: eo @
|  ZIlIIIIR iB tegsaese ee
  Socs ce: —
  G& .- Oo .. -Saesose an -oO ‘Be: :?
  wm Ot te ts an “oo  gy
fx, MR eg  un DHw  "ea Bo
, Se: Be tae (OR BMOE SE  ESSA
i wm -eB ON +s ewe S
|“ae ao HG Cano
it [oe bd  mM —— mM e
  et SH te ud  COR OOH Rea Fea te
 ReREeT Re See    
| S| Tm SER TEscsaesseave PSS PRBS At see seoce sae Sern Penns
| Meme Sees TOES Oe CBOSS  s
SROs ne ges geerwegesyvsys
At eoancras SOlOSeps oR SSB eEGEA
mlLosoegke rosea Ce Caad
BANFORKEN Be SeROUMOGOOUO OCOD

 Mm ra Oot STON NN OD Oot SO He rt NO
  wo ra OO
aN LO etBON Oe exer Oo mX CON “SO COS
oa -N et oOo
.   pam OE on e
e   Or on  .
e   —N  tN e
» OO re ty  os ry CE om] ON e
.  “II ON  Ce Pm 
. ry  Caso)  (om) CE ae ON 
e ry rm  ry ry  .
e AN or Ca ome  oe.
  Ca re  .
. i) “ht em} “LQ ope Ci Ves) 
.  ry
.  "FIN CON rm 
te r)  —N  Ve) CE om  a) 
e om) rm  or Om  SE oo} NN re
or oe NN  Oa on! Om oa! Ct et ee) 
e . oe r)
e Oe on ed owe  Tom] “oO 
. orn  rm Cae Ven) e
e rm   o™ .
e “ind Ok  ore  Oo om} oe 
e On  oe ty  
Oa oe on Oa ,e  rm  Oa 
e   se  .
e oe rm  .
 @  ce om ry   ort rt
  se  rm  e
  or    mt AN e
e CE ome]   e
e  OO oe . re  .
.  (N “MON .
 .  “mw .
  Co on CE ae toe "NQ  os .
e  re   .
e “os Oa on]  ty rN  e
.  rs  ——N  .
@d bq  Pas .  .
aa -g  bu  Oe .
[ Ss a?)  .- of ww .
| een}  UO ge  omg fn SF: aN  
®  ws  .v be RS, Po .g .
eH  ae  bd So  -onm TE ye .
| Te  ge  Owe Ze e
Cu ist og (IB eR Sem Figo gegen ii i:
a Oo   ww  Mm Sd io  
wo a! nn. @:s @s (G  Fea ink! :
SOAR iam SF og. tant (A SoS fad BEN SE !:
ag om peg Geet ns
o *" ‘“  ro)  Oo  -—  e
| St  o. “kt aw VD fo) osads  e
roe BS. Lk -S  RnR Eese  eaa 
pve  Seed gy sE Ses  |:
ewo on. Si:cgi  etou® wer ocho, :
Ce LOD QE Ss CA go  SCHhSCOoMAs 
Sahat Goolwa Ons  bo oom sf
,PSSSaes SSwmotkgras e,G LEG osoe
SSe Mask ce. es SEE SS FEsoeebs
- te Stoasadveg td oroags
ae sks Ch oOsoOng saa wp wOtos Sanoon
e OBOE matSovAaosAo Bret Eor yy @dlercal
& HANK "HANVO OHO OMGRT OS Ae omnan

\ oO re alae §
Sea Sat a
| oa cr eae oe re se
  COON -N -. 
E eS "“COMID COMIN NN FON oon |
  ahs .
- ot arti ic ale een cla
— es  Se ss a: :
: Oerete reo iia :
"  — se ms
jaa “Nr ; :
Fa lel es as tg .
a Sedaka   ae
a ar ie
: ial  ‘
: Oe :
ee ES:
| ps lia *. *.
  "ror Ce oeaA ae:
   ot: oe SS
fi Sed aS ie Me eats ba a
:   +“ -*
me tad TRG er os Gi alias eine afin rk Lad aE ess ty pkvi ’
 ha .
:  : ?
eed or “hi - Fe OUR. :
s et Eee . ne a
: ol  —
oy ba .  &| seeae wet "AN : :
- *. ;
 aoe Set 
 : in *.  Py se ;
:  ok ta if oe ORee esie aor. re
z “. .  —
: oa NN oD ae .
fn es *.  ay. ae —— .
a} Moka  ae BE eaES:
| “this f. ae   |e te Ai ea git  :
af Re te aa aie z
Lar: ae adie  ‘Tr : :
. ea   oe rs ;
  ed re oie Mo   :*) bs
ole bd sane . xy Bi Ih cat iaannes, Geta ts ae ae :
Be ays sas hE Say we oS Beak  f
vx “ag? is : :
a: : . .
 ms  ;
 fm  A
ms  Sr  "@  .
SO hehaa) Aw wits  hee twp om th WM ) :
a Oe PT ‘A:  
So  OR . ae  “
jee "Oo  See Bre. vs ne wt
Bet ga Tear oe ee
 ne (Bow oN EEae ae ar Bs  Pipes glee Ne
-  -SBag -o  al to Ps -o Ss osé& .
  (oSott Ney Dro  a
  Saesee  bssee fez 
i *
: Sf, ‘oy Cot mw  StBe Es eases &
O om cskpaes g&. ate BE ig
dew Banu nd arss ES Nlgn smog PT De, es  r
 pee page BAD Sue —— eo
PELE tS oye Ss  Oo  or
  “Sead ab Tex ont
As  er ow
a oS gadeh. o's  gs PE E
pSELEEssee swat he
Se Pan esse fom fet  .) aod cod Cet ay Las)
“Sbosasanecs Bas
Bm OARA |
Digitized ty GOO

  op “oO Oo CO  rt Ver) ]
re es ee”
. Er) NAAAAOMMEN wW- 
ie)  |
SN
e . (— |
e es N
ep aQ ta to Ox eN   —
   &
rm Oe on CO ae fo  |

.  N

 rm Cr oe ol  to |
 . fae]
AN re    es re |
. .  |

AN te (WN os )

 
ta oN @) 

s e. foe]

N  or Om  ioe) ‘

 Sal

o gu  toe |
.   H
es om pel  oe”  '

e e.se Oo |
AN  re @)  |
wo Oe on oe  CO AN ;

e . Sal
oO wat   ew |
[Vent on  CO ws CE oe] N

 Ven}
tom  @) .

.   AN e

—-—  ame    tem fa) !
e  eo |
N  .  

 .  i) 
N  ors re  Ca oe tm oO |

e   Jan) 

  epm ie (me) |
e  . iver}
NN  “Oe CD |
s   —-) |
N gu Ce on  Ve) eve |
.  oO”
N  gal a.) OE om  N
; . Ver)
re    
e   .
 —- —N Ce  eo Ve)
.  
e “mm Se  Ro} te 
e  aed fo} 
.  t)  Sug  .
. TO om  
. . “of  a) e
Plo df fig Bber: oy
e  Ld e
  Ss "Sm oa fe) Ps
Puc}   vo s
  om omg eg 
y Po  ow ma,)
(+)  na 
Gas e) [)   “Ug  .
gat MM. &.. sD a.)
Ssh BIR gs gt: os cg: hel  io} on
m  S::M  OSs: BE  jos
SPEa Sli, fiz esti ga of les
DD be  be
Pak On oO. eo 
L QQ bo "  oc fan ene Ged
g@o .iSuws iF TEES! GL 
Moe eA Keg Fates is ae so: oles
a an co oo
 mes  he  AO
ae “SR ASEES SEMS- 
S|  op) ww r+ 
“  aemA ASE P| oe
@  oO  —
  BSSERaLesiz -o AZ oA aee Sagi og gs jive
  BQ VM ES rf oo
 Q

, be  SdUdospz. ny Se sk A) EX Bo am Oo Ges Ba oS ae)
on
he  BSssocshveseoer oC o. U'S
We) fo) NNRnRBOAKEAO mM Zz Bm !

N Soe fom) on DON tH et oe  nN
 fx .
YS .
eS ee,
  ere ON ws OO UNN IONNSN 
‘ oF .
s. oa. Ae ey ey te aeor  ton .
  . . .
 . . .* .
ah cl eae ea.) oe
  Coee
F  . ad .
eles Sear tae Sn
S OS ——— OOCaa—e—nOn  ———    , ee. LL LL
e iS ae cht. kas we liad Midwest sae :
a) os Si ny aeMt   oe fale "
 ———  CF VXrhV\WXh—“aomcmc SOS —- -- —-— -——v €— ((  OO
  Woes ae Seat se Ohtake wate eRe Va eat ‘
ele) :: Baeea Se Oi ae
co eaeEEE Ses ak We
Weeieh ees Oe erleee
 |e ciete. oes. Paine oe Cp ataen ereSee :
 am .Or oD "SD .
ro) Fay ma .
 eS
g fan's, she Tae   FS ae ar, Sra
R tf, ad om  NN
S re) . .
aA oe Fe apoS ag eae Sean :
aae  . ek Se
   
 |e iste inter ear Saker we  eh.  te low’. ai woke. dye ate   ea :
ee eeaa Sere ee
 — . .
  * . .
o . . .
a eF . . .
+ fe ol
o |S yer Fe ae shes Je eh aT  epee :
  &, . * .
 . * *
 . . .
é  . . .
  &, we . .
a . *. *
ti  . . .
aeBee See eo as
A . s- ave wat  Ee .
a ey ae   eS eA
a fest) Ce one  ee See
A So  Nn .
Me fx,  . .
Y
 Pele wh . .
me tr .  .
i  in . .
"  pee Tard faa ae Saar bie at ed Poa *) Gren Se "
|  ‘O-m .& ast .& oO  .
— i. mn  
. .   on .
. Pe Der es en ia  *
® aot nm Oo Mm tu oc .@ .
. “Fees tie bh @D i- Oo +
  a) mm. Oo owe Bars Se) tne oe .
joa] nm wo Ry vo ye fa .-  .
-  po on  be @® ae)  ov ad ao  ee
 Give PS Igo lS late ll ies) Be  DS  
 |
am faa  ty ae  be  
- pal -o Oo ar oS whe -Od D, OF Je ge .
  Min (oe tes (Snag: Spo ek fe :
re ets ™—a os Vata ty ae SRE Re: o*
m "Moe we SEs gy SAS is  ee
  cg: ae ae oy Sas eA. *o Shm Ong Hamas en  oo
  nod. ZVvAOSZSHO R
o Sek. yeoPosoNon  AGB FAms  
EGR   TOS AgssoPwed tose 
bb So fae eS. Froaktanea  
ao Oe OD @® Z) Ewe os
Seok sue gogcgm pul Skye OR Sra eae
oft Fe AA Ht OMOAd A

ore . Oo oe *“o OO rt Lo
.  *.  "
.* rire us GO ise) Ne Sr OOO rE CO
ae. 
. Oe te)
. . . (N
. . . fe ]
* . . “oD |
. - . Oe oe]
"—"  aN  . )
. . Oe en
. . Oe oe] “iQ
. . “oO
. . ‘re 
. .  |
. . . “iQ
. . 
. . "NI “oO
. . oe Ve)
. . . "a
. . . ae)
' re re ri NN “
. *. . 
- . “NN )
. . “—N |
. . “N Cm. ce  )
. . ol
NN . CO |
. .  |
.  “MOnmAna “N |
. . -“co
 . . Cae Ver)
 . “N j
. .  "Oo re |
. . 
. . . “LO
. . .
. . “mI NN ‘ro “oO . Oe|
. . . *@O |
. . rt NN Oe eI .
. . re
. . . “NN
. . . re
. . ere OO “io
. . 
. . On on LL 
. .- . .
. . . “iQ
. . Oe “oO
. .  “io
. *- . Oo en
* . Oe on “oA
. . Oe el
. . Oe oe Ih oe 
. . 
. . mm *oa
. . Ee
. . . Ce Ve)
. . . "QI
. onal wo —- . Or aS
.  . |
 .- Lo ME  S
. Oe ae  GO .  “i  
. co . (“oo oT
. . Oea
. oe - are.  @d  @
oe . -E dv .&  &
.  ma  to ns  We a)   ‘oO ag
Ss san et  -] bd oe CS @
. BY . aa  (x,
s sl on -S £  mes  es  song ae bo  ‘to oS
on Gage cf  So. oe tes CS es
o oO  ob ae an  AS C. iee  @d
  fg:  zo SERn EF HSES-" || 
RSE ait PE: Of  iGsOh Bas Bs
a) -S ba ie  Oe Saw BM...  
BS B:is .ASaD AIR FASCtR if aq
ts Se Fos Exapran seeguen os os ‘
oe  me enanonsesaaiskno  
See mae MSA Pri avin RQSea Hass  moa Ma. oao ,—  EX
fe Gea BESAEDOSLES

 ZT
,
 OIL
ai
 .
: —————————
eo
b
oe,  |— $$ a

rs |
oo   
  

pi
A y|— a
bx

if  |—— a
is )
)

So)  ;— —}—— nn
)

  Ov —— pn
O
z
  of} -] Pp
Ss
a  ,-— —— ——— 
fa,

  OL ——}|— —— ———
)
‘
te a
ba ®
: :
fd oe) :
 
rs  :
 ind ;
( nn a.
 Sj :
 ra by Si  
be i
S ()
  Ss 
. ‘So  os bs jc j:  a) os of Ss fo) jo) )
VY  €
s  “bo ra
bo oe cd a.
om oom Ss Sans Sng Sue rs) ome
jo)  eH Oy ea)  py a)  )
A

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
TABLE H.

Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city
and in the various institutions:

Ward we.     en   
Ward oo.     enc       
Ward oo...      ee  s 
Ward oo...      ene eaes  
Ward do...    eeneaee  —C
Ward oo... ce  teen  of
Ward  en      
Total  ...   nec   cence     
Holyoke City Hospital ...........  ...     
House of Providence Hospital ....................  
City Farm  ...  ... en   een    
Brightside  ...     eaee  
Beaven-Kelly Home .........  ...         
Harkins Home ...........  ...       
Mt. Marie  ...  ...   cc   eeas  
Holyoke Sanatorlum .........  ...   
Home for Aged People..........  ...     
Total  ...           oll
Total numer of deaths oceurring in wards and institNtIONS  ... cc    ee  eess  
Non-residentS ...  ...           nas  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH

TABLE J.
Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during
the year  :
Holyoke  ... ccce   teens  
Massachusetts .......  ...   ce rece ees  
Other States ......  ce   ce     ees  
Total United States...... ..... ...       
Treland  ... cc cc cc          
Canada ...... cc cc cc cc ce ce et    twee    
Germany  ...   tenet   
England ........  cc   nee  enes  
AUStI Loo   ce   et   
Russia ..  ec ce     t tee   nes |
Seotland o.oo... c          
France  ...   c cennce enone  
Hungary  ...     ence eaee  
SAPAN Loe     ence et en     
New Brunswick ...........  ...        ]
Unknown  ...      ce  ecence    
Total ...   ce       se  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
TABLE K.

Showing the interment of those dying in the city, and
those brought here for burial during (still-births ineluded) :

Calvary wo...             
Elinwo  ... c ence   eens  
Forestdale  ...  ...   cc    nees  
St. Jerome  ...       tence  ees  
Brightside  ...  ...        eens |
South Hadley Falls .......  ...   ec        
Out of Town (otherwise).............      
Local burials ......  ...   ce een eens  
Brought to Holyoke for burial....................  
Sent from Holyoke for burial. ....................  
Total number of burial permits issued.............  
DEATHS BY SEX AND AGE FROM JANUARY TO
DECEMBER .

Total Males Females
Under day................. to days.............. .. to daysS.............. ..  days to week............. )
  to weeks................. to weeks...........  weeks to month........... to months................  to months................ to months................ ot to months................  to months...............  
LT year .......  ... cc     

  REPORT OF THE BUARD OF HEALTH
 ZvVears co.cc     eens  DB VANS Lolee    
Sd VOAYS Coe    
D  to years...  ...     to years. ............... to years............. ..  to  years............ to yearS.......     to years.........  to vearS.....       to years........... .... to years............  
D  to Dt ears... ..  ...     to DO VearS.....  to  years........... d
  to years............ ..  to Th VearS..... ce    ,  to yearS........... 
SO to St years... .....     to SO years... ..      )
YO to  years....... ..  
Total ................ --.. 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
TABLE L.
Showing contagious diseases as reported by months:
gg gs f
 &®  Hh BZ GE
Diphtheria,  
Searlet fever,  
Measles,  ..  
Wp’g cough, .. .. .. Ll... .. Lit...  
Chicken pox, .. .. ..  ........  
Typh’dfever, ..  ..  
Tuberculosis,  
Op. N’torum,.. .. J... ..  ..  
- Small pox, ....  ..  ... ....  ...  
Total ....  
TABLE M.
Showing contagious diseases by wards:
  Total
Diphtheria,  
Searlet fever, lt  
Measles,  TH  
Whooping cough, .. ..  ... 
Chicken pox, .. 
Typhoid fever,  ...  
Tuberculosis, 
Oph. Neonatorum,  
Small pox, lo. wl,  
Total,  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the Board of
Health for the year ending November :
Board of Health—
Appropriation .......... ..     ees 
Additional appropriation ...............  
Receipts ....  ...     encase  
$ 
SalarieS ...  ...   ee    es§ »$ 
) Bills—
General expenses ........  ...        
Contagious diseases ........... cc      
Tuberculosis ......  ce   ec ce      
Milk department ............. 
$ 
Holyoke Sanatorium—
Appropriation .......... ..c     
Additional appropriation .............ee  
Receipts  ...         ees  
$ 
Salaries ..  ...              
Bills... ccce     teens  
$ 
Grand total ...........     . 
Respectfully submitted,
| MAURICE LYNCH,
J. S. WRIGHT,
J. J. CARROLL, M. D.,
Board of Health.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
Names of persons who ived money for supphes and
necessaries from the Board of Health for the year ending
 :
Formacone Company ............  ee   
C. Courtenay ...  ...       
Holyoke City Hospital.................... 
FL Waziarz  ...  ...   eens  
A. F. Larose  ...        
T. L. Breen ..  ... ens  
L. Cloutier Son... ..... cc ec     
Barrett Mfg. Co.  ... ens  
P. Caisse  ...       ees  
Win. Radner .......  ...    
Anna Johnston ..........          
Mary Sullivan .............    eens  
Ross Bray .......      ence een ence  
J. Russell Co...  eens  
J. Karakula ....  ...     ce  neces  
A. Symasko .........    eens  
Y. Powusoro .........  ...     een nes  
C. C. Hagar  ... cc ce   nee ees  
P. J. Murray Co...   
H. Carriere  ...         enees  
Jean McDonald ...............  ...       
Freeman Towel Supply ................ 
Strosenburgh Company ............  s  
M. J. Leahy ....... ce    
M. Dube  ... .. ce ete eens  
O. Beauregard .........        
F. L. Greaney .......      cc    
Mary Healy ...........   ence    
A. F. Glessmann .......  ...      
Goodall Drug Co. ....  ...   
P. H. Brennan .........  ...   eens  
W. Brooksbank ...............    

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
Fitzgerald Book and Art Co...................  
Sullivan Carmody ....... ce     
City Tee Company ....  ... ee    
G. H. Tbeens  
| American Pad Co. ..  ... e ene  
Dean Machine Co. ...  ... ens  
Creamery Pkg. Co.  ...  ...     
J. KE. Langlois ..  ...   
City of Fall River... ..  ...   
A. G. Elliott ..  ...  ene  
C. E. Hughes  ...  ce      
L. Ravnes wo... ce        
M. Johnson ......   e eens  
D. J. McCarthy oo...     
Parfitt Son oo...  ec      
State of Massachusetts ...... ......  
A. F. Gingras  ...nett  
E. J. Hussev, M.D... 
H.C. Lapointe  ...  ... ene  
A. D. Durocher  ... .. ce      
A. L. Codaire co...    c eens  
Collins Murray oo...  ...   ees  
A. J. Rand  ... cc cc ce eae  
International Instrument Co. ..............  
Lorenz Company ........  cc         
J. Bama... ce      eens  
P. A. Mahoney  ...  ce     
M. M. Murphy .......  ...    ce   
J. H. Fitzsimmons ..........         
House of Providence Hospital..................  
N. Merenre co...  ce      ees  
Kinsel Bros.  ... ccce       
U. Blanchard oo...  ...ee      
W.G. Grady oo...       
J.B. Quigley oo...    
UL S. Envelope Cor... ce  ee eens  
Kny, Scheerer Co.  ... ce     

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
Rutland Sanatorium .....  ...     
MeAuslan Wakelin  ...  ...  ne  
A. Hebert ..  ...  eeens  
Laporte Drug Co. ......  ...     Od
Heimritz Son wo... e tenes  ,. 
A. R. Vincent  ...ee      (). 
W.E. Martin  ...  ...ee ne  
C. Blais Co. oo. ce     
| H.’ Cleveland ...  ... eee  ! &. 
H. Donoghue  ...  ce    
City of Springfield ..........  ...        
D. J. Hebert ..  ...   
Westfield Sanatorium ......  ...   e 
Yahnig Burnett  ...  ...    
J. Goulet oo...ee  ete    
M. Frederichs ..........ee    eens  
C. E. Bardwell  ...  ...   ce eens H. BE. Miner, M.D... 
J.J. O'Flaherty o. ce      
Smith Drug Co.  ...          
Springfield Blanket Co.  ... .......... 
R. R. Nickerson ....  ... cc ee   
Japanese Tissue Mills ..............  
Board of Public Works................ 
Alling Rubber Co. .....  ... ce    
Fred Bray  ...  ...     ences  
E. Langlois .........           nes  
John Delaney Estate ...........      
Mary Sullivan  ...  ...          
W. A. Sparrow  ...           
B.& M.R. Ro...     
M. J. Judge...     
G. H. Sinclair  ... ec     
National Blank Book Co.......................  
F. H. Thomas Co......  ... cc   
L. Bosneck  ... cc e   
C. B. Sampson ...... ...  ce  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
M. Machnik  ...  cc          
W. J. Powers, M. Di... oe nee  
QO. Beaudoin  ...ce  eens  
BE as 
- A. K. MeDonald .........     ees  
JV. Dwyer  ... ce  eens  
N. C. Havner  ...  ...      ees  
Barlow Mfg. Co. ..  ... cc ce   teens  
M. Gaughan  ...  ... ens  
Groise Bros.  ...  ...  ce et     eens  
Gilbert Barker  ... cc ce   
International Chemieal Co. ................  
Anna Walsh ........  ...  eens  
City of Boston ........  ...        
H. L. Mousett  ...  ce      
Curran Bros.  ...  ...eeee   
G. F. O'Connor  ... ees  
Magri Bros. ....  ... e    ,  
T. R. Humeston  ...  ...  ...   ce   
N.S. Wilson  ...  ... cc    ee      
C. B. Dolge Cor... ce     
Shea MeKenna .......  ... ce     
Yawman Erbe ......... ..  ...  
Stamped envelopes .........       ewes  
BE. W. Donoghue ........  ...      
R. A. Prentiss ...  ...  ees  
Mass. Experiment Station ............... 
Transeript Publishing Co. ............. ....  
Telegram Publishing Co. ........ .......  
Sheldon Transfer .......  ...      
Anker Printing Co. ....  ...    —
JoN. Chapman .......     eens  
John Doyle oo... ec ce          
Flynn Drug Co.  ...       
Ely Lumber Co. ....  ...   ee    
Riker Jaynes Co...  ...       
Price, Lee Co. oo...       

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
James O'Connor ......  c.     etnies  
M. C. Tobin oo...     :
Emerson Laboratory Co. .........-...  
JS. Kane  ...     
W. Troinbowsky ............         
M. Vollert ..  ...     ce        
H. C. Butcher oo...ee ees  
G. J. Prew Co. oo. cc       
W. J. Schauer  ...  ec    
J.B. Shea oo...    t    
D. M. Foley  ...  ...    enews  
City of Chicopee .........  ...  eens  
J.R. Smith oo... cc      
T.S. Childs ..  ...     cc ce     
Naumkeag Clothing Co.  ...  ...      
. Alice Elhott  ...    cc e      
Sutton Publishing Co. ...............     
Swift Co. oo. ce        
New England Tel. Tel. Co.................. ..  
M. J. Laporte ..  ...   ees  
R. T. Oakes Co.  ... cc ce ce      
Holyoke Street Railway Co................. ..  
American Express Co. ..........  ...        
William Kronick ...........          
S. Davis Sons ......  ...      
City of Pittsfield  ...  ...    eeee  
Ferguson Laundry ...........    ees  
Gas and Electric Department ................ 
Frank Bray wo...    teen    
West Disinfectant Co. .......   ees  
A. Ostrowski  ...          
A.C. Menard  ...  ...   ce   ees  
| J. F. Kennedy .........     eens  
Sam Solin .......  ... cc         
B. T. Silverman .........  ...     ees  
Whiting Coal Co.  ... cc   D. B. Kelton Co......  ...    ee ees 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
Mansir Printing Co. .....  ...ees  
A. McGuire  ...  ...    ees  
Winthrop Fruit Co. .....  ... ec    
A. Steiger Co...    nee    
R. H. Smith ...  ... teens  
BE. A. Dorsey  ...    eens  
C. M. Guyott .......    
Livermore Martin ........ ...  ... cc      
G. E. Russell Co...ee    
Preston, Moore Electric Co. .......... ......  
F. T. Porter  ...  ...  ce   ees  
Somerville Brush Co.  ...    
American Soap Co. .......       eens  

Report of the Health Officer.

To the Board of Health of the City of Holyoke:

Gentlemen :—I herewith submit my report for the year
ending November :
Number of complaints investigated ..............  
Number of tenements inspected .............. -.  
Number of tenements ordered cleaned............  
Number of cellars inspected ............. .. 
Number of cellars ordered cleaned ..............  
Number of yards inspected ................  
Number of yards ordered cleaned ...............  d
Number of ash chutes ordered cleaned...........  
Number of stables inspected ................  
Number of stables ordered cleaned ..............  
Number of cesspools ordered cleaned ............  
Number of privy vaults ordered cleaned..........  
Number of cellars (hens and pigeons ordered removed from) ........        teens  
Number of cellars (pigs ordered removed from)...  
Number of swill cans ordered cleaned............  
Number of mattresses destroyed ................  
Number of notices sent ..........      
Number of dead animals removed ...............  
Number of cases posted ...........  cence  
Number of rooms fumigated ....................  
Number of school rooms fumigated..............  
Number of inspections, stores and markets........  
Number of school permits given .................  

Respectfully submitted,
J.S. WRIGHT,
Health Officer.

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing.
To the Board of Health:

Gentlemen :—As Inspector of Plumbing, have the honor
of subinitting the twentieth annual report for the fiscal year
ending November .

The following table will show to some extent the amount
and nature of the work:

Water closets put in new buildings..............  
Sinks put in new buildings...............---  
Baths put in new buildings.................. 
Bowls put in new buildings..................  
Wash trays put in new buildings..................  
Urinals put new buildings..................-..  
Traps put in new buildings.......................  
Water closets put in old buildings................  
Sinks put in old buildings. ............. 
Baths put in old buildings....................  
Bowls put im old buildings....................  
Wash trays put in old buildings..................  
Urinals put in old buildings...................  
Traps put in old buildings....................  
Plumbing permits granted.............    
Sewer permits granted. ....  ...       
Plumbing inspections ...........     
Water tests made... ...             
Inspecticus of old and new phimbing..............  
Sewer InspectloOns  ...  ...  ee      

The usual number of complaints and nuisanees have been
Investigated and upon verbal notice the requirements of the
Board have bees compled with.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  

The department notes decided decrease of plumbing
plans as per previous years, which can be attributed to a
less number of new buildings erected and less alterations
and additions on old property.

The recent codification of the city ordinances affects
plumbing materjally and as soon as same can be printed
and served upon the plumbers the present dissatisfaction .
will be eliminated and the department and publie will again
have thorough understanding and confidence.

A few cases of failure to fully comply to the ordinance
are in the hands of the Board and will be brought up for
consideration in the near future.

In conclusion desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and co-operation.

Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.

REPORT OF THE
Inspector of Meats and Provisions.

To the Board of Health, City of Holyoke:
Gentlemen :—The following is my report, as Inspector of
. Meat and Provisions, for the year ending November .
Total inspections, markets..............    
Total inspections, fruit stores............... 
Total number of visits to slaughter house...........  
Total number cattle slaughtered...................  
Total number veal slaughtered................  
Total number swine slaughtered..................  

The following food-stuffs have been condemned, as bein |
unfit for human consumption:

Beet, pounds. Carrots, bushels.

Pork, pounds. Sweet potatoes, bushel.

Veal, pounds. Apples,  bushel.

Lamb, pounds. Onions, bushels.

Sausage, pounds. Potatoes, barrels.

Liver, pounds. Strawberries, baskets.

Turkey, pounds. Oranges, boxes.

Fowl, pounds. Strawberries, boxes.

Pigs’ feet, pounds. Pineapples,  .

Blood, gallons. Peaches, cases.

Fish, pounds. Melons,  .

Sauer-kraut, pounds. Melons, erates.

December Discovered ‘‘tubereular’’ cow,
stamped by an out-of-town inspector, and offered for sale
in local market. Careass, weighing pounds, condemned and sent to Abbott’s soap factory.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  

April One cow killed and stamped at Belchertown, Mass., and sold to local marketman as No. beef.
Your Inspector found evidenee proving the animal had been
afflicted with tubereulosis and prosecuted the case, after
condemning ecareass and sending to rendering plant. Man
selling dead animal was found guilty in police court and
fined  Appealed to Superior court where he was
fined  with costs.

Veal weighing pounds, killed and stamped at Belchertown, Mass., found hidden on premises of loeal butcher, and .
only produced after he had been threatened with arrest.
Fined  in police court for having underweight veal in
his possession with intent to sell, and mterfering with Inspector while discharging his duties, and not producing veal
on request. Man selling it to him was fined .

These prosecutions have had salutary effect and more
strict comphance with the law is the result.

The Inspector is indebted to the members of the Board
for their co-operation in all matters dealing with his respective duties, and is most appreciative of the help and eourtesies extended.

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN M. CARLON,
Inspector of Meat and Provisions.

REPORT OF THE
Inspector of Milk and Vinegar.
To the Board of Health:

Gentlemen :—I hereby submit my report for the year ending November .
Total number of licenses granted.................  
Total number granted to stores...................  
Total number granted to peddlers................  
Number granted for sale of oleomargarine.........  
Money received for distilled water............... 
Paid into city treasury as fees received........... 
Number of quarts of sweet milk sold daily.........  
Nuinber of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily......  
Number of quarts of buttermilk sold daily.........  
Number of quarts of cream sold daily..............  
Number of samples tested, milk..................  
Number of samples tested, cream. ...............  
Number of samples tested, ice cream..............  
. Number of samples tested, vinegar................  
Number of samples tested, kerosene...............  
Human milk tested. .........  ...  cc     
Number of warnings sent......... eens  
Number of places inspected where milk is kept for sale  

I would suggest to the physicians of the city that if they
desire the human milk tested that would be pleased to do
the same.

In conelusion desire to thank the members of the Board
of Health, also my assistant, Mr. Edward O’Connell, for
their courtesy and co-operation.

Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL P. HARTNETT,
Inspector of Mil’

Report of the Bacteriologist.
To the Honorable, the Board of Health: |

Gentlemen :—I herewith submit my report on specimens
submitted to me for laboratory examination during the year
ending Nov. .

DIPHTHERIA. |

During the year there were swabs subinitted for diagnosis. Of these were positive and negative. There
Were eleven release swabs examimed in cases that had been
reported to your Board but in which no diagnosis swab had
been taken.

November showed the largest number of positive diagnoses for any one month whereas June was the lightest
month, we having examined during that month but one positive swab for diagnosis.

TUBERCULOSIS.

Each year shows an increase in the number of sputum exaiminations. This is due in part to the fact that your Board
requires positive sputum before admitting patient to
the Sanatorium and in part to the faet that physicians realize more and more as each year passes, the value of laboratory examinations of sputum in doubtful cases. This is
demonstrated by the fact that out of total of specimens but  or per cent, were positive.

 TYPHOID FEVER.

There were specimens of blood submitted for Widal
tests during the year, of which three were positive and nine
negative.

  REPORT OF THE BUARD OF HEALTH
OPHTHALMIA NEONATORUEM.

I would again suggest that your Board msist that smear
be taken from every discharging eye of the new-born.

I would further suggest that the Board appoint some physician to take the final release swab in all eases of diphtheria
as In this Way we are more apt to obtam satisfactory results. 

In conelusion allow me to thank the members of the Board
and its attaches for the courteous treatment and co-operation
accorded me during the year.

Appended you will find tabulated report of all examinations made in the laboratory durmg the year.

Very respectfully,
J.J. CARROLL, M. D.,
Bacteriologist.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
DIPHTHERIA.

Diagncsis Relea:e Total Total
Pos. Neg. Pos. Neg. Cases Cultures
Deceiber, .. 
January, ..  
February, jl  
March, 
April,  
May,  
June,  
July, .. 
August, we  
September,  .. 
October,  
November,  
Percentage of positives in swabs submitted for diagnosis,  .

TUBERCULOSIS. |

;  £€ ge  Be ge F

 
Positive, 
Negative,  
Total,  

TYPHOID FEVER.
Positive, .. .. .. .. weweee Od  
Negative,  ...  ...  ... .. .. 
Total,  
SUMMARY.

Swabs examined for diphtheria...................  
Sputum examined for tubereulosis................  
Blood examined for typhoid......................  
Total laboratory examimations..................  

 Report of the Holyoke Sanatorium
To the Board of Health of the City of Holyoke:

Gentlemen :—I have the honor of submitting the second
annual report of the Holyoke Sanatorium for the year ending November .

MAINTENANCE ACCOUNT.
Expended by Board of Health—
Salaries to physicians .................  
Salaries to nurses .............    
Salaries of help ................ ..- +--+.  
Substitute nurses ......  ...       
Substitute help ........  ...     
$ 
Food—
Meats, poultry, fish, vegetables, ete........... 
Groceries (flour, butter, sugar, canned goods,

CTO. Loc       tee  ce 
Milk...    
BES     eens  
Frit  ... tte eens  
Tea, coffee, COCOA...      

$ 

Miscellaneous—
Drugs and hospital supplies................. 
Dry goods (toweling, table lnen, ete.)........  
Paper goods (cups, napkins, toilet paper, ete.).  
Sweeping compound (Dust-down) ...........  
Soap (hquid, soap powder, ete.).............  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
Rubber goods (bags, caps, bed rings, ete.)....  
Office supplies (ink, pads, charts, ete.).......  
Ambulanee, cartage, freight, ete..............  
Kitchen supphes (crockery, ete.)............  
Disinfectants  ...  ... cc ecw      
TOQ coc  eee teen    
Barber wo...   ce ce       
Sundry aecount  ...  ... ee ees  
$ 
Expended by Board of Pubhe Works—
Heat, light and water supply.
Fuel oo... cee  
Eleetricity  ...  ...   e ence eens  
Water  .  n     ees  
$ 
City Property.
Repairs and improvements............. 
Pumping Station.
Fuel  .  ec  een ees  
Lighting (power) .........  ees  
City property .......    |
$ 
Total expense for maintenance............... 
, EQUIPMENT ACCOUNT.
Expended by Board of Health—
Dishwasher, labor, ete...........  ce  
Six tents, labor, ete... ..  ...      
Electric fan ...  ...   ees  
Tee-cream freezer...  ...   ees  
Electric flat-iron .....  ... ce       —
Water tank  ...  ... cc  nes  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
Bedding (blankets, spreads, sheets, ete.)......  
Furniture (beds, cots, tables, chairs, rugs, ete.)  
Clothing, shoes, ete. (patients)..............  
Expended by Board of Public Works—
Storm windows ............       
Awnings for porches ..........     eae  
Trees, shrubs, flowers, ete...  ... ce    
$ 
Total expense for eqiupment ................ 
CASH ACCOUNT
From trustees of hospitals for consumptives.... 
From State Board of Charity..................  
Fromm individual patient................  
$ 
PER CAPITA.
Average number of patients per day........... CO
Total expenses for maintenance................ 
Average daily expense for maintenance one patient co...eeee      
ADMISSIONS AND DISCHARGES.
Number of patients remaining in Sanatorium November .oe    
Number of patients admitted during vear......... ol
Number of patients treated during vear...........  
Number of patients discharged improved..........  
Number of patients discharged not improved....  
Number of deaths  ...  ...        
Number of patients remaining in Sanatorium November  .o oc. ens  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH ,

CONDITION OF PATIENTS ON ADMISSION.

Incipient  ...  ... ce   teeees  

Moderately advanced ...............     

Advanced  ... ...   cc      eens  

Thanking the Board of Health for courtesy and co-operation, also the visiting physicians and assistant nurses, the

report of the year is respectfully submitted.
MARGARET G. HEALY,
Superintendent.

REPORT OF THE
G ectric Department 
as and El Departmen
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen.

Gentlemen: have the honor to submit herewith the

report of the Gas and Electric Department for the year
— ending November the same being the eleventh annual report of the department.

THE GAS WORKS.

The gas sent out was cubie feet, an imerease
of cubic feet over the amount sent out In  .
Abcut feet of gas mains were laid, new gas services run and new gas meters set, making the total
munber of gas meters in service  .

Coal gas was made for the first time on Nevember  th
last with the new gas plant. The system is known as the
Woodall-Duckhain system and consists of six vertical retorts guaranteed to make cubic feet of gas in twentyfour hours, with vield per pound of coal of eubie feet
of p. gas and B. T. U.’s gross, with eoke consumption in the producers of Ibs. per Ibs. carbonized, with
  lbs. of ammonia and gallons of tar ner net ton carhbenized.

The retort house building is  feet long, feet wide,
  feet high with monitor feet high, all of skeleton
steel construction with conerete sides, floor and roof.

New condensing apparatus with capacity of  
eubie feet of gas in twenty-four hours has been placed in
the old condenser building. This new apparatus consists of
one Mackenzie exhauster, one primary condenser, one tar


