MUNICIPAL REGISTER
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE»...
FOR  
Containing the Mayor's Address
City Government Roster
| Annual Reports
Etc.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN
| LAG
SEN
| te Dup.  
Coie D. of D.
|
TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CO.,
HOLYOKE, MASS.
EEO
 .
Exchange Duplicate, L. c.

ee ees ofe te one  oe
JD  ,
oye Ne
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.
RECEIVED
MAY  
DOCUMENTS wb V. ION

px!
OO, ,
 
CONTENTS

PAGE

Mayor’s Address.  
City Government,   i
Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen.  
City Offeers ee
Election Officers —.  d
Report of Board of Water Commissioners —.  
Report of Sehool Department.  
Report of Voeational School.  
Report of Fire Commissioners   
Report. of Gas and Klectrié Department —.  
Report. of Playground Commissioners —.  
Report of Board of Health Coo 
Report of City Solicitor Co bei
Report of Board of Park Commissioners  
Repert. of City Engineer  
Report. of Sinking Fund Commissioners  
Report of Board of Assessors  
Report. of Sealer of Weights and Measures 
Report of the City Auditor  
Report. of the City Treasurer  
Report of Overseers of the Poor olf
Report cf Department of Police —. oss
Report of Roard of Pubhe Works  
Jury List. for .  
City Officers Since   
Ordinances .  

Digitized by Google

INAUGURAL ADDRESS
OF
| MAYOR
City of Holyoke, Massachusetts
oe mate
CER SERS
MINE 
AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE
CITY 'GOVERNMENT IN JANUARY
NINETEEN HUNDRED FIFTEEN


/ 
wT .

J

a
, )
|
|
 

INAUGURAL ADDRESS
OF
MAYOR JOHN H. WOODS
JANUARY 
To the Honorable, the Board of Aldermen
of the City of Holyoke:

At the opening of another civic vear we are gathered
here to take brief survey of what has taken place during the past year and to discuss in general way the pollcies which we should follow in the vear before us. It
should be matter of no small satisfaction to you and to
me to know that as result of our efforts during the past

. twelve months the condition of the city’s business affairs
is better than when we took charge vear ago. It should
be our aim to make the record even more satisfactory than the record, and to tlis end ask in the
name of the citizens who have elected vou and me to our
offices of honor and trust, the same hearty co-operation

with the Mavor that has been so evident during tlie past
vear.

In discussing the records of the various departments,
I wish to lay special emphasis on the recommendations
made, and at the same time to give credit where credit is
due the different departments for work well done during
the past year. We are chiefly concerned with the present

  MAYOR ADDRESS
and the future, wlile the past is valuable only as it points |
out the best way to meet the problems that lay about us,
awaiting solution. |
FINANCES. |
. year ago stated that we were facing  tax  
rate. As the estimates for the needs of the departments
were filed, it seemed as if even nineteen dollar rate would |
be insufficient. The departmental requirements were cut |
to the lowest possible figure, and by keeping the need of
economy ever before us, we managed to make rate un- |
, der nineteen dollars, and after meeting all of the vear’s
demands with its normal increase and the liabilities inherited from the previous administration, an  tax |
rate was found not alone to be sufficient, but to enable us
to close the year with surplus of over nineteen thousand
dollars. |
It will be recalled that  October we faced shortage ,
in the Rehef Department due to two reasons: first, the. |
abnormal eall for rehef caused by slack times; and next,
an additional expense imposed by the operation of the
Mothers’ Dependeney law. We found it necessary to borrow  for six months to meet this demand. How- |
ever, this loan of  becomes no part of the burden ,
of beeause we have already provided for its pay- !
ment out of this vear’s surplus. :
To put it concisely, the administration of met all
of its own obligations, the overdrafts of  the pay- |
ments of this enforced loan of and still have left |
over  in surplus. feel that have right to
proudly point to very successful year’s administration.

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  

The gross debt, November was —
a decrease of  over  Of this amount added to
the gross debt,  was for the Gas and Electric Department.

The net debt November was a

decrease of  over  .
. During there will be paid off the entire city debt,
$  as follows: City Debt from Sinking Fund, from Taxation, Water Debt, Holvoke and Westfield Railroad debt, Gas and Flectrie plant debt, .

The borrowing capacity, November was
$ as against  in  gain for of
$ .

The valuation for is an increase
over of .

The fixed charges, such as interest, debt payments,
sinking funds, state and county taxes, will be about  or  on the total tax rate during the coming vear.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

The city lighting department has done considerable
amount of constructive work during the past year, and  s
again in fair way to be considered one of the citv’s most
valuable investments. The report of the gas works shows
that there was normal increase in the output. The services of an expert chemist have been secured during the
vear with very satisfactory results.

Buildings have been erected, or are in process of erection, to make marketable the by-products of the gas works
and from the sale of these and an expected increase in the

  MAYOR ADDRESS

sale of gas, it is thought that the revenue of the works will

be increased so that gas mav be sold at ninety cents a

thousand feet. Permission to do this has already been

granted the departments by the state gas commission.

The new gas plant has never been accepted, as it has |
failed to fulfill the guarantee required when the contract |
was let. This matter is still hanging fire and will probably call for radical action during the coming year.

Numerous complaints as to the gas pressure in cer- .
tain sections of the city have led the department to inves- !
tigate, and it lias been found that the trouble was due to
the size of the mains. During the coming vear, It is intended to lay new mains, and to increase the size of some
already laid in order to relieve this condition.

At the electric station very extensive improvements
have been made in machinery and extensions and large
amount of underground work has been completed. The
putting of the wires underground has already cost the de- :
partment During the vear the promise has
been made to install new lights on Main street from
Mosher to Sargeant street.

The department is now supplying electricity to the
Town of South Hadley under one vear contract at an
advantageous rate. ,

The income from the gas and electric department for |
the vear has been and of this  has been |
expended in additions and extensions. |

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

This department has accomplished much important

work during the past vear; many nnprovements of per] MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
Inanent nature, such as sidewalks, sewers and Inghway
| construction were begun and completed. During the year
the Cabot street bridge was re-opened after having been
closed for period of two years. The cost of repairing
the bridge was all of which was borne by the
Holyoke Street Railway Company. This year the bridges

of the city will require repainting.

During the year total of feet, or  miles,
were added to our permanent roadways, all of this work
being done in manner to secure the greatest possible

durability. Progressive cities all over the country are
now comnnitted to policy of building their own streets
instead of having the work done by contract. It would
seem to be the proper time to do this in Holvoke, and the
board will probably take steps in this direction the coming year.

About three nules of new walks have been completed
during the vear, and for the first time in the history of
the city, tar conerete has been entirely excluded in this
work. While the initial cost is higher, the final cost is as
low as that of tar walks, and the result is in reality saving to the city.

Much sewer work has been completed durmg the .
vear, one of the greatest improvements being the construction of system in the Highland Park section. This
is part of the city that has advanced by strides into a
large and beautiful residential section, and the need of  
sewerage svstem was an imperative one. Being built at
a time when so many worthy citizens were in need of
work, double end was served in the construction, and
hundreds of men were given an opportunity of securimg a
few weeks’ wages.

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS
SCHOOL DEPARTMENT. |
The greatest of all our institutions is the public school, |
and this departinent of the City Government has been conducted in creditable manner. Careful has been the management under the guidance of our Superintendent, and
the future, am sure, will be eared for in the same careful manner. Many of our citizens are unaware of the
finely equipped industrial school now in operation.
Young people completing course in this department seeure foundation of worth which fits them in manner
understandingly for future work.
The future will see Central Grammar School which
is very much needed. Work in that direction has started |
with the committee in charge, and an architect has been |
engaged to prepare plans. Before any definite work begins In construction, the committee and the Board of Publie Works will know exactly what is wanted. Experience
of the past has taught this lesson.
WATER DEPARTMENT.
The water department during the past vear has continued to maintain the high standard of former vears and
much work has been accomplished along the line of constructing new mains to further increase the protective resources of the eity. The condition of the water supply |
for the vear has been very satisfactory. |
The income of the department is considerably in excess of the expenditures, the result of careful manage- |
ment of the past and present, and it seeins possible that a
further reduction of the water rates can be expected be- !
fore very long, especially as no large amount of permanent work is necessary in the near future. |
|

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
POLICE DEPARTMENT.

This department has shown improvement under the
present Marshal, John R. Harrington. Better discipline
is noticeable. Inspection of men before going on duty  s
a new feature where heretofore it was entirely ignored.
Each squad of men before leaving the station must show
to superior officer his full equipment, revolver, handcuffs, keys, and so forth. The petty jealousies which
heretofore existed have been largely eliminated. There
have been no favorites among the men with the head of
the department. However, the department is not vet
what it should be, although much improved over the past.

The City of Holvoke has been fair with the members,
and most of the members have been fair with the City of
Holyoke; but there are always some who take unfair advantages such as regarding illness, which the city in the
past has never questioned. From reeords which have
examimed, find that the healthiest and the strongest men
are continually absent on account of sickness. If aman is
really ill, no one will find fault, but when the number of
days runs from thirty-five to fifty, and this is repeated
vear after vear, it is time to call halt.

From this date, men absent from duty will be required to furnish doctor’s certificate. The total amount
of money which was paid out during the vear to men who
did not earn it was The number of davs of total absence from the Department figured  equivalent
to two vears for one man.

LAW ENFORCEMENT.

I feel, as citizen of Holvoke, that certain laws, especially the liquor laws have not been lived up to in the

  MAYOR ADDRESS |
manner in which they should be. know that the city has
had for vears an unfavorable reputation. That day has
ceased. feel that the majority of the dealers wish !
to observe the laws but that others are indifferent in this }
respect. want it thoroughly understood that the law
must be observed. want it further understood that ,
these so-called ‘‘elubs’’ which have been running and
selling liquor on the quiet must at once stop this practice.
I look to the police officer on whose beat such places are
located to get the evidence and report it to the Marshal.
Any officer who so fails to do his duty and the proof  s
shown can expect the full penalty for neglect of duty. I
believe the citizens of Holvoke want the city conducted in |
a clean manner, and propose to do all in my power to
have it done.
POLICE ANNEX BUILDING. i

During the vear the police department will be in- |
stalled in the new quarters provided for it in the City Hall
Annex. It is to be regretted that wlile the city was en- |
gaged in this work that more. suitable location was not
provided for the new police building. However, we have
done all in our power to make the best of very bad bargain. ,

The Marshal in his report urges the appointment of
more patrolnen, as it appears that in some sections of the !
city the beats are far too large to be effectively patrolled.
If the finances of the city warrant, expect to reeommend |
the addition of at least part of the number asked for by
the Marshal.

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
BOARD OF HEALTH.
The pressing problem of the Board of Health is the
| erection of contagious disease hospital. This has been
under discussion for number of years, and the time has
certainly arrived for action. During the past vear there
have been on unusual number of cases of diphtheria and
at Springdale at one time the conditions became epidemic. In all over four hundred cases of diphtheria and
scarlet fever were reported during the year. It is manifestly impossible to handle so many cases without contagious hospital. The new hospital will have to be pro- ,
vided for as early in the year as possible.

The department has asked for extra inspectors. This
will be given the attention it deserves at the proper time.
BOARD OF ASSESSORS.

The Assessors’ office as in the past has kept up the
same systematic manner of doing business, and information which is required from this department is ready and
where anyone can find It.

ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.

This department has been called upon to do considerable work the past year and has acquitted itself well.
A recent act of the Legislature requires the city to regulate the installation and inspection of elevators. This task
will require the services of skilled mechanic, and such
an inspector must soon be appointed.

HOLYOKE HYGIENE ASSOCIATION.

Holyoke is pioneer in the work of saving its babies,
and only words of praise can be spoken for the Infant IHyv  MAYOR'S ADDRESS |
giene Association. Beginning in small way in  the
association administers to the needs of more than hundred babies each day with very appreciable effect on the
infant mortality rate. It is an institution patronized by
all classes, and the annual appropriation made by the city
is an investment with rich returns.
CITY PLANNING BOARD.
The report of the Planning Board is one of progress. |
The members, all of whom are highly respected citizens,
have given up no little time to the duties of their offices
and have already evolved tentative plans for number of
improvements for the city. No appropriation has been ,
made for this board and consequently the members have
been handicapped in their work. It seems as though such
an important branch of the City Government should not ,
labor under such handicaps, and an attempt should be
made to reheve them from this burden.
|
CHARTER REVISION. |
One of the very important matters taken up during
the past year was the consideration of changes in the city
charter. At the order of the Board of Aldermen, commission was appointed to study the problem, and thev
have held frequent public hearings which have served to !
arouse interest in the subject of charter revision. Tis is |
something that the commission is wiselv taking its time |
about, and feel confident that they have the interest of
the city so much at heart that the solution they finally
reach will be very satisfactory one. |
|

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
SECRETARY TO THE MAYOR.

The duties of the public demand that the Mayor’s
office be opened all dav and the detail work requires constant attention. Accordingly it seems best to me to appoint secretary who shall look after the details and shall
be in the office during the day. feel that the city wilt

: reap benefit from such an appointment.
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.

The Park Commissioners in their report make the
request for an appropriation to erect bridge to span the
Dingle. This bridge will serve both useful and artistic
purpose, and believe the appropriation should be made
during the present vear. During the past vear the park
svstem has been well cared for, and very wise iImprovement made was the construction of fence along the street
side of Riverside Park.

The Playground Commissioners, too, have been conscientious in their work the past vear. The acquirement
of the additional playground near the Morgan school and
the arrangement by which the citv acquired the use of the
new Prospect playground were both praiseworthy steps.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

The Fire Commissioners in their report regret that
they have not been able to install the new svstem. Inasmuch as they fail to explain whv they were unable, feel
it my duty to do so. In the early part of the year, the
Commission with the Fire Chief, the Superintendent of
Fire Alarms and the Mavor visited Albany, Cleveland
and Louisville, Ky., to examine outfits of the Star Elec;
  MAYOR'S ADDRESS |
trie Company, the lowest bidder. In each of the abovementioned cities, perfect satisfaction was the verdict from
those in charge. |
In Cleveland, the Mayor, the Superintendent of fire |
alarms and the Chief spoke in the highest terms of the
svstem, and in this particular city the system has been in ]
operation for dozen years, and the upkeep for that time |
cost the city but forty-five dollars. )
We spent the city’s money on that trip to get infor- :
mation and the information we received was favorable to
the Star Electric Company, and so reported back to the |
Board of Aldermen, and as result that Board voted some |
$  to install the Star svstem, the lowest bidders.
That money is still waiting to be put into use, but the Commission for some reason seem determined that the city
shall pay  more for another system. |
The City of Holyoke doesn’t intend to delay much |
longer in this matter, nor does the city intend that the
highest bidder shall loan an outfit to the city when it has !
the money to pay for one. This department is expensive
enough without adding  extra onto the taxpayers. .
| CONCLUSION. |
I can see no reason why the City of Holvoke should
longer delav business methods in her different departiments. corporation of this magnitude should buy all |
supplies as does private concern. believe the city of
Holvoke could save an iminense sum of money by having
a purchasing agent of ability. Thousands and thousands |
of dollars are annually wasted through the present svs- |
tem of buying in the city departments. From my expert- !
|
|
| |
|

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
ence of one year, can plainly see that this method of doing business is expensive. The city should buy at wholesale everything used in its different departments, thereby
saving much money for the taxpayers.

The result of the aldermanic investigation of last
vear in single department, that of the Overseers of the
Poor, demonstrated this fact clearly. Rehable experts
stated that at least five thousand dollars might be saved
each year by the adoption of business like buving svstem and average business methods.

In closing wish to thank the different department
heads and Boards for their hearty co-operation during the
past vear.

|

: OF THE
MAYOR.
HON. JOHN I. WOODS.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
WILLIAM BE. BOSWORTH.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For One Year.)
ALBERT ARCHAMBAULT, JAMIES E. CREAN,

JOIIN P. BLEASIUS, EDWARD F. DOWD,
FREDERICK CHILDS, ARCHIBALD FERGUSON,
JOHN STALKER.

MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For Two Years.)
WILLIAM BE. BOSWORTH,  -L. ALPHONSE LAPORTE,
WILLIAM G. CANTIN, DANIEL LONG,
JOSEPH F. GRIFFIN, DANIEL FL SITE A,
HENRY F. THORPE.

 CITY OFFICERS
MEMBERS OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward  —LOUIS H. PREVOST.
Ward  —PVPETER L. JARRY.
Ward  —JOSEPILT M. TOEPEFERT.
Ward  —-CHARLES F. McMAHON,
Ward  —JAMES F. SWEENEY.
Ward  —GEORGE IEAMEEH.
Ward  T—SAMUEL O. HOYT.
CITY CLERK.
JOUN F. SUEEILTAN,
ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
DANIEL J. WARTNETT.
CITY MESSENGER,
WILLIAM T. WALSIT.
CLERK OF COMMITTEES.
JOIIN C. DORAN,

Fixnance.—John H. Woods, Mavor, Wilham E. Bosworth, President of Board of Aldermen, Aldermen Laporte,
Griffin, MieMahon.

Orpinances.—Aldermen Stalker, Dowd, Shea, Toepfert, ,
Cantin.

ChLaimMs.—Aldermen Toepfert, Hoyt, Jarry, Prevost,
Crean.

STREET FRANCHISES.—Aldermen Crean, Griffin, McMahon,
Cantin, Laporte.

Ruues.—Aldermen Tloyvt, Hamel, Prevost, Childs, Ferguson.

Licenses.—Aldermen Dowd, Laporte, Griffin, Prevost,
Jarry.

STATE AND Minitary AID AND SOLDIERS” ReLrer.—AI|dermen Cantin, Hoyt, Crean, Ferguson, Sweeney.

ENROLLMENT.—Aldermen MeMahon, Toepfert, Stalker,
Sweeney, Childs.

Mtunicipan Ligtting.—Aldermen Shea, Sweeney, Stalker,
Dowd, Hamel.

River NaviGation, TRADES AND TNptstrizs.—Aldermen
Childs, Bleasius, Thorpe, Archambault, Lone.

Epucation.—Aldermen Archambault, Thorpe, Bleasius,
Long, Ferguson.

CITY TREASURER.
Pierre Bonvouloir, Oftice, Room  City Hall
Elected annually at the Municipal Election.
CITY AUDITOR.

Damel W. Keiney,  Office, City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.

Henry Winkler, Office, Commercial street
Appointed annually by the Board of Publie Works.
CITY ENGINEER.

Timothy J. MaeCarthy,  Office, City Hall
Appointed every three years by the Mayor.

CITY SOLICITOR,

Thomas C. Maher, Office, Main street
Appointed annually by the Mayor.

CITY PHYSICHAN.

William P. Ryan, Office, Maple street

| Kleeted annually by the Board of Aldermen.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Office, City Hall
Appointed annually by the Mayor.

CITY OFFICERS  
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Thomas J. Lyneh, Chairman, Term expires  
James A. Allen, Term expires  
Israel Ducharme, Term expires  
Timothy J. MaeCarthy, Clerk, Oscar C. Ferry, Asst. Clerk
Members of the Board appointed by the Mavor.
ASSESSORS OF TAXES.
Joseph J. Kelly, Chairman, Term expires  
Jeremiah J. Keane, Secretary, Term expires  
William G. Beaudro, Term expires  
' ASSISTANT ASSESSOR.
Michael J. Grady, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
. COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
James M. Kennedy,  Office, Room  City [all
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
Frank A. McCabe,
Appointed by Collector of Taxes.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
Frank J. Connell,  .
Appointed by the Mayor.
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Frank Rainault, Chairman, Term expires  
Patnck J. Dowd, Secretary, Term expires  
Henry Baush, Term expires  
John J. Byrnes, Almoner,  ,
Eleeted by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS
BOARD OF HEALTH.
William J. Powers, M.  D.,  Frank A. Woods, M. D.,  
John J. Burke,  ,
' Appomted by the Mavor.
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer.
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
Charles U. Roy, Term expires  
Robert E. Neweomb, Term expires  
James Hf. O'Connell, Term expires  
Appointed by the Mavor.
John Wildreth, Seeretary.
LICENSING BOARD.
David C. Downing, Chairman, Term expires  
Thomas J. O'Connor, Term expires  
George J. White, Term expires  
Fred WKihan, Clerk.
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
William C. Van Tassell.
Appointed annually by the Mayor and  confirmed by the
Board of Aldermen.
he
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. CO.

Matthew B. Begley, Fred A. Monat
John F. Harrington, John J. Garvey
Harry W. Rogers.

Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
 Joseph D. Goddu.
Civil Service.

CITY OFFICERS  
} INSPECTOR OF MILK.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
Appointed by Board of Health.
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Lorenzo A. Williston, Chairman, Term expires May 
Gustave A. Geissler, Term expires May 
Joseph Laliberte, Term expires May 
John F. Shea, Term expires May 
Dennis F. O’Connell, Term expires May 
Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.
Members of the Roard appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Aldermen.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS. ,
James J. Dunn, Chairman, Term expires April 
Thomas Stansfield, Term expires April 
Joseph A. Paradis. Term expires April 
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen.
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.
IIon. John H. Woods, Mavor, ex-orficio.
Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-officio.
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term expires Mareh 
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term expires March 
Mrs. John J. Prew,  Termexpires March 
Elected by the Board of Aldermen,
WATER®*COMMISSIONERS.
Jesse E. Sheldon, Chairman, Term expires  
Thomas J. Carmody, Treasurer, Term expires  
Hugh MeLean, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS
WATER REGISTRAR. )

Albert E. Pickup, Oftice, Room  City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
(Civil Service. )

SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

Patrick Gear, Oftice, Commercial street
Appointed by the Board of Water Comnussioners.
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.
Thomas F. Monoghan.

Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.

(Municipal Bonds. )

Stephen A, Mahoney, Term expires  
Harry J. Bardwell, Term expires  
John J. Finn, Term expires  

Ilected by the Board of Aldermen.

BOARD OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS,
Archibald A. Brooks, Chairman, Term expires  
Mary KE. Hussey, Secretary, Term expires  
Ovila Beauchamp, Term expires  
David Brodinskyv, Term expires  
Mary C. Reardon, Term expires  
Nathan P. Avery, Term expires  
Mrs. Wilham G. Dwight, Term expires  
Wilham J. Howes, Term expires  
Dr. John W. Scolley, Term expires  

PLANNING BOARD.
Hon. John II. Woods, Mayor.
Wilham E. Bosworth, President of the Board of Aldermen.
Dr. John S. Lyon, Thomas Ic. Cavanaugh, M. D.
James If, Wakelin.

CITY OFFICERS  )
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AS CONTROLLING BODY IN
CHARGE OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
| One Year— .
Wills M. Fleming, Joseph H. Potts, M.D.
August Baush.
Two Years— ,
Frederick S. Webber, John J. O'Connor,
Edwin D. Wells.
Three Years— .
Mrs. C. A. Chase, Dennis F. Lynch,
Joseph B. Weis.
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.
SPECIAL POLICEMEN.
Allair, Napoleon, Main street.
Arent, Stanley, High street.
Avery, Frank L., Hampshire street.
Axmann, Joseph, Columbus avenue.
Baker, Michael J., Bh street.
Barnett, George, Maple street.
Bartlett, Frederick G., Cabot street.
Batchelder, George H., West street.
Bray, Thomas A., Laurel street.
Brigham, Elisha N., South street.
Berry George W., Bh street.
Benoit, Toussaint O. W., Main street.
Buchanan, John, Hampshire street.
Burke, Michael, Maple street.
Cadieux, Edward, Brown avenue.
Cavanaugh, Jeremiah J., Pine street.
Clark, John F., North East street.

  CITY OFFICERS :

Clifford, Patrick J., Center street.

Connor, Dennis, Adams street.

Corrivean, Joseph A., Center street.

Cronin, Daniel S., Samosett street.

Conway, Patrick J., Elm street.

Connors James, Sargeant street.

Connell, Joseph J., Dwight street.

Collins, Timothy D., North Bridge street.

Cote, Joseph, Park street.

Culver, Charles, West. street.

Curran, Maurice, Iligh street.

Day, David E., Cherry street.

Dugas, George H., High street.

Dempsey, Patrick J., Dwight street.

Devitt, John, South Bridge street.

Dickinson, John C., Carew street, South Hadley Falls.
Doran, John C., Walnut street.

Dobbs, Ira J., Dwight street.

Durocher, Alfred, Jr., Park street.

Kger, Paul, Northampton street.

Katon, Joseph W., Nonotuck street.

Evans, Charles R., Grover street.

Emery, Napoleon B., Rowers strect.

Ezold, Enal B., Vernon street.

Falvey, Timothy, Pine street.

Finn, Martin, North East street.

Fontaine, Hermemegilde, Sargeant street.
Fitzgerald, Martin, Lyman street.

Fitzgerald, Patrick J., Pleasant street.

Fitzgerald, Patrick, B street. .
Flahive, Thomas, Plymouth place.

Fortier, Joseph, Maple street.

Gallivan, Bartholomew, Chestnut street. 
Geran, Patrick, Walnut street.

Geissler, Carl F., Park street.

Goddu, Joseph D., Prospect street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Goodrich, Charles H., Bowers street.
Gagnon, Nelson, Ely street.
Garvey, John T., Armory street, Springfield.
Grandchamp, Charles, South Simmer street.
Gehan, Thomas J., Walnut street.
Griffin, Patrick, Elm street.
Gallagher, Thomas E., Dwight street.
Haley, Cornelius J., Easthampton road.
Haley, Michael J., Easthampton road.
Hand, Peter, Clinton avenue.
Hanley, John C., Pine street.
Hills, George F., West street.
Hurlburt, Arthur P., Park street.
Harris, Joseph, Taylor street.
Hoffmever, George, West Holyoke.
Howes, Luther F., Smiths Ferry.
Kane, Hugh, Elin street.
Kane, James J., Bond street. Kelliher, John A., Mai street.
Kelly, Thomas J., Rock Valley.
Kennedy, John J., Hampden street.
Kennedy, Samuel, rear Hampden street.
Kiely, John, Essex street.
Klopfer Frank E., Park street.
Kerin, Michael, Dwight street.
Lake, Aaron W., Smiths Ferry.
Lamb, James, Essex street.
Lamont, James, Longwood avenue.
Lafontaine, Adelard, Park street.
Lappin, Peter, North East street.
Laroche, Thomas R., Maple street.
Leblane, Joseph, Eh street.
Lempke, Ernst, Elm street.
Lempke, Henry, Rock Valley.
Lunn, Horace A., Appleton street.
Lyons, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Kennedy, Maurice, Elin street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Mann, Friedrick A., Vernon street.
Meehan, Francis J., Bowers street.

 MeDonnell, Thomas, North East street.
MeDonald, John W., North East street.
MeNaught, William, Sargeant street.
Murphy, Jeremiah, South Summer street.
Murphy, Timothy, Sargeant street.
Miller, Alexander  S., Syeamore street.
Morin, Francois, South Summer street.
Mihm, Edward, Hamilton street.
Mahoney, Daniel D., Pleasant street.
Murphy, Thomas, West street.
Manning, Patrick J., North Summer street.
Maley, Patrick J., Elm street.
Mengel, Frank O., South Summer street.
MeCarthy, Dennis L., Samosett street.
McManus, John, Pleasant street.

: Miller, George M., Jarvis avenue.
MeLaughlin, Willian J., High street.
Manning, Michael, West street.

Moriarty, Danicl, Lyman street.

O*Connor, John J., City Farm, Ingleside.

O'Keefe, David, Bowers street, B. M. passenger station.
O'Neill, John S., Sargeant street.

O'Brien, John H., East Dwight street.
Parker, Arthur B., Maple street.

Potvin, Gilbert, Sr., Maple street.

Peterson, Henry, Southampton road. .
Racklitfe. George W., Tliteheock street.

Roche, William F., Linden street.

Rainault, Homer C., Main street.

Rogers, Iarry W., Laurel street.

Rogers, William B., Newton street.
’ Robert, Elzear, Race street.

Roberts, Charles S., Sargeant street.

Redfern, Frank W., Race street.

Richardson, John F., Northampton street.

CITY OFFICERS  

Raboin, J. Hormisdas, South East street.
Sabourin, Leopold, Spring street.
Schoenfeldt, Charles L., R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
Shippee, Leon A., Mosher street.
Skilling, Thomas, Newton street.
Smith, Charles H., St. Jerome avenue.
Sullivan, John B., Elin street.
Snow, Melvin N., Nonotuck street.
Speneer, Henry B., Suffolk street.
Sullivan, Frank J., Davis street.

Soulnier, Joseph A., Chicopee street, Willimansett.
Stromfors, Axel, Brown avenue.
Slavin, Thomas J., South street.
Smith, Robert J., Clinton avenue.
Sanderson, Whipple R., Essex street.
St. Martin, Anthony, West Springfield.
Stacy, Joseph, East Dwight street.
Sittard, Charles, Vernon street.
Sullivan, Jeremiah, Maple street.
Tokarski, Felix, Union street.
Tureom, Romeo R., Maple street.
Vogel, Frank I., Main street.
Wheeler, Frederick A., Merrick avenue.
Wilhams, Henry C., Tavlor street.
Wing, John F., Southampton road.
Wallington, Mark, Pearl street.
Young, Damel W., Suffolk street.
Zemner, Hugo, R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
Vallee, Joseph, Pine street.
Lyons, Timothy J., East Dwight street.
O’Connor, Edward J., High street.
Griffin, Richard, Hampden street.
Webster, Thomas M., Commercial street.
Ryan, James C., Maple street.
Mullany, George A., Elm street.
O'Connor, Patrick T., Elm street.
Storey, James, Hampden street.
Goeldner, Ernest, James street.
Parmenter, Wallace E., Dwight street.

J  CITY OFFICERS
CONSTABLES.
Valentine J. O'Donnell, Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Myrtle avenue.
Ernest R. Laduke, Chestnut street.
Salime J. Benoit, Walnut street.
Fred Laduke, Coit street.
J. Sidney Wright, Tavlor street.
George A. Mulany, Elin street.
Thomas J. Cummins, Chestnut street.
Francis R. Cardinal, Dwight street.
WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.
William AM. Hart, Brown avenue.
Walter R. Brown, View street.
Wilham A. Kelly, Elm street. |
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK
AND STONE.
Emery A. Ellsworth, Essex street.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Timothy J. MeCarthy, Fairfield avenue. :
Wilham J. lowes, Larvard street.
Albert FL Sickman, Lincoln street. 
Patrick J. Nennedy, Jr., Maple street.
Jeremiah J. Keane, Linden street.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Howard street.
Melvin N. Snow, Nonotuck street.
Wallace KE. Sawin, Taylor street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK,
A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF MILE, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett.

CITY OFFICERS  
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM
Daniel P. Hartnett.
FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O'Connell, Hampden street.
Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut street.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Linden street.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Richard Peters, Pearl street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
John A. Davis, Cottage avenue.
WEREIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.
Patrick J. Moriarty, O'Connor avenue.
Charles R. Evans, Grover street.
Wilham  Thorpe, Lincoln street.
George  Sackett, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Mam street.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
George Hl. Lynds, Hillside avenue.
Edward G. Whiting, Oak street.
Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.
Wilham  S. Bhing, Washington avenue.
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
John H. Kenney, School street.
Patrick Murphy, Bh street.
Rvno L. Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Louis Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
Michael F. Shea, Congress avenue.
William Rrosnahan, Lyman street.

  CITY OFFICERS

George A. Lawrence, Park street.

Thomas Shea, Elm street.

Frank J. Linnehan, Dwight street.

Joseph Laframboise, Prew Co., Willimansett.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Prew Co., Willimansett.

John Kennedy, Hampden street.

Patrick J. Sullivan, Center street.

Henry J. Baker, Linden street.

Thomas Fitzgerald, Elin street.

Arthur Zaumseil, Main street.

William T. Wilson, Madison avenue.

James R. Walsh, Dwight street.

Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.

Bertha O'Keefe, Nonotuck street.
Wilfred Barsalou, Elm street.

James J. Wall, Pine street.

John Shugrue, Lyman street.

John TD. Kelly, Samosett street.

Frederick Terder, Dwight street.

Mabel O'Callaghan, Maple street.

Kdward F. MeCarthy, Faille avenue.

Dennis J. Begley, N. East street. .
William P. Keating, Charles street.

Arthur Turner, Bh street. .
Tra J. Uumes, Oak street.

Jeremiah J. Grady, Elm street.

Riehard Connor, Nonotuck street.

John Courtney, Lyman street.

Walter R. Brown, View street.

Madeline P. Dufresne, Riverdale street, Chicopee.
Joseph Harris, Taylor street.

John A. Wall, Pine street.

Killeen O'Brien, Llampshire street.

Arthur W. Little, Cook street.

Jerennah (. Dowd, Walnut street.

William F. Shea, Hampden street.

Wilham Fl. Guay, Park street.

Richard Nlopfer, Jackson street.

Harry Turner, Cohimbia street.

CITY OFFICERS Yi
WEIGHER OF COAL.
C. R. Wilhelm, Charles street.
MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main strect. .
Daniel O’Connell, Jr., Hampden street.
William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Charles B. Davis, Linden street.
Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.
Edward G. Whiting, Oak street.
Patrick J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue. .
John J. Finn, Dwight street.
Maurace T. Moriartv, South Hadley Falls.
Maurice E. Fitzgerald, South Hadley Falls.
Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.
John H. Kenney, School street.
James R. Walsh, Dwight street.
| Mary Donoghue, So. Bridge street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.
Patrick J. Kennedy, Jr., Maple street.
Seward M. Knowles, Beacon avenue.
; Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
Franklin W. Ely, Locust street.
A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Lewis Warner, Allyn street.
Patrick Walsh, Pearl street.
BURIAL AGENT.
Harry Crosby, Cabot street.

ELECTION OFFICERS
WARD ONE—PRECINCT A. |
| Warden—James Clark, East Dwight street.

Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Bresnahan, North Bridge
street.

(‘lerk—Rodolph Fourmer, Ely street.

Deputy Clerk—Rodolph Baillargeon, North East
street.

Inspectors—Louis Dragon, Lyman street; Terrence J.
O’Donnell, North Bridge street; Louis E. Emery, West
street; Winfield A. Moffat, West street.

Deputy Inspectors—Jeremiah Mannix, North Bridge
street; Michael Fitzgerald, Bowers street; Willham M.
Perry, Ely street; Arthur L. Coderre, Center street.

WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—John If. Ryan, Bowers street.

Deputy Warden—John F. Kennedy, Center street.

Clerk—Wilham Viens, Center street.

Deputy Clerk—George F. Hills, West street.

Tnspectors—Francis J. Meehan, Bowers street Dennis
M. Haggerty, North East street; TIenry Frappier,  
Dwight street: John Irvine, West street.

Deputy  Inspectors—Perle Marrs, East Dwight
street; George Chevaher, Mosher street; Martin P. Kennedy, North East street; Samuel Begart, Dwight
street.

WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Charles U. Roy, Main street.

Deputy Warden—Louis Turgeon, South Summer
street.

CITY OFFICERS  

Clerk—George A. Tetrault, Cabot street.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph Charest, South Summer
street.

Inspectors—Hilaire Jacques, Jr., South Bridge
street; Henry St. Cyr, South Bridge street; Arthur
Hamelin, South Bridge street; Adonias J. Robert,  
South Summer street.

| Deputy Inspectors—George A. Lawrenee, Park
street; Joseph A. Smith, South Bridge street; Heetor
Mousette, South Summer street; Peter L. Jarry,  
South Canal street.
WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Dennis Healey, Park street.

Deputy Warden—Jeremiah J. Hurley, South Summer street.

Clerk—Joseph B. Fountaine, South East street.

Deputy Clerk—Arthur F. Grise, Sargeant street.

Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Jr., Race street;
John E. Welch, Park street; John L. Fournier, Main
street; Max Weisbach, Park street.

Deputy Inspectors—John C. Colton, Main street;
Hubert Marcotte, Cabot street; Victor Messier,  
South Bridge street; Stanislaus Donaldson, South Bridge
street.

WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Isador W. Davis, Washington avenue.
Deputy Warden—Frederick T. Ball, Northampton

street.

Clerk—James P. Hannan, Davis street.

 Deputy Clerk—William J. Leahy, View street.

Inspectors—George Barnett, Jr., South street; Martin J. Conway, Congress avenue; Hugo Popp, Svyeamore street; Wallace M. France, South street.

Deputy Inspectors—John Reid, Jr., Carlton street;
John Thompson, Washington avenue; Gustave A. Stache,
  South street; John H. Carroll; Elm street.’

  CITY OFFICERS |
WARD THREE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Paul H. Koehler, Carlton street.
Deputy Warden—Michael J. Shea, Temple street.
Clerk—John Loweock, Myrtle avenue.
Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin, Arthur street.
Inspectors—John F. Higgins, Upper Springfield
Road; John Cronin, Main street; Frank A. Wells,  
Main street; Fred Hoffman, South street. |
Deputy Inspectors—Charles E. Gillon, Jackson street ;
Henry J. Bey, Main street William B. Clements, Avon |
place; Alfred J. Miller, High street. |
WARD TITREE—PRECINCT C.
Warden—Thomas E. Begley, Carlton street.
Deputy Warden—Cornelius F. Lucey, Sargeant
street.
Clerk—James Bower, Franklin street. .
Deputy Clerk—Howard G. Farr, Chestnut street.
Inspectors—Edwin A. Richardson, Franklin street;
Donald R. Young, Magnolia avenue; Michael J. Connors,
  Sargeant street; Edmond J. Slate, Franklin street. 
Deputy Inspectors—John Lowell, Jr., Jackson street ;
Alfred P. Beauchemin, Magnolia avenue; Leonard F. Connor, Northampton street; Theodore Smith, Sargeant street.
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.
Warden—John F. Shea, Chestnut street.
Deputy Warden—John T. Greaney, Maple street.
Clerk—Harry L. Cady, Lyman street.
Deputy Clerk—Charles F. Glidden, Lyman street.
Inspectors—George Hlamel, Elm street; Frank Lamay, Front street; Fred St. John, Hampden street;
Michael Crane, Lyman street.
Deputy  Inspeetors—Constant Wolski, Hampden
street; Leo Bergeron, High street; Michael O’Connor,  
Maple street; Wilham Kelly, Hampden street.

CITY OFFICERS  
. WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Patrick J. Mackey, Pine street.

Deputy Warden—Joseph K. Menard, High street.

Clerk—Timothy F. Lyons, Elm street.

Deputy Clerk—Frank Fleming, Chestnut street.

Inspectors—Thomas Ashe, Pine street; Edward Fitzgerald, High street; Edward Damour, Fountain street ;
Hormisdas Thomas, Front street. :

Deputy Inspectors—Michael O’Hare, Chestnut street ;
William Shea, Lyman street; Max Carlinsky, Foun' tain street; John Kaplinsky, High street. ,

WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Ira J. Humes, Oak street. ,
Deputy Warden—Frank A. Holt, Dwight street.
Clerk, Daniel F. O’Connell, Dwight street.

Deputy Clerk—William J. O’Connor, Pine street.
Inspectors—James Clifford, Suffolk street; Pierre
Smeddy, Whiting avenue; Patrick Moakler, Dwight
street; G. Herbert Foster, Maple street.
Deputy Inspectors—John J. O’Connor, Clinton ave' nue; George A. Green, Dwight street; Daniel Flynn,
  Dwight street; Michael Kerin, Bh street.

WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Charles E. Van Valkenburg, Bh street.
Deputy Warden—Patrick J. Dempsey, Dwight street.
Clerk—Frank D. O’Connor, Clinton avenue.

Deputy Clerk—Wilbur A. Robinson, Elm street.

Inspectors—Thomas Hart, Elm street; Patrick W.
Fitzgerald, School street; White P. Bidwell, High
street; William A. Allyn, Chestnut street.

Deputy Inspectors—John J. Garvey, Dwight street ;
Michael Baker, Suffolk street; Thomas V. K. Miner,  
Suffolk street; George W. Ritter, Dwight street.

  CITY OFFICERS
WARD SIX—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Fred M. Ricker, Maple street.
Deputy Warden—Leander C. Hartzell, Suffolk street.
Clerk—Lawrence F. Dowd, Sargeant street.
Deputy Clerk—James T. Cahill, High street.
Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Appleton street ;
Charles MeCauleyv, Cabot street; George A. Lee, Newton street; Joseph Morley, Sargeant street.
Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut
street; Andrew Nve, Maple street; George H. Corrigan,
  Hampshire street; Robert E. Alben, Newton street.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Edmund J. Lee, Newton street.
Deputy Warden—Thomas Skillings, Newton street.
Clerk—F rederick Shearer, Sargeant street.
Deputy Clerk—George B. Avery, High street.
Inspectors—Edward A. Driscoll, Sargeant street;
Robert D. Moore, Elm street; Alexander Pratt, High
street; John A. Vaughn, Newton street.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Cavanaugh, Franklin
street; Nicholas Cavanaugh, Commercial street; James |
Gray, Sargeant street; Edward Chambers, Elm street.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.
Warden—William  S. Thorpe, Lineoln street. .
Deputy Warden—George W. Doane, Lincoln street. |
Clerk—Eugene R. Alderman, Pearl street.
Deputy Clerk—James J. Haggerty, Waldo street :
Inspectors—Arthur R. Root, Pearl street; Raymond
W. Gero, Pleasant street; Bernard F. Bigelow, Pearl |
street; Richard Connor, Nonotuck street.
Deputy Inspectors—Rayvmond P. Allen, Howard
street; William R. Chase, Fairfield avenue; William H.
Delaney, Lynwood avenue; Charles L. Witherell, |
Waldo street.

CITY OFFICERS  
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.

Warden—John M. James, Bh street.

Deputy Warden—Charles M. Nelson, Walnut
street.

Clerk—Martin J. Leary, Waldo street.

Deputy Clerk—Thomas F. McCullough, Dwight
street. |

Inspectors—Frank  S. Rowe, Nonotuck street; Edwin B. Evans, Sargeant street; Levi E. Fay, Hampshire street; Joseph F. Griffin, Pleasant street.

Deputy Inspectors—Thomas E. Sullivan, Pleasant
street; John F. Murphy, Suffolk street; Thomas MeGuinness, Walnut street; Frederick E. Quirk, Linden street.

OFFICERS FOR  |
— |
WATER COMMISSIONERS. |
Jesse E. Sheldon, Chairman, |
Thomas J. Carmody, Viee-Chairman,
Hugh McLean, Treasurer. ,
WATER REGISTRAR. |
, Albert E. Pickup.
CLERK.
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan.
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Miss Helen A. IIanley.
SUPERINTENDENT.
Patrick Gear.
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT.
Alexander H. O’Brien.
| ENGINEER.
Patrick J. Lucey.
INSPECTORS.
James F. Cleary,
Thomas E. Sullivan Eugene F. Kane
Thomas B. Walsh Daniel F. Cray

REPORT OF
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present the following as their report for the fiscal vear ending
November :

RECEIPTS.

Balance December  ...................  |
Water rents .............    
Rent of meters  ...  ... ees  
ServlCe PIPE  ...        ees  
Interest on bank deposits ..................  
Materials and labor .............. 
Hay ....       nee eens  
Apples  ...           ees  
Serap  Fon, et@.......   eens  
Ice privilege and supervision ................  
Lease of land to Holyoke Street Railway Co.....  
Rent of Connery Farm ...............  
SuNdrieS  ... ....      eens  
Barn, White Reservoir .................----  

$ 

EXPENDITURES.

Main pipe extension and supplies ............ 
Service pipe extension and supplies ..........  
Main pipe repairs ...........-.        
Service pipe repairs ..........-...        
HydrantsS ....... cc ce   cc          

|
|
  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Reservoirs :
Ashley and Wright Ponds, Whiting Street
and High Service ...................  

Fomer oo...    eens  

White oo... cc       
Supervision and inspection ...............  
MeterS ..  ...   ce     een eens  
Barn won cc           
NS) cc  
Office oo...     seeteeteesseess |
Automobile wo...  cc     |
Engineering ........     eens  
City of Holyoke, taxes .....................  
Interest on bonds ............... -+ )

Bonds .....  ...            
Transfer to Sinking Fund ...................  
For all other purposes ............     —
$ 
Cash in Holyoke National Bank...  
Cash in City National Bank ...... |
Cash in Home National Bank ......  
Cash in Park National Bank ......  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank  
Cash on hand ..............  |
—————  |
$ 
December .

I hereby certify that have examined the books and ac- |
counts of the Water Department for the year ending Novem- |
ber found them correctly added and the vouchers
for payments properly approved.

The cash balance, has been verified.

D. W. KENNEY, City Auditor.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

The condition of the water supply for the past year has
been very satisfactory. No objectionable tastes or odors have
been observed in the water of any of the reservoirs, and the
few complaints of dirty water have been usually quickly remedied by flushing the mains through the fire hydrants or the

) blow-offs.

; The quantity of water in the local reservoirs at the present time is slightly less than it was year ago; due mainly
to the extremely low rainfall and protracted drought during
the summer. The storage in the White Reservoir is available
only to the extent of the capacity of the pipe line from the
Fomer reservoir. proposition to increase the flow through
this pipe is now being considered.

Sixty acres of pasture land on the Fomer watershed were
purchased from the heirs of Elihu Bartlett for the sui of
$ This land abutted on three sides of land already
owned by this department, and was cheaper to buy at the figure asked than to build and maintain the necessary fencing.

At joint meeting of the Board of Fire Commissioners
and Water Commissioners, both boards working in harmony
for the best interests of the city, the matter of changing the
hydrant nozzles from cluteh couplings to serew threads was
considered. It was agreed that such change ought to be
made and that the expense of so doing should be equally
borne by each department.

This work is now well under way and will be completed
early in the spring of  Additional hydrants were, at
the request of the Fire Department, installed at points selected by them, and their requests for further hydrant extension  now being considered.

At Tannery Reservoir, new building was erected on
the foundations of the one burned down some years ago.
This building removes the uncomplete appearance at this lo. eality and furnishes protection to the gate and screens for
the Homestead Avenue pipe line.

The small pond on the west side of the highway at

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Wright’s Pond is so shallow that it becomes unsightly during
low water. It is suggested that this be filled up and seeded

over, leaving an open drain from the Wright Pond to the
overtlow pipe from Tannery reservoir.

A brass tablet  was placed on the old gate house
at Wright’s Pond in honor of the members of the First Board
of Water Commissioners to whose foresight and skillful management of the Department in its earliest days the foundation of its present successful condition may be greatly attributed.

About the usual amount of reforestration was done this
year, following the usual custom. Pine seedlings were set out
on the west side of Wright’s Pond.

A new road was built from the driveway on the west
side of the Whiting Street Reservoir to the Easthampton
road. This road is about feet long with easy grades
and curves; it is built entirely on land owned by this department and furnishes most desirable short cut to the Whiting Street Reservoir from the west.

At the High Service Reservoir new road was laid out ,
on the east side, and except for the finishing touches  completed from the gate house to the Rock Valley Road.

The general appearance at the northerly end of this reservoir, next to the highway, has been greatly improved by an
iron fence along the Rock Valley Road, and the planting of
trees and shrubbery.

An entrance, at this point, to the drives around the reservoir is one of the things we have under consideration for
the coming year.

The old ‘‘Drew’’ barn owned by this department was
destroyed by fire November  It will probably be replaced :
by another to be built on the east side of Ashley Ponds large
enough to hold as much hay as required and provide storage
for such tools as may be necessary.

The case of L. M. Young vs. the City of I[olvoke has !
reached the hands of the master. All the evidence is now in
and his decision will probably soon be given.

|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

There still remains  me grading and cleaning up work

| generally to be done around the White Reservoir, which was
thought best to be left undone till after the disposition of this
case.

To strengthen the Distribution System in Ward One and
Ward Two new mains were laid according to the plans developed by previous Boards, and some of the older mains
whose capacity was outgrown have been replaced by mains
of larger size. )

New mains were also laid in the suburban sections now
being opened up for residential purposes. detailed account
of all these extensions is given in the report of the Superintendent accompanying this report to which you are respectfully referred.

The opening up of Morrill Avenue from Northampton
street to Nonotuck street in the Highland Park section, gives
this department an opportunity which has for long time

- been greatly desired. At the present time the entire Highland Park section is supplied by single line of six-inch
pipe on Pleasant street from Highland Avenue to the dingle.
This main is large enough for the present domestic consumption, but would prove too small for serious fire requiring
several streams. leak or break in the Pleasant street main
from Highland Avenue to Yale Street would leave the Highland Park district without water for either domestic purposes
or fire protection. It is therefore our intention during the
coming year, to provide this district with another main
feeder by extending the Morrill Avenue pipe to Nonotuck
street. This will practically remove all danger of the water
being shut off on account of broken mains, since it is extremely unlikely that both mains will be out of commission at
the same time; and it will also insure much larger volume
of water at steadier pressure.

We wish to make this public record of our appreciation
of the services of the late Maurice Hogan, faithful and efficient employee of this department since it was first constructed. |

|
|
|
a  REPORT OF WATER BOARD ?
The receipts from water rents were an inerease of  from those of the vear before. Receipts ,
from other sources amounted to making the total |
collections |
The expenditures were of which  .
was paid from the White Reservoir account, leaving the bal- |
ance on hand the water rents account and in
the White Reservoir account,  was trans- |
ferred from the water rents account to the Sinking Fund |
for the payment of water bonds, and serial bonds of  ,
were paid. The tax paid the city amounted to |
| over  more than was paid in  |
The bonded debt of the department is of which |
$  is in serial bonds, and the amount in the Smking
Fund leaving the net indebtedness .
CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT. |
Cost reported November  :
Increase during the vear:
Main pipe extension ........... 
Hydrants ............  |
White Reservoir ...........  
Meters...  ...      |
. ————- :
|  |
Depreciation, per cent ........ :
$ 
The cast iron mains were extended feet. For location, size and length of extensions see Table A. oe |
The length of cast iron mains is miles, and of tem- ;
porary wrought iron,  miles. For location, size and
length of mains see Tables and C. !
Fifty-one gates were set in new locations. The  total
number to date is  For location and size see Tables
D and E. Oo !
|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD ol
Four hydrants were set in new locations, and four were
replaced. The total number of public fire hydrants is  .
For location, etc., see Tables and G. Following Table is
a summary of the fire service in the various mills in the city,
which is additional to the above.
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND, NOVEMBER .
(Bonds due and  .)
Amount reported November  
Increase during the year:
Interest on loans on real estate ....  |
Interest on bonds ................  
Interest on bank deposits .........  
$ .
Transfer from water rents account  
$ 
INVESTMENT.
Loans on real estate .............. 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric
Light bonds .................  
City of Ilolyoke water loan bonds...  
City of Holvoke school loan bonds.  
City of Holyoke sewer loan bonds..  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank...  ,
Cash in Home National Bank .....  
Cash in Park National Bank ......  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank  
. Cash in City National Bank ......  
—————— 
$ 
Examined and approved,
WALTER W. EATON,
Certified Public Accountant.
January .

D  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE SEV- |
ERAL BOND ISSUES. |
Bonds due in ($ ).
Loans on real estate .............  |
City of Holvoke Gas and Electric
Light bonds ................. |
City of Holvoke water loan bonds.  
City of Holyoke school loan bonds. !
City of Holvoke sewer loan bonds...  
Cash in Holyoke National Bank.... 
Cash in Home National Bank ..... |
Cash in Park National Bank ......  Cash in Hadlev Falls National Bank  
————— 
$ 
Bonds due in ($ ).
Loans on real estate ..............  |
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric |
Light bonds .................  
City of Holyoke school loan bonds.  
Cash in City National Bank ......  
. 
All of which  respectfully submitted. :
JESSE E. SHELDON,
HUGH McLEAN,
T. J. CARMODY,
Water Commissioners. !

REPORT OF WATER BOARD 
SALARIES OF EMPLOYES OF THE DEPARTMENT.
Patrick Gear, Superintendent .................. 
Alexander H. O’Brien, Assistant Superintendent..  
Patrick J. Lucey, Engineer ....................  
Albert E. Pickup, Registrar ....................  
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan, Clerk .............  
Miss Helen A. Hanley, Assistant Clerk ..........  
James F. Cleary, Chief Inspector ...............  
Thomas EK. Sullivan, Inspector ..................  
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector ....................  
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector ....................  
Daniel F. Cray, Inspector .....................  
Daniel F. Crowley, Caretaker at White Reservoir...  
Mrs. Catherine Powers, Caretaker at Fomer Reser Fc  

Report of the Superintendent.
To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners:
| GENTLEMEN: respectfully submit to you the report of your superintendent for the year  |

Although the rainfall during the past year was much
below the normal, we were not obliged to impose any restrietions as to the use of water. At the present time we have in
storage milhon gallons, quantity sufficient to earry
us along about five months without rain.

This storage is contained mainly in the White Reservoir
and the Ashley Reservoir. The Iligh Service Reservoir and
Whiting Street Reservoir have about the usual amount of
storage for this time of year.

The utility of the White Reservoir was demonstrated during the past dry season when an amount estimated at three
hundred million gallons was taken from its storage and delivered into the Ashley and the Iligh Service Reservoirs.

Its effectiveness would be vastly inereased by extending
the Fomer pipe line up the Manhan Brook, and with the inereased head obtain greater discharge imto both these reservolrs.

The town of Southampton is contemplating just now taking about one hundred thousand gallons per day from this
pipe line which they are authorized to do by legislative enactment. This amount of water is trifling in comparison with
our present development and need not be considered except
so far as its effect in reducing the already too small discharg- ;
ing’ capacity of the Fomer Main into the Tigh Service Reservolr.

The quality of the water in the local reservoirs has been
uniformly good all during the year. The water in the White
Reservoir has continued to improve as expected. In another

REPORT OF WATER BOARD a)
year it is likely that the unpleasant tastes and odors usually
found in new reservoirs will have entirely disappeared from
this one.

About two miles of barbed wire fencing was done on our
property on the White Reservoir watershed and some more
remains to be done. The caretaker’s house at this reservoir
was painted and gasoline pump was installed to pump
water from spring about six huifdred feet east of the house.

A cement house eleven feet by thirteen feet was built to
house this pump, and as  precaution against freezing the side
walls and ceiling were lined with seven-eighth-inch matched .
boarding. This pump has given entire satisfaction so far and

is much the cheapest and best arrangement that could be had
for domestic water supply for this particular place.

The brick bulkhead at the intake pipe at the Fomer Reservoir was strengthened by building around it concrete wall |
with ‘sufficient batter to allow the ice to rise without lifting
the masonry.

At the Whiting Street Reservoir new iron pipe fence
was built from the entrance arch to the lower gate house, and
another small stretch of fencing was built on the west side
of the road on the east side of the reservoir about one thousand, five hundred feet south of the upper dam. new road called Sheldon Avenue was built from the road on the west |

) side of the pond to the Easthampton Road.

At the roadway near Rock Cut canal pine trees were set
out on both sides, from the Rock Cut gate house westerly to
the Wright Pond.

A bronze tablet which was obtained and designed by
your Board as mark of esteem to the First Board of Water
Commissioners has been placed on the Wright Gate House.

A new gate house eighteen feet square was built at Tannery Reservoir.

. At the High Service Reservoir new road was laid ont
on the east side of the reservoir, and runs closely to the water
edge from its starting voint on the Rock Valley highway to
its junction with the road at the High Service Gate Touse.
This road is nearly completed.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Some shrubbery was set out on the Rock Valley road
and new fence built along the highway at the northerly end
of the High Service Reservoir.

About the usual amount of white pine seedlings were
planted on the Ashley and Wright watersheds during the
past year.

The barn known as the Drew barn located at the foot of
the Rock Valley hill was burned on November  from some
unknown cause. This barn and its contents were insured for
a fair amount. It was useful for storing the hay cut around
the ponds, and respectfully suggest that it be rebuilt. As
there  already barn in this vicinity would suggest that
if this barn be rebuilt location on the east side of Ashley
Ponds be chosen on account of its convenience for all concerned.

The roof of the wagon shed at our Commercial street
property was repaired by putting in new beams in place of !
those which had begun to decay.

On account of the new permanent paving being put in )
on Cabot, Hampden, Dwight and Northampton streets, a
large number of services were renewed earlier than absolutely :
necessary so that this pavement would not be disturbed on |
this account within few years.

The pressure in the Highland district was satisfactory
during the year. The great loss of pressure caused by lawn
sprinkling was overcome this year by the new twelve-inch
main which was laid on Northampton street during the fall
of from Ball’s corner to Dwight street.

The work accomplished during the year can be found
on the sheets following.

Thanking you for your co-operation and unfailing courtesy of the past year, this report is respectfully submitted. ,

Respectfully yours,
PATRICK GEAR,
Superintendent.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD of
THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.

Six thousand, one hundred and sixty-seven feet of mains
were laid, and one thousand, seven hundred and nine feet
were replaced, as given below, making the total mileage of
mains about miles.

In Adams street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Bridge street to Park street. Cost .

In Center street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Canal street to Mosher street. Cost .

In Cedar Grove street feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from the  -inch main in Smiths Ferry Road westerly. Cost

$ .

In Concord avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Milton avenue westerly. Cost In Eastern Promenade feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Hillerest avenue southerly. Cost .

In Edgewood avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Shawmut avenue southerly. Cost .

In Ely street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
East street westerly. Cost .

In Greenwood avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Ridgewood avenue southerly. Cost .

In Hamilton street feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Canal street to Main street. Cost .

In Hillerest avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Martin street to Eastern Promenade. Cost |

In Morrill avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from end of pipe laid in easterly. Cost .

In Orchard street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from

| Sargeant street northerly. Cost .

In Park Slope street feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Yale street northerly. Cost .

In Ridgewood avenue feet of  -inch and feet of

*  -inch pipe were laid from end of pipe laid in westerly.
Cost .
In Springdale avenue feet of  -inch and feet of

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
 -inch pipe were laid from end of pipe laid in to Main
street. Cost .

In Yale street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Cleveland street to Park Stope street. Cost .

In Summer street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Canal street to Lyman street. Cost .

Four hydrants were set at cost of located as
follows:

( In Greenwood avenue at Ridgewood avenue, southwest. corner.

( In Maple street, west side, about feet north of
Dwight. street.

( In Morrill avenue, north side, about feet east
of Northampton street.

( In Park Slope street, west side, about feet

| north of Yale street.

In Center street from Mosher street, northerly, feet
of  -inch pipe was replaeed by &-ineh pipe.

In Hamilton street from Canal street, westerly, feet

- of  -inch pipe was replaced by &-inch pipe.

In Yale street from Cleveland street, easterly, feet
of  -inch pipe was replaeed by  -ineh pipe.

Sixty-nine new services, making total length of  
feet, were laid at cost of and old services
were replaced at cost of .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD SS]
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR  AS REGISTERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.
Consumption Daily Average
  in Gallons Per Capita
December ..............  
January .............  
February .................  
Mareh ............. 
April .....   ce   
May wo...    ee    
JUNE woe      
July woe   
— August ........        
September ............- --  
October ..............  
November ............-. ,  ,
Largest week, February to  gallons, or
  gallons per day per capita.
Smallest week, November to  gallons,
or gallons per day per capita.
Largest day, February  gallons, or gal-lons per capita.
Smallest day, November  gallons, or gallons per capita.

(NotE—The total consumption for the year as given in Commissioners’
report for that year was in error by million gallons, due to an over registration in the Whiting Street meter, which it was not practicable to correct before
the end of the year. The corrected consumption for was  gallons, daily average of gallons, and was equal to gallons per day
per consumer.)

METER WATER USED FOR DOMESTIC, PUBLIC,
COMMERCIAL AND MANUFACTURING PURPOSES DURING THE YEAR  .

Domestic ............    ees gallons
Public ............  ...      ess gallons
Commercial .................... +. -.. gallons
Manufacturing ................. ..-... gallons

Total .....  ...         gallons

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE A.
Statement of Location, Size and Length of Extensions Made
in  .
: Location. a|oe|] 
st dB oI A
ee
Adams street from Bridge street to Park
street  
an Center street from Canal to Mosher street  
Cedar Grove street from  main in
Smiths Ferry road west  
Concord avenue from Milton avenue westerly  
Edgewood avenue from Shawmut avenue
 southerly  }
Hly street from East street westerly  ;
Eastern Promenade from Hillcrest avenue |
southerly  
Greenwood avenue from Ridgewood ave- |
nue southerly  ;
Hamilton street from Canal to Main street ]
Hillcrest avenue from Martin street west- |
erly to Eastern Promenade |
Hydrants  
Morrill avenue from end of pipe laid in
  easterly 
Orchard street from Sargeant street north- |
erly  |
Park Slope street from Yale street north- |
erly  
Ridgewood avenue from end of pipe laid |
in westerly ]
Springdale avenue from end of pipe laid |
in to Main street 
Summer street from Canal street to Lyman! |
street  |
Yale street from Cleveland street to Park |
Slope street  !
Total number of feet, 
a,

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

MAIN PIPE TAKEN UP AND REPLACED BY LARGER

SIZE.
a
. oO
Location 
+

Center street from Mosher street northerly  
Hamilton street from Canal street westerly  
Yale street from Cleveland street easterly  

Total number of feet,  
MAIN PIPE DISCONTINUED FOR YEAR  .
; 
Location. A
 
Pleasant street from Fairfield avenue cout  
ee
Total number of feet,  )
TABLE C.
Summary of small pipes laid for temporary mains divided as follows:

SA-INCH  ...           cess feet
LT -imch  ...     ce         ss feet
Tyz-inch  ...    ce      s. feet
TYe-inch  ...         . feet
  -INCh  ...         ses feet

Total  ...       cence   J,  feet
  miles.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE D. |
Summary of Gates Set in  .
Location No. Size

Adams at Bridge street, feet inches

west of east line of Bridge street, |

feet inches south of north line of

Adams street (Chapman) ........... in.
Adams at Park street, feet inches south

of north line of Adams street, feet

  inches west of east line of Park street

(Chapman) .......... cc    in.
Cabot at Bridge street, feet inches east

of west line of Bridge street, feet

  inches north of south line of Cabot

street (Chapman) .............-. in.
Cabot at Summer street, feet west of west .

line of Summer street, feet inches

north of south line of Cabot street

(Chapman) .........    ees in.
Canal at Summer street, feet west of

east line of Summer street, feet  

inches south of north line of Canal

street (Chapman) ............... in.
Canal at Center street, feet inches

west of east line of Center street,  

feet inches north of south line of

Canal street (Chapman) ............ in.
Canal at Hamilton street, feet inches

north of south line of Hamilton street,

  feet inches east of west lne of

Canal street (Chapman) ............ in.
Cedar Grove street at Smiths Ferry road,

  feet west of fence on the easterly side

of Smiths Ferry road, feet north of

 -inch gate on Smiths Ferry road at

Cedar Grove street (W. W. E.)...... in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location No. Size
Center at Canal street, foot inches
south of south line of Canal street,  
feet inches west of east line of Center
street (Chapman) .............. in.
Center at Lyman street, feet inches
south of south line of Lyman street,  
feet inches east of west line of Center
street (Chapman) ................. in.
Center at Ely street, feet inches north
of north line of Ely street, feet east
of west line of Center street (Chap- |
MAN) Lo.         in.
Center at Ely street, feet inches south
of south line of Ely street, feet cast
of west line of Center street (Chapman) in.
Center at Mosher street, foot inches
south of north line of Mosher street,  
feet east of west line of Center street
(Chapman) ..........    eens in.
East at Ely street, feet north of south
line of Elv street, feet inches east
of west line of East street (Chapman) in.
East at Hamilton street, feet inches
south of north line of Hamilton street,
  feet inches west of east line of
East street (Chapman) ............. in.
East at Hamilton street, feet inches
/ north of south line of Hamilton street,
  feet inch west of east line of
East street (Chapman) ............ in.
Edgewood avenue at Shawmut avenue, )
feet west of east line of Edgewood avenue, in south line of Shawmut avenue
(Chapman) .............  cence in.
Ely at Center street, foot east of east line
of Center street, feet inches

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location No. Size
south of north line of Ely street
(Chapman) ..........     eens in.
Ely at Center street, feet east of west
line of Center street, feet south of
north line of Ely street (Chapman) in.
Greenwood at Ridgewood avenue, feet
  inches east of west line of Greenwood avenue, in south line of Ridgewood avenue (Chapman) ........... in.
Hamilton street at Summer street, feet
north of south line of Hamilton street,
in east line of Summer street (ChapMAN) .o             in.
Hamilton at Bridge street, feet inches
north of south line of Hamilton street,
in east line of Bridge street (ChapMAN) Lec   eens in.
Hamilton at East strect, feet north of
south line of Hamilton street, feet
east of east line of East street (ChapMAN) Lecce       eens in.
Hamilton at Park street, feet east of east |
line of Park street, feet inches
north of south lne of I{amilton street
(Chapman) .......         in.
Hamilton at Main street, feet inches |
east of east line of Main street, feet |
  inches north of south line of Hamil- !
ton street (Chapman) ............. in. |
Hillerest avenue at Martin street, feet
north of south line of Hiullerest ave- |
nue, feet east of west line of Martin
street (Smith) ............. in.
Lyman at Center street, feet east of 
west line of Center street, feet south
of north line of Lyman street (ChapMAD)           ees in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location No. Size
Lyman at Center street, feet west of east
line of Center street, feet south of
north line of Lyman street (ChapOrchard at Sargeant street, feet east of |
west line of Orchard street, in north
line of Sargeant street (Chapman).... in.
Park. at Hamilton street, feet inches
north of south line of Hamilton street,
  feet imches east of west line of
Park street (Chapman) ............. in.
Park at Hamilton street, feet inches 
north of south line of Hamilton street,
  feet inches east of west line of
Park street (Chapman) ............ in.
Park Slope at Yale street, feet east of
west line of Park Slope street, in north
line of Yale street (Chapman) ...... in.
Ridgewood at Greenwood avenue, feet
south of north line of Ridgewood avenue, in east line of Greenwood avenue
(Chapman) .........     ees in.
Ridgewood at Milton avenue, feet west
of west line of Milton avenue, feet
  inches south of north line of Ridgewood avenue (Chapman) ........... in.
Shawmut avenue at St. Jerome avenue,  
feet south of north line of Shawmut
avenue, in west line of St. Jerome avenue (Chapman) .............-... in.
Summer at Canal street, feet inches
east of west line of Summer street, in
south line of Canal street (Chapman) in.
Summer at Lyman street, feet inches
east of west line of Summer street, in
north line of Lyman street (Chapman) in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location No. Size
Yale at Cleveland street, feet north of
south line of Yale street, feet inches
east of west line of Cleveland street
(Chapman) ........ ce ee   in.
GATES FOR HYDRANTS.
Canal at Mosher street, feet inches east
of hydrant (Chapman) ............. in.
Carlton street, west of Russell Terrace,  
feet inches east of hydrant, foot
. inches north of hydrant (Pratt &
Cady) co.cc      ene ees in.
Center at Canal street, foot inches north
 of hydrant (Chapman). Tapped on
Canal street ......  ...    in.
Chapin at South street, northwest corner,
  feet east of hydrant (Pratt Cadv) in.
Greenwood at Ridgewood avenue, feet  
inches east of hydrant (Chapman)... in.
Hamilton at Bridge street, feet inehes
north of hydrant (Chapman) ........ in.
James at Temple street, feet south of hydrant (Chapman) ................. in.
Maple at Hampden street, southeast corner,
  feet inches west of east line of
Maple street, feet north of south line
of Hampden street (Pratt Cady)... in.
Maple street, feet north of Dwight street,
  feet inches east of hydrant (ChapMAN) Lo.       ee   eens in.
Morrill avenue, feet east of Northampton street, feet inches south of hydrant (Chapman) ................- in.
Park Slope street, feet north of Yale
street, feet east of hydrant (ChapMAN) voce     nees in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  /
| Location No. Size
Pleasant street at Highland avenue, feet

south of north line of Highland avenue, feet inches east of west line
of Pleasant street (Pratt Cady).... in.
Suffolk street, between High and Railroad
streets, feet inches west of hydrant
(Chapman) ............    in.
 Total, -in.;  -in.;  -in.;  -in. Total,  .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE F.
Summary of IIvdrants Set in  .
o/  |
aE
Location (Corner or Side) and Make BIDS :
zle|s
|. ). 
H tH  
es ee
Greenwood avenue at Ridgewood avenue, southwest
corner (Ilolyoke)  
Maple street, west side about feet north from
Dwight street (Holyoke)  
Morrill avenue, north side, about feet east from
Northampton street (Holyoke)  
Park Slope street, west side, feet north from Yale |
street (Holyoke)  
Total  
TABLE F.
Hydrants Replaced.
Ely street at Center street, northeast corner (Holyoke)  
(Replaces  -in. single Mathews)
Maple and Hampden streets at southeast corner (Holyoke). (Replaces  n. single Holyoke)  
Pleasant and Stanford streets at southwest corner (Holyoke. (Replaces  -in. double Holyoke)  
Summer and Hamilton streets at northwest corner Holyoke). (Replaces  -in. single Holyoke)  
Total,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
 -inch, one out...  ...        ae ,
 -inch, two outs  ...       ete  . -inech, two outs ........  ee    neces  -inch, two outs ...........           BDI
 -inch, three outs ...  ... ce   eens  -inch, one Out ... ce       OF
S-inch, three outs .....    een ]
CisternsS  ... ec         
Total ..  ...              
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CITY
OUTSIDE CITY HYDRANTS TO DATE.
 stand pipe outs.
a  single hydrants.
  double hydrants.
  triple hydrants.
  four-arm hydrants.
  eellar hydrant.
  mills using perforated pipe sprinklers.
  mills using automatie sprinklers.
o  fire pumps at mills.
  tank containing gallons.
  tank containing gallons.
  tank containing gallons.
  tanks containing gallons each.
  tanks containing gallons.

|
|
- FO REPORT OF WATER BOARD
|
|
METERS IN USE.

  
Make ELE .E EE B/E ,.  

FEB allele
ee AC  

|| |
Crest 
Crown   
Empire   
Empire Compound  
Gem 
Hersey   
Keystone  
King 
Lambert 
Nilo 
Thomson )
Trident  
Trident Compound Ud
Union  
Worthington |  
| hot yt

“akan Calle ol
Total,   
ee enna nen es ed

, REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
METERS ON HAND,  .

CROWN METERS.
  X
Ba MCh...  tee     eny  
BS MCH.    ce   cette ec   eeaes  
By INCH...teeeens  
TR DX  
B  INCH...   ce        
Linch...  te   tee tees  
Lo oimeh.. ec cc   teen    
Linch...   e ce te ete    
Dn  c)  
Linch... ec cc eet   eet tees  
L inch...   tee tee tee tenes  
TY iNCh.. ee   eens  
TY inch...    ete ttenes INCH... e   ete   eens  
A OC  
B neh... ... etee tee tee tens  

EMPIRE METERS.
  
BQ INCH...      t nee  
TM  
BA MCN... ce   eet teen tee    
a  
Sn DC cc  
TY inmeh?  ...  nes  

  ineh.. ce   ences —

HERSEY METERS.
BA NCH. ce          
BA INCH.  ete tent enes  
BA MCh.    ete nee  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
| BA NCH...     teens  
B  MCh...     cent aes  
BA-IMCH. ce   eens  
DR CC)  
TW, inch...   eens MCh...       MCh...  teen    
QZ INCh.. ce te   eens inch... ce  ees  
KING METERS.
Ve MCN...      eens  
YQ UNC... ecene   eens  
Ke MCN.         
SCS BOX  
CS 
LAMBERT METERS.
Ve INCH. oe    ena  
CD  K)  
Lo oaimeh... ce ce  enna  
Looinh.. cc   ees Inchon...teen ees Inch...    eens  
THOMSON METERS. ,
SE OIMCH. Lee ete     ne ees  
Ws Inch...        
TU, inh...            
WS inch...        
I  
TRIDENT METERS,
Se  
SA INCH... ce     centeas  

. REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
bn  neh... ce ec   cette    
SB MCh...  ee       c  

WORTHINGTON METERS.
Se INCH...ce  tweet   etnies  
Se INCH...      ete      
By INCH... tenes  
BA INCH. ec  teen   nae INCH...ee        
BA INCH.     
SO  
A  
Ba MCh...   teenies  
Ss 
B  INCH...       nes  
By INCH. Lec   teen eens  
OC  
BA MCH. oi.       ete nes  
BA NCH...   ees  
B  INCH.ee    teens  
Lo oinch... ce           
Lo oinch..... ce cc      inch...  ...  ce ence ne nees  
Lo oinch....       
Loimeh.. .. ec        
Linch...         
Lo oinch.. oc ec ce   eens  
: Linch... ce ce    ees  
Lo oinch...     eens  
Lo ineh. cic  ec        
Ll inch...        nena  
pn 
Lo oinch.. ie cc  ce   eens  
be 

it REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Lo oineh.. cc. cns  
Lo oinch.. i...    eens  
DC 
LL oimehe ce ec     eens  
Lo meh...    ees  
pn 
Ll OU imeh.. ec    ees  
Uy inch... ce en    
TWA inch... ce      
TWA Meh. ce   ec   tee   nes Inch...        
DU   €
 
A DX  X.  
A DCC)  
I XC) DCC) cr  
A  cr  
APPRAISAL OF STOCK. |
Stock, tools, supplies, fixtures, ete., of the Superintendent.’s division, on hand November amounting to
$ .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD iB)
TABLE J.
Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.

Rated

Art Studio  ...      eens  
Automobiles  ...      cc  ees  
Automobile stations .........  ...    
Automatic dampers ........  ...    eens  
Awning manufacturers ...........       
Bakeries  ...  ...           ens  
Barber shops ............      ene neces  
Band room .........  ...    ce     
Banks  ... ..      een   enees  
Baths  ...         cere  ec  
Baths, extra  ...     ce eet      
Beer bottlers ......  ...         een  
Blacksmith and carriage shops ................  
Boarding houses .........         
Boiler shop ......  ...      eens  
Boilers  ...    eae     
Bonded warehouse ...........     ees  
“Box. Shop .......      nent  nee  
Bowling allevs ......  ...  ... cc          D
Brass foundry .........   t 
Broom manufactories ..............        
Brick vard  ...   tee ce  nnes  
Business college ..........           
Carbonators  ...    cc ce ee     
Cattle ...            
Cement block works ........  ...      eens  
Cement pipe works ...........  ec      
CemeterieS  ...   ees  
Chamber of commerce.............    cease  
Churches .....  ...      ce     eae   
Church organS .......  ...    ete tenes  
Cigar manufactories .........     

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Club houses  ...  cc  eens  
Club rooms ..  ...    tee      
Cold storage plants ..........      
Coal and wood yards  ...  ...        
Compressed alr PUMPS .....  ... cc            
- ConventS co...  eeee     tee    
CreameLrleS  ...    tenet      
Dentists ... cc.ee    ees  
Dressmakers .......          D
Drue@ stores  ...ee   nas  
Dve works  ...  ...       ence  
Electric ear sprinkler ........  ec    
Electric car hydrants .........  ... ees  
Elevators, piston .....  ...         
Engines  ...     cette   eens  
Express GOMpaNy  ...     
Families ...         t     
Fountain and rotary sprinklers ...............  
Furniture ware roOMs ..........  ...    ete  
Gas holder ....        te tenets  
Gatehouse, IT. W. P. Co...ee  )
Glazed paper works  ...         
Greenhouses vo...        nes &
Grist mils  ...    tee tees  
CIVIINASIUMIS ee te     
TlairdresserS oo...ete tees a
Harness works  ...      
TTorses co  tee tet eetene  
Hse woe cc cc ce    tees ec   
Tlotels  ...   ete et tae tae  
TIwdrauhe presS  ...    
Tee dealers      ten tees  
Tron works co...   ce tee ne   eens  
Laundries co...       naes  
Lithographers  ...  ... cc   ence eens  
Thivery stables  ...  ete etn  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD 

Locomotives ..  ...         tees  
Lodging rooms .......  ...    tee ees  
Log cabin ..  ...  ce eet tee tee  
Lumber yards ..........  ...     eens  
Machine shops ..........              
Meat markets ........  ...       teetee tes  
Millinery parlors ........  ...  ee ences  
Motors ....  ...            ees  
Mold coolers ........  ...   ee eens  
Municipal milk station ........... cc     
Offices  ...         ee    
a 
Passenger and freight depots .................  
Photo studios ......  ...   ce  eens  
Planing mills .........  ...     ees  
Playgrounds ..........    ce       
Plumbers .......  ...       tees     
Pool rooms .........         eens  
) Pressure PUMPS .......     teen eens  
Printing offices  ...       ees  
Pubhe bath rooms .........       
Public drinking fountains .................... ..  
Public sanitaries .........  ...        
Rag shopS ..........      ee  
Restaurants .......  ...           
Road rollers ......  ...            
Round houses ..........            nee  
Sausage manufactories ............      
Schoolhouses ........          ees  
C 
Slaughter house ............           
Soda bottlers  ...         
Soda fountaiis .......  ...       eens  
Standpipes .......   ceteen teas Aye)
Steam and gasfitters ...... ...      
Steam stone polishing ...........       
Stone crusher .......  ... cc cc  tee   eens  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Stome vards  ...      t   tees  
STOPES coec tee tenet en tes  d
Storehouses  ...  ...   tee    
Street sprinkling carts ......  ... ee eens  
Tailor shopS  ...      eet   tees  
Tanks for glasses ...  ...  ee      
Telephone exchange .........  ...   ete   cence    
Theaters ..  ... cc    eet tee tees  
Tin Shops  ...  cc    ete tee tne eens  
Tumbler washers ........  ...  ...      eens  
Undertakers  ...  ...  tee tees  
Urinals wo... cc cc     recenttees  
Vacuum water cleaners  ...        
Vevetable sprinklers ....... ... cc          
Veterimary hospitals  ...       
Wading pools .........      eens  
Water closets ....  ...           
Water closets extra co...         
Water Power Co... wee  ]
Watering troughs  ...    eens  
Wash motors .... .-.  ... eteett     tees  
Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Metered
Almshouse ....  ...       eens  
Alpaca mills  ...  ce   ete eae  
Auger Bit works ...... ..          
Automatic dampers .....  ... eaten )
Automobiles ... cc    ees  
Automobile stations ..........  e  +
Bakeries oo... ee     eens  
Barber shops  ... ce teens  
Bar works ..  ...    nes  
Baths ...  ... ec ce ete  eet    
Beer bottling  ...ee  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Beer pumps .......  ...      teen    
| Belt shops ........  ...        eens  
Blackship shop ...........     ec s  
Blanket mill ..........   ce  nee  
Bleach and dye tanks..........  ...     
Book binding ..........  ...          
Boilers .....  ...             
Boiler shop ...........          ene   
Brass foundry ........      eens  
Brass window furnishings ................. .. ]
Cattle  . ce   ce    
Chemical laboratories ..........  ... cc       
Churches ....... cc ee        )
Chureh organs  ...  ...     cnet eetees  
City hall  ...      eens  
Club rooms ............         neces  
Cold storage plants ........  ...        
Colored cotton  ...  ce     eens  
Compressed air pumps ............        
Condensers ........        ees   
ConventS .......       see seco  
Cotton mills ......... e        D
Cotton thread and twine manufacturers ............  
Crabbing machines ...........     enee  
Crimping machines .............      
Dandy roll manufactorv ............   
Dentists  ...     nen   tenes  
Domestic science .....  ... cc    teeetnies  
Drug stores  ...   ce      
Drying kilns ..........  ...     ene   .
Dve Works  ...  ...    ete ete   
| Electric car station  ... ..  ...  ce   eens  
Blectric light station ........  ...      
Electric power station ..........  ...       
EBlectrotyping .........      cette eens  
Elevators by piston .........  ...    ce   teens  
Elevators bv motor ..........     ees  

|
&  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
EngineS  ... ... cc          
Envelope manufactory .............       ]
Express company .........      es  
Families  ...    cc     ete    
PilterS  ...     tee    nees  
Fire engine houses ........   ce   teens  
Fountains  ...  ... ee  eens  
Gas WorkS  ... cc  teen cette eens  
Gas holders  ...  ...      nee  
Glazed paper works  ...     
Greenhouses .....           ees  
Grindstones  ...           ees  
GVMNASIUMS Lo... ee          
Horses wo...ee       eens  
Hose  ...   teen cence   eens  
Hospitals  ...   tee een enes  
Hotels ... cc ce     nee ees :
Home for aged people ..........  ...     
Hot water boilers ....... ..  ...          
Hydraulic press .....      
Hygienic drinking fountains .................  
Tron foundries ........  ...           
Job printing  ...  ...     !  
Laundries ...  ...         
Livery stables oo...  ...ee    
Lodging roOmS .......  ...        ences  
Liunber yards ......  ...     eens  
Machine shops .........    een    
Mattress works ........         ees  
Meat markets  ...       ees  
Motors wo...     ua  
NUPSCIV oe          eens   
Opera houses ......  ...       tenes  
Paper machine ........  ...      eens 
Paper mills ...  ...        cence ees  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Paper pad manufactories ...........    
Passenger depot ........  ...   een ne   
Planing mills .......... ...      ees  
Piumbers ........... cc       
Plush manufactory .........     
Police court  ...  ...ee teen    
Post office  ... ce          
| Pork packing houses ............  ...      
Pool room  ...      tent   
Print machineS ...........  ...  ec    eens Tt
Primers for pumps .........        
Publie bath houses .......  ...  ees  
Public bath rooms ..........  ...     
Public library  ...eens  
Public sanitary  ... ce  teens  
Reading rooms .........     ete      
Restaurants ...  ...    cent   eens  
Rotary washers ...... ..  ... tect enna  
Saloons  ...        aes  
Schoolhouses ........      ees  
Sereen plate works .........  ...      tees  
Sealing wax manufactory ........   ees  
NS)  
Silk mills co.     eens  
Singeing machines ......... ee   
Size tubs ...  cence    
‘Soap tanks .......  ...    eens  
Soda bottling .........  ...         ees  
Soda fountains .........  ...         
Spraving machineS ...........  ...    eens  
Spring bed manufactory ...............     
Steam and gas fi erS ..........  ...      
Steaming machineS ..........  ...   eens  
Steam pump manufactory ..............       
Steam stone cutting .........  ...         
Stome yard  ...     teenies  
Stores  .  nee ence eens  

é

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Tanks for glasses ........  ...     eens  
Tailor ShopS ......... cc   cence      
Testing flume .....  ...   ec   ce        
Telegraph offices ......  ...        
Tissue paper manufactory .............      
Tumbler washerS ...........     ewes  
Urinals  ...  ...      ence   teens  
Water closets  ... cc       eens  
Water wheel governors ..............   OO
Water rolls for wire ......  ...        
Wash motors  ...  ...     tenes  
Wire mills  ...   cette  
Wire weaving .......  ...           
Woolen mills ...  ...    ce      

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE K.
Summary of Stand Pipes.
Appleton street, near Deane Steam Pump Co........  
Appleton street, near Main ...............    
Ball’s corner, near Bh ............... ce eens  
Brown avenue, near South ................      
Brown avenue, near View ............ ce  eens  
Bh street, near Appleton ................    
Bh street, near Hampden ..................  
Bowers street, corner Samosett ..............  .
Bridge street, corner Canal (Ward  .............  
Bridge street, corner Canal (South Holvoke) .......  
Bridge street, south of Sargeant (South Holvoke)...  
Bridge street, near No.  ...  ...     
Canal street, near Lyman ............  ...  
Center street, corner East Dwight street ............  
Center street, near Lyman ................ 
Chestnut street, corner Sargeant ............... 
Chestnut street, corner Cabot ..................  
- Chestnut street, corner Prospect ............. 
Cabot street, near Race .......... 
City yard, Commercial ..............        
Cabot street, near Cabot street mill ................  
Dwight street, near Nonotuck ....................  
East street, corner Hamilton ...................  
Elm street, near Suffolk .........  ...     ees  
Essex street, near Maple ...........  ...  eens  
Front street, corner Fountain .................  
Hampden street, corner Nonotuck .................  
Hamilton street, corner Canal ....................  
High street, at City Hall ...................... ..  
Jackson street, near Holyoke Paper Co.'s mill.......  
Linden street, corner Bh ..............    ]
Locust street, near Cabot ..........  ... ce   ees  
Main strect, near South .............    

St REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Maple street, near Hampden .................. 
Maple street, near South .........  ...     
Meadow street, near Main (Springdale) ............  
Northampton street, near No. ................  
Northampton street, near Heywood’s ..............  
Northampton street, near Cooley’s ................  
Northampton street, near Gilman ..............  
Nonotuck street, near Fairfield avenue ............  
Park street, corner Boiler works ..................  
Pine street, corner Dwight .........   ees  
Pine street, corner Hampshire ................ 
Quiney street, at Northampton ..............  
Race street, at Armour’s ..........     
Railroad street, corner Appleton ..................  
School street, near Dwight ............    
Sargeant street, near Maple .............   
Sargeant strect, near Park ..................  
South street, near Northampton ............... 
St. Jerome avenue, near Sargeant ............... 
Tavlor street, near Hampden ..................  
Washington avenue, corner South ............. 
Willow street, mear Laurel ..................  
Total ..              eenes DD

REPURT OF WATER BOARD raid)
TABLE OF RAINFALL IN INCHES AT THE SEVERAL
RESERVOIRS FOR  .

High Whiting

Ashley Fomer Service Street
Ponds Reservair Resery oir Reservoir
January,  
February,  
March,   
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  J. 
September,  
October,  
November, $. 
December,  
Total,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HEIGHT OF WATER AT WHITING STREET RESERVOIR,  .

December  th, feet inehes;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

January  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet  
inches.

February  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 st, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

March  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  lst,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

April  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, |
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

May  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

June  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet mehes.

: July  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inehes;  th, feet inches.

August Ist, feet inches; &th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet  

| inches.

September  th, feet inches;  th, feet inch;  th:
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

October  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,

  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet  
inches.

November  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  st,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

Average height for year, feet inches.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASHLEY PONDS,  .

December  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

January  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st feet inches.

February  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

March  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 st, feet inches;  th, feet inch.

April  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

May  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inch;  th,  
feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

June  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

July  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

August Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inch;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inehes.

September  th, feet  inch;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inch;  th, feet inches.

October  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet inches.

November  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 st, feet inches;  eth, feet inches.

Average height for vear, feet inches.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HEIGHT OF WATER AT HIGIL SERVICE RESER.VOIR,  .

December  th, feet inehes;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

January  rd, feet inches;  th, feet ineh;
 th, feet mehes;  th, feet inches;  st, feet  
inches.

February  th, feet;  th, feet inches;  st,  
feet inches;  sth, feet inches. |

March  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 st, feet inches;  th, feet mehes. |

April  th, feet mehes;  th, feet inches;  th, :
 feet mehes;  th, feet inches.

May  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th, |
  feet mehes;  rd, feet inch;  th, feet inches.

June  th, feet;  th, feet inehes;  th, feet
S inches;  th, feet inches.

July  th, feet inches;  th; feet inches;  dth,

  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

August Ist, feet inches;  th, feet ineh;  th, |
  feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet  
inches. |

September oth, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

October  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;

Tith, feet;  th, feet inches;  st, feet inches.

November  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 st, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

Average height for year, feet inches.

| REPORT OF WATER BO.A\RD  
TABLE SHOWING RAINFALL AND OVERFLOW AT
ASHLEY PONDS, HIGH SERVICE AND WHITING STREET RESERVOIRS DURING
THE YEAR  .

ASHLEY HIGH WHITING
PONDS SERVICE STREET
a ole olka le el) OB
| get Sed [Sek Ses Eee| tas
| --|e &\  |§ |e  &

January, 
February,  

March,  

April,  

May,  
June, 
July,  
August,  
September, )
October,  ]. 
November,  
December, 

. !

pos 

| |

|
.
|
  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE
WATER WORKS, NOVEMBER .
Population, Water Department census of .
Date of construction,  .
Works owned by the city.
Souree of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage
reservoirs, three and one-half miles from the eity, two
mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the southwest branch of the Manhan river—intake and storage
reservoirs at Southampton and Westhampton.
Mode of supply—gravity.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD .
FINANCIAL.
Receipts.
A. Water rates, fixed .................... 
. B. Water rates, metered .................  
C. Total receipts for water .............. 
D. Service pipe ..........   ees  
BE. All other sources ...............  
F. Gross receiptS ...........   
G. Cash balance, December  ........  
$ 
Expenditures.
AA. Management and repairs ............. 
BB. Services and repairs .................  
CC. Running expenses for ............ 
DD. Interest on bonds ...................  
EE. Total maintenance .................... 
FF. Taxes, City of Holyoke ..............  
GG. Bonds, White Reservoir ..............  
HH. Transfer to sinking fund ............  
II. Materials, labor, ete...................  
JJ. Cash on hand and in banks ...........  
KK. Balance to construction ...............  
$ 
Construction.
Balance ............... 
LL. Extension main pipe ......  
MM. Hydrant ..................  
NN. White Reservoir ..........  
OO. Meters ...............  
—————— 

" REPORT OF WATER BOARD
PP. Depreciation, per cent.....  
QQ. Net cost of works to date..  
RR. Bonded debt .............  
W. Value of sinking fund, November  .........  
X. Net debt .............  
CONSUMPTION.
  Population,  Water Dept. census...  Population on line of pipe, Water Dept.
CENSUS  ... et      Population supphed, Water Dept. census  Total gallons consumed for vear........ 
Do. Passed through meters and B........ Average daily consumption, gallons.....  Gallons per day to each inhabitant......  Gallons per day to each consumer )...  Gallons per day to service tap ..........  DISTRIBUTION,
 Kind of pipe used—wrought and east iron
and lead lined.
 From inch to inches.
 Extended, feet large.
 Discontinued ......  ...   es feet
 Discontinued, temporary mains less than
F-Inch Loc ce     feet
 Mains,  -inch and upward ............. miles
 Temporary mains, less than inches....  miles
 Total length of distribution ........... miles
 Number of leaks in city,  in Fomer line
NONE Lovee        eens  Cost of repairs per mile ............... Hydrants added ............ Uvdrants now in use, pubhe and  
private hydrants (see Table G). .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  Hvdrants frozen .................  
.  Hydrants repaired ..................  Hydrants replaced .................-.  Stop gates added ....................  Stop gates now in use (see foot Table E)  Stop gates less than  -inch ............  Number of blow-off gates ..............  Range of pressure on main at office, per }
day and night, to pounds.
Main street, per day and night, to
  pounds.
 Stand pipes in use ................... |
 Gates repaired .......  ...     Gates replaced .......  ...      )
 Gates taken out .......... ...... none
SERVICE.
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, cast iron
lead lined, tin lined and galvanized.
 From to  -inch size of service.
 Leaks  ...  ... cc ees  Cleaned and repaired .................  Frozen services thawed out ............  Replaced services ............     
Sl. Extended ........  ...     feet
 Discontinued ..........       Total now in use (estimated) ........... feet
 Services added .........  ...   Number now in use...............  Average length of service.............. feet
( All sizes, Average cost of service in  ..... to in.
. Inclusive, Meters added ...................  Meters discontinued ..................  Meters repaired ..................  Meters now in use....................  

|
|
|
|
  REPORT OF WATER BOARD !
 Indicators on elevators and organs...... ;
 Service boxes repaired................ :
 Water shut off ................... |
 Water turned on .......... eae  Leaks—faucets,  water closets, Leaks repaired—fauts,  water closets,  ...    Walves sealed in mills.......... .......  Seals broken in mills..................  
|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO
NOVEMBER .
WATER COMMISSIONERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WORK ELECTED
BY THE TOWN OF HOLYOKE.

William B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
March term expired February .

John Delaney, elected March term expired February .

John E. Chase, elected March term expired
 .

Dennis Higgins, elected March term expired
February .

Joel Russell, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .

J. P. Buckland, Clerk of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .

L. P. Bosworth, successor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February .

C. W. Ranlet, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.

ENGINEERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION UF
Work. |

Messrs. Shedd and Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting
engineers.

BK. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.

Davis Ellsworth, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis May,
 

Moses Stevens, pipe inspector.

WatTEeR COMMISSIONERS ELECTED BY THE CiTY COUNCIL.

J. P. Buckland, elected February term expired
February .

Dennis Higgins, elected February term expired
January .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

James G. Snuth, elected February deceased July
  .

J. A. Sullivan, elected February term expired
January .

James F, Allyn, elected February term expired
January .

C. H. Heywood, elected July term expired January .

Timothy Merrick, elected January term expired January .

Maurice Lynch, eleeted January term expired
January .

James E. Delaney, elected January resignation
accepted January .

Moses Newton, elected January &,  term expired
January |

James J. Curran, elected January resignation
accepted February .

Martin P. Conway, elected January term expired January ,

Charles D. Colson, elected January term expired
February .

John J. Sullivan, elected January term expired
February d.

Thomas F. Greaney, elected January term expired February .

Joseph A. Skimner, elected January term expired February .

Maurice Lynch, elected January deceased January .

Arthur M. French, elected February term ex- |
pired February |

‘Hugh MeLean, elected January term expired
February .

Michael J. Dovle, elected January term expired :
February .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD 

Thomas J. Carmody, elected January .

Jesse EB. Sheldon, elected January .

Thomas J. Lynch, eleeted January term expired
February .

Hugh Mclean, elected January .

OFFICERS OF THE HOLYOKE WATER Works.

Moses Stevens, Superintendent, appointed February  ,.
 term expired April resigned.

Daniel Heywood, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October suc ded by KE. AM. Bolton.

EK. M. Bolton, Registrar, appointed October ;
term expired June resigned.

E. P. Clark, Registrar, appointed July resigned
January .

J. C. Sullivan, Registrar, appointed January .
resigned January .

A. E. Pickup, Registrar, appointed February .

John D. Hardy, Superintendent, appointed May ;
term expired April .

John J. Kirkpatrick, Superimtendent, appointed May  ,
 resigned April .

Patrick Gear, Superintendent, appointed May .

E. M. Bolton, Inspector, appointed July service
terminated March .

James F. Cleary, Inspector, appointed March .

Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector, appointed March .

Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, appointed October .

Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector, appointed October .

Daniel F. Cray, Inspector, appointed October .

—

OF THE ,

To the Mayor, the Aldermen and the Citizens of Holyoke:

At meeting of the School Board held on January  .
 this complete report was presented.

At meeting held on February it was accepted
and ordered printed. It is divided into eight parts, as
follows:

PART I. Organization of School Board, district committees,

standing committees; time of meetings, various office
hours and school calendars.

PART II. Report of Committee on Annual Report from School
Board to City Government.

PART III. Report of Superintendent of Schools to School Board.

PART IV. Statistical Report of the Superintendent covering matters of attendance, accounts, distribution of pupils,
finance, etc.

PART V. Report of Attendance Officers.

PART VI. Organization and roster of the school system on January giving salaries paid, grades taught and
various attendance figures.

PART VII. List of books adopted for use in day schools and in
evening schools.

PART VIII. Graduating classes of  .

IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM OF HOLYOKE
THERE ARE KINDERGARTENS, SPECIAL CLASSES,
ELEMENTARY GRADES, HIGH SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL SCHOOL AND EVENING SCHOOLS. BOYS
AND GIRLS FROM FOUR OR FIVE YEARS OF AGE
TO ABOUT EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE FORM ALMOST THE ENTIRE POPULATION OF THESE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM.

THE BUSINESS OF THE SCHOOLS IS TO EDUCATE THESE BOYS AND GIRLS WITH PARTICULAR
CONSIDERATION FOR EACH BOY AND EACH GIRL.
THE DUTY OF THE SCHOOLS IS TO DRAW OUT AND
SYSTEMATICALLY DEVELOP THEIR NATURAL POWERS, AND, BY INSTRUCTION, TRAINING AND DIS, CIPLINE, TO RENDER THEM ABLE AND DISPOSED
TO BECOME EFFICIENT MEMBERS OF SOCIETY
AND CITIZENS OF CHARACTER AND INTELLIGENCE.

THE READER MAY ASK WHAT IS DONE HERE;
BY WHOM, HOW AND WHEN IT IS DONE; HOW
MUCH IT COSTS; WHETHER IT IS DONE WITH
ECONOMY, EFFICIENCY, AND SUCCESS. THE ANSWERS ARE IN THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THIS
REPORT.

The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for the
year was as follows:
, (DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS.
At Larre OcEPH B, WEIS.
Ward  —JOHN F. KENNEDY.
Ward  —WILFRED G. DEROIN.
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH.
Ward  —MAURICE G. DONAHUE.
Ward  —JOHN J. O;CONNOR.
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH. oy
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for the
year is as follows:
Term Expires
(DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS. January,  
At Large .OSEPH B. WEIS. January,  
Ward  —JOHN F. KENNEDY, January,  
Ward  —DR. WILFRED G. DEROIN, January,  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH, January,  
Ward  +—PATRICK SHEA, January,  
Ward  —JOHN J. O’CONNOR, January,  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH, January,  
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS, January,  
HON. JOHN H. WOODS, Mayor.
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chairman. |
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
The District Committees for are as follows:
HIGH SCHOOL: ,
MESSRS. O’CONNOR, BAUSH, WELLS.
FIRST DISTRICT: .
MESSRS. SHEA, O’CONNOR, POTTS.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
SECOND DISTRICT:
MESSRS. LYNCH, BAUSH, DEROIN.
» THIRD DISTRICT:
MESSRS. KENNEDY, WELLS, WEIS. |
The Standing Committees for are as follows: |
RULES, TEXT BOOKS AND COURSES OF STUDY: |
MESSRS. KENNEDY, BAUSH, O’CONNOR. |
SALARIES AND FINANCE: |
MESSRS. WELLS, WEIS, SHEA. !
PRINTING AND SUPPLIES:
MESSRS. BAUSH, O'CONNOR, LYNCH.
SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS:
MESSRS. WEIS, LYNCH, POTTS.
EVENING SCHOOLS AND ATTENDANCE:
MESSRS. WELLS, KENNEDY, DEROIN. ,
BUILDINGS, JANITORS AND SOCIAL CENTERS:
MESSRS. O’CONNOR, SHEA, POTTS. ,
The organization of the Board of Trustees for Vocational
Education for is as follows:
Term Expires
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Brown Avenue, January,  
, WILLS M. FLEMING, Maple, January,  
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chestnut, January,  
FREDERICK S. WEBBER, Sycamore, January,  
JOHN J. O'CONNOR, Clinton Avenue, January,  
EDWIN D. WELLS, Nonotuck, January,  
MRS. CHARLES A. CHASE, Pearl, January,  
JOSEPH B. WEIS, Cleveland, January,  
DENNIS F. LYNCH, Chestnut, January,  
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary.
The sub-committees of this Board for are as follows:
RULES, SALARIES AND FINANCE: |
MESSRS. WEBBER, LYNCH, WEIS. ,
SUPPLIES:
MESSRS. POTTS, O'CONNOR, BAUSH.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TEACHERS. COURSES OF STUDY AND TEXT BOOKS:
MESSRS. WELLS, FLEMING, MRS. CHASE.
The Advisory Committees to the Board are as follows:
METAL TRADES:
. WILLIS D. BALLARD, Pearl.
FREDERICK W. KOEGEL, Brown Avenue.
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB, Fairfield Avenue.
BUILDING TRADES:
JOSEPH F. RANGER, Nonotuck.
ISRAEL DUCHARME, Papineau.
WILLIAM B. O'NEILL, Congress Avenue.
PRINTING:
MICHAEL J. DOYLE, Elm.
ANDREW J. HUNTER, School.
JOSEPH LUSSIER, Nonotuck.
PAPER-MAKING:
SIDNEY E. WHITING, Oak.
HENRY P. CARRUTH, North Pleasant.
DAVID F. SULLIVAN, Maple.
ELECTRICAL WORK:
GEORGE FE. JOHNSON, Allyn.
ARTHUR J. NEWELL, Washington Avenue.
GEORGE M. PRENTICE, JR., Essex.
TEXTILE WORK:
FRED A. McLANE, North Pleasant.
WALTER H. ARMSTRONG, Nonotuck.
EUGENE R. ALDERMAN, Pearl. .
HOME-MAKING:
MRS. JOHN J. FINN, Linden.
MRS. CAROLINE MOQUIN, Pine.
MRS. ALMA SCHIRCH, Walnut.
The meetings and office hours are as follows: |
SCHOOL BOARD. ,
A regular public meeting is held on the first Monday
evening of every month at o'clock. te
This is the only public meeting held during the month.

}
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
The annual meeting for organization is held on the first
Tuesday evening in January at o’clock.
A meeting of all sub-committees is held on the last Monday evening of every month at o’clock.
A meeting of the sub-committees on supplies is held on
or about the  th of everv month at o’clock in the even- ing.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION. |
A regular meeting is held on the first Tuesday evening
of every month at o’clock. |
SUPERINTENDENT. |
In office on school days from a. m. to m. and |
from p. m. to p. m. |
In office on Saturday mornings and Tuesday evenings
by appointment.
SECRETARY TO SUPERINTENDENT.
The office hours are: a. m. to a. m. and p. m.
to p. m. on all school days. On Saturdays and during vacations: a. m. to m.
OFFICE.
The office is open from a. m. to p. m. on all school
days, and from a. m. to m. on Saturdays and during the
summer vacation. During other vacations and school holidays the hours are from a. m. to m. and p. m. to
. op. m.
The office is closed on all legal holidays.
ATTENDANCE OFFICERS.
The attendance officers are in the office on all school days
from p. m. to p. m. and on Monday and Wednesday evenings, except during vacations, from p. m. to p. m.
The hours on Saturdays and during the summer vaca- ,
tion are from a. m. to m. During other vacations and

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
school holidays the hours are from a. m. to m. and  
p. m. to p. m.
MINORS’ CERTIFICATES.

The hours for issuing employment or educational certificates to minors are a. m. to p. m. and from p. m. to  
p. m. on all school days; from p. to p. m. on Monday
and Wednesday evenings except during vacations; from  
a.m. to m. on Saturdays and during the summer vacation ;
and from a. m. to m. and from p. m. to p. m. dur- 
ing other vacations and school holidays.

SCHOOLHOUSE AGENT.

The schoolhouse agent is in the office from a. m. to
  a. m. and from p. m. to p. m. on all school days.

The hours on Saturdays and during all vacations are
from a. m. to m.

The school calendar for is as follows:

DAY SCHOOL TERMS.

Winter term began January .

Winter term ends February .

Spring term begins March .

Spring term ends April :

Summer term begins May .

. Summer term ends June .

Fall term begins September .

Fall term ends December .

Winter term begins January .

EVENING SCHOOL TERMS.
High School.

Term of began September ends
March —

Term of begins September ends
March .



  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Vocational School.
Term of began October ends March
  .
Term of begins October ends March
 |
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Term of began October ends Feb- ,
— ruary .
Term of begins October ends February .
VACATIONS.
February to March inclusive. 
May to May inelusive.
July to September inclusive.
December  to January inclusive. !
SCHOOL HOLIDAYS.
Every Saturday, New Year’s Day, Washington's Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of
July, Labor’s Hohday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day
with the day following, Christmas Dav, and Teachers’ Convention Days.
LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
Washington's Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.
|

PART II.
REPORT OF THE SCHOOL BOARD
To His Honor the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

Your School Board herewith reports, in general way,
the work of the School Department for the past twelve
months ending November It properly falls to the
Superintendent and the heads of departments to give in
detail the work carried on and the results obtained. While
direct contact with the schools is the sphere of the Superintendent, the heads of departments and the teachers, yet we,
your Board and representatives, consider it our duty to visit
the schools as often as our time will allow, that we may be in
closer touch with their varied life and needs. When questions
arise concerning the policy to be pursued, we shall then be
the better able to act imtelligently.

SCHOOL SYSTEM CORPORATION.

Our school system may be likened to great corporation.
The people are the stockholders and the members of the
School Board are the directors directly responsible to the
people for the profit or loss in the management. The profit
or loss is not in dollars and cents, but in results that will
either strengthen or weaken the public school system. It
should be the policy of all school administrations to be sure
of the new before casting’ out the old. The policy that we
endorse in our schools is the one that will count either for
success or failure. There is no other committee, board or eommission in our midst upon whose actions depend so much the
present and the future welfare of our fair city. Here in our
public schools the rich and the poor, the high and the low,

|
|
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
all races and creeds come together and jostle elbows. From |
this great ‘‘melting pot’’ comes the great mass of citizens
who will perpetuate the republic along the lines on which it |
was founded. As result of our school system, from the |
principles embcdied therein, this nation stands out preeminently tcday from the nations of the earth as people |
who believe that there shall be equal rights to all and injus- !
tice to none. |
MODERN SCHOOLS MORE COMPLEX. |
The schools of fifty vears ago, yes, down to far more |
recent date, did not face the problems we are facing today. |
History shows, however, that the school authorities of those
days met the demands upon them intelligently and well. Today our civilization is complex; the old methods are outgrown. Then professional training had to do very largely
with the training of the lawyer, the physician and the clergyman. Now the field is not only vast in the above professions,
but it is tremendous in the fields of commerce and business
Today there is universal demand for well-trained hands |
as well as well-trained minds. We believe that the course |
to which the schools have been set is just to the coming eitizens, just to the employer, just to the taxpaver, and econonni- !
cal to all. We believe that this course spells efficiency, and
therefore will give strength and endurance everywhere; that |
efficiency spells intelligence, prosperity, happiness and contentment, and that as result high grade of eitizenship
will follow. Your Board declared in former report: ‘‘We
do not deery the cultural.’’ We wish to add with equal emphasis that we do not. decry the practical. So, as we look the
school field over in our city we believe that our public schools
were never on so firm and practical basis as they are today.
HIGH SCHUOOL.
It is the policy of the school authorities to strengthen the |
faculty of the High School whenever it  possible to do so.
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
That the graduates are allowed to enter the leading colleges
on certificate, and that many of them take high honors, is
sufficient evidence that the school is in flourishing condition.

HIGH SCHOOL COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT.

We would call special attention of the manufacturers

- and merchants of the city and vicinity to the finely equipped
commercial department of the High School, and to the modern methods in vogue which will compare favorably with
any commercial school in this section. Exceptionally welltrained, practical teachers who understand the needs of the
office are in charge. We extend an invitation to the com- }
mercial interests of the city when in need of reliable, intelligent office help to get in touch with this department. It
would be worth while for those interested to visit the school
and note the fine work done. It stands out clearly that such
a department is not run for profit as the socalled ‘‘commercial schools’’ are, and therefore any information given as to
the qualification of the pupils will be unbiased.

HIGH SCHOOL LUNCH COUNTER.

The lunch counter is managed by Miss Nellie Boland;
under whose intelligent and sympathetic direction this department has become very popular.

It is hoped that there will be better accommodations  n
the near future for the large number of students who assemble here to have lunch in so brief time.

EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.

This school is being maintained to the high standard it
has so long enjoyed. The school authorities are on the alert
to strengthen the evening schools through trained teachers
and necessary equipment. With the limited time at their
disposal the young men and young women who attend this
school should have skillful teachers and every aid to the

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

advancement for which they so earnestly strive. Those who

willingly make sacrifices to improve their opportunities are

sure to make reliable help. Many of the pupils who have received training in the commereial departinent of the Evening High School are among the most valued employes today.
EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. |

These schools are accomplishing wonderful results in
preparing those who are seeking an edueation to solve the .
problems of hfe, and in aiding them to citizenship. Over
twelve hundred have taken advantage of these evening ele| mentary schools this season, and while these schools cost
money, it is money well expended; for they go far toward
building useful, intelligent men and women.
MANUAL TRAINING.

This department in both day and evening schools  s
proving to be decided suecess. To those whose talents are |
inclined this way this course is an Important stepping stone
to industrial education. The school authorities hope to have
a ‘‘public night’* soon:at which time all citizens will be invited to imspect the work of the Evening High School and
the Evening Vocational School.

INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION.

Under the guidanee and advice of the State Board of
Edueation vour Board arranged for industrial education in
the new so-called Gymnasium Building. The school was
opened in September last. While the accommodations here
are not entirely acceptable to the State Board we are allowed
to use them with the understanding that in the near future
a suitable building will be erected. It is-the policy of your
Board to follow the wishes of the State Board as regards the
qualifications of teachers, equipment, accommodations, ete.,
for only upon these conditions can we receive the state aid of
fifty per cent. The eontrol of industrial education is inREPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
vested in Board of Trustees consisting of nine members,
six of whom are members of the School Board. For the workings of this department we refer you to the report of the
Board of Trustees.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND ATHLETICS.

To be thoroughly fit and enduring today it  an established fact that one must be physically trained as well as
mentally trained. Bearing this fact in mind, vour Board
through the generosity of the taxpayers met the demands for
the physical as well as the mental well-being of the rising
generation. It is conceded that Holvoke has one of the best
high school gvinnasiuns in the United States, and when the
swimming pool is finished it would seem as though there
would be nothing left to be desired in this department. With
the fine building and equipment we felt deeply the responsibility of securing the right supervisors to carry on the work.
Daniel J. Kelly who supervises the physical training and
athleaics for the boys of the High School is serving his second year. It  safe to say that he  making good to the satisfaction of all coneerned. The health and physical education of the girls was not what it should have been, but the
new gvimnashin opened the way for an equal opportunity to
them. Miss Helen Thompson was elected as supervisor of the
physieal training and athletics of the girls, and entered upon
her duties September. She comes to her work exceptionally well-trained.

In the physical development of the voung the school authorities have not overlooked the grammar and elementary
schools, for it is realized that here the foundation for health
and physical education must be laid. Louis K. Appel of
large experience in Cincinnati, was elected to supervise this
department, and entered upon his duties in April.

A mighty step has been taken in the physical well-being
of the rising generation, for the young women as well as the
young men of the city, and also for the girls and boys com  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
ing up through the grades. great philanthropist, eastern
born, declared that he had no money to bestow on eastern ,
schools, because the young men of the east were too effemnate. Were he living, and could he have been present at the
Holyoke-Springfield High School and the Holyoke-Chicopee
High School football games, this November, and have taken
| notes of the vigorous, virile, skillful playing of the Holyoke
team, we are sure that he would have gladly withdrawn his
objection to endowing eastern schools,—at least he would
have made the Holyoke High School an exception. We feel
quite sure, too, that he would have been glad to present the
High School an athletic field, and also check big enough
to cover the expense of completing the swimming pool.
SCHOOLHOUSE AGENT.

For some time your Board has considered that it would
be wise to have schoolhouse agent. whose duties would be
as follows: First, to supervise janitors and janitors’ supplies; secondly, to have general oversight of the publie school
buildings of the city; thirdly, to act as an attendance officer.
Sinee the death of Thomas W. Doyle, the position held by him
as attendance officer has been vacant. It was deemed wise to
unite the offices of schoolhouse agent and attendance officer |
into one. Edouard Cadieux was elected to the position. Mr.
Cadieux was truant officer for many vears, and brings experience and efficiency to the dual position.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS.

It is the opmion of your School Board that satisfactory
results will never be obtained under the present condition, !
for two reasons: First, with divided authority no depart- |
ment can be thoroughly efficient. This department should
be under the jurisdiction of the School Board. Secondly:
The number of medical inspectors should be reduced from |
six to not more than two or three, with the end in view that
those appointed should give their time during school hours
to the duties of the office.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
SCHOOL GARDENS.

For many years John A. Callahan, principal of the Highland Grammar School, and his corps of teachers, have done
much to interest their pupils in the cultivation of vegetables
and flowers. Every October they have fine display of these
products at the Highland School hall, and many prizes are
given out. The public has displayed much interest in the
annual exhibition, and as result the parents and friends, as
well as the pupils, have profited thereby. The pupils bring
home many prizes from the Northampton Fajr every year.

The West Holyoke School is another one, which through
its principal, M. S. Herbert, has accomplished great deal
in interesting the pupils in the products of the farm. For
several years Mr. Herbert has held an annual exhibition of
farm products at the school building. While these exhibitions are small as compared with those of the agricultural
fairs, we venture to say that the quality is not surpassed by
any of them. School gardens are limited on account of the
different conditions which prevail in the other districts.

REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS.

The Board of Public Works has made the following repairs and improvements: At the Lawrence School supply
room has been fitted up; at the Hamilton Street School new
sanitaries have been placed, and new boiler put in. At the
High School changes have been made to accommodate the
increasing number of pupils. This building was erected to
accommodate pupils; today there are considerably over
  in attendance. Room was divided, making two rooms
out of it, thereby increasing the accommodations for the Commercial department. The floor in room was refinished
and the room was otherwise improved for the Household Arts
department; desks were added to room to accommodate
the large class of seniors; room in the basement was fitted
up as manual training room; the walls and posts of the soealled old gymnasium at the High School, which is now be  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
ing used as lunch room, were given coat of paint. Chairs
and tables are badly needed here both as convenience and
as necessity. The lunch counter should be enlarged and rearranged to accommodate the large number of pupils who
patronize it.
RECOMMENDATIONS AS TO REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS.

We recommend that the sanitaries in the Nonotuck Street
building be replaced the coming year. The conditions here
are far from satisfactory and should be remedied at once.
We repeat the recommendation of the Board last year that
a story be added to the north end of the Elm Street building.
Such an addition would furnish two class rooms. The cost
would be small and the need is imperative to relieve even in
a small degree the congestion in this district.

The West Holyoke district is sadly in need of new
building and new grounds. To speak plainly there are no
grounds at present, simply small, uneven, unsightly patch.
A large plot of land suitable for all the requirements of a
playground should be selected, and on this land should be
erected building with two class rooms and an assembly hall :
above. This hall would meet an urgent need, and would be
much in demand by the people in this community for various ,
social and educational purposes. This recommendation could |
be carried out with small outlay, and we wish to make it
an emphatic one, for in the general improvement of our
school buildings and grounds West Holyoke has been overlooked.

Another recommendation which should be carried out in |
the near future is playground for the William Whiting
School. Every community is waking up to the fact that it is
as important to have place for- physical exercise, and |
place where the pupils can breathe the pure air, as it  to
have a.place in which to dispense mental food. There is land |
adjacent to this building which should be purchased for a
playground. |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

The much talked of shower baths should be installed in
the Morgan and West Street schools. The Playground Commission is anxious to co-operate with the School Board in the.
use of these baths by those who use the playgrounds during
the summer months.

CENTRAL GRAMMAR SCHOOL.

Your attention was called two years ago to the growing
need of Central Grammar school. The need is almost imperative today, and is receiving the earnest consideration of
your Board. This problem should be solved with great care.
It is the purpose of your Board to meet the future as well as
the present demands, in this building. It is our purpose to
work out every detail before plans are accepted and then
there will be no afterthoughts when the contract is let. An
architect has been appointed by the city government to act
in conjunction with the School Board in preparing the plans.

Respectfully submitted,
E. D. WELLS,
J. B. WEIS,
J. F. KENNEDY,
Committee on Annual Report.

; |
PART III. :
REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
|
|
To the School Board of Holyoke:
Your Superintendent herewith submits report of the
Holyoke public schools for the year  This is his third |
annual report, and the fifty-first volume in the series of
printed reports issued by the School Board. |
INTRODUCTION.
The report made in was an inventory of the local
public school system. That of was general survey.
This report is summary of all matters relating to the administration, work, progress, features and needs of the schools.
Many topics are considered. The discussion of each must be |
’ brief and general.
I. BOARD MEETINGS.
. The School Board of transacted business with
despatch and thoroughness. Twenty-four meetings year
are required by the rules. There were forty meetings in  ,
and forty-two in  In there were but twenty-eight
meetings, although the volume of business was twice as great
us In any previous year. Your Superintendent mentions this
because, as Secretary, he appreciates the facet that the prompt
and efficient disposition of affairs in the Board was feature
of school work in  |
II. FINANCES. |
For the fiscal vear ending November this department received the sum of The amount ex- |
|

. REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
pended was leaving on December balance of The expenditures for the fiscal vear  
amounted to It therefore cost  more
to run the schools in than it cost in  The reasons
for this large increase in running expenses are as follows:
The growth in school population was twice as great as was
expected—four per cent instead of two per cent; special salary increases amounting to about  went into effect
December regular automatic increases in salary
amounting to about  went into effect in  increases
in janitors’ salaries amounted to about new furniture
for the Highland School cost almost extra service and
supplies in the department of attendance on account of new
employment laws cost about special supplies for manual training cost about .

Sinee there are practically no large salary increases and
no extraordinary expenditures expected for this department estimates that the amount spent last year plus
$  will cover expenses for this school year. This extra
sum includes  for automatic increases in salary, 
for special increase,  for High School library and librarian,  for extra teaching in the Evening High School,
and  for one extra teacher in the grades. The appropriation requested from the city government is This
does not include probable receipts of  from dog taxes,

: tuition and other sources.

For detailed financial statement as to receipts, expenditures and estimates see the tables in Part IV of this volume.
III. SPECIAL FINANCIAL REPORT.
See special financial insert sheet detailing the cost of
running the schools for year. The items cover all expenditures for support of schools. Outlay is not included in support. Therefore the cost of new buildings, additions, improvements and sites does not show in the table. This special
sheet is for the year, July It, to June as pre|
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS .
|
seribed by the State Board of Edueation. Other financial |
tables are for the past fiscal year of the city, December  ,
  to November .
IV. SALARIES.
In and the Board made thorough investigation of school salaries paid cities like Holyoke. This resulted in fair and careful adjustment of the salaries of all !
those in the service of the department. During the |
Board denied practically every petition for further increase |
In salary, on the grounds that as compensation goes in school
work, the salary schedule in Holvoke is most reasonable. |
V. ACCOMMODATIONS.
, Holyoke is far in advance of the average city in the matter of school accommodations. The property is well kept;
the furnishings and equipment are very good. This fact
should encourage the city to press forward with reasonable
steps toward even better conditions. The proposed new Lawrence School should be built at once. vertical addition to
the one-story part of the Elm Street school should be made |
this summer. The people of West Holvoke should have new
school building. The school population of the Highlands has
increased by about in two years. Both schools which serve
this section will soon be overcrowded. In the High School
there is danger of congestion. This can be minimized by better arrangement of classes, use of waste space and few constructional changes.
 
VI. NEW LAWRENCE SCHOOL.
The slogan ‘‘Build Now’’ is applicable in the ease of the
proposed New Lawrence School. The central school district
is congested. The present Lawrence School is old, dark, noisy
and crowded. The playground on Maple street  the most
logical and available site for the new building. It would be
most economical to build on this site, because the sale of the

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
present Lawrence School land and building would no doubt
convert the same into taxable property, while the playground
site is owned by the city.

The new building should be modern educational plant
in every way. It should have about thirty-two rooms, an assembly hall, teachers’ library, rooms for manual training,
household arts and science and for other special departments,

- space for the administration offices of the Board, rooms for
the attendance department, central supply room, repair
shop and office for the schoolhouse agent, gymnasium,
lockers and showers together with the best modern facilities
for the social center, recreational and playground work which
should be carried on in connection with the land adjacent to
the proposed building and still available for playground activities. The new Lawrence School should be planned with
the expectation that some future reorganization of the local
school system may make it Junior high school.

VII. ATTENDANCE.
The following tables show the present condition of the
various schools so far as attendance is concerned :
Table I. Enrolment.
Dec.  Dec.  Dec.  Increase Increase
  over over  
High School.......  
Vocational School..  
Grades ..........-. 
Kindergartens ..... (Decrease)  
Total ............. 
Table II. Number Belonging. .
Dec.  Dec.  Dec.  Increase Increase
  over over  
High School ......  
Vocational School..  
Grades ............ 
Kindergartens ..... (Decrease)  
Total ............. 

\ {
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
TABLE III. Average Attendance. I
Dec.  Dec.  Dec.  Increase Increase
  over over |
High School......  
Vocational School,  |
Grades ...........  .
Kindergartens .... (Decrease)  
Total ............ 
The growth of the schools is best shown in Table II, because Table may inelude pupils who have left school, while
Table III may include members absent on account of illness
or other good reason. The membership of the schools was  
greater im than in  and greater in than in
 Using the membership figures of  and changing |
to per cent, we find the following:
Increase in membership over was per
eent.
Increase membership over was per
cent. :
Increase in membership over was per cent. :
These and other figures show that the membership of the
schools grew slowly and steadily previous to  and that
in the last two years the growth has become rather rapid and !
substantial.
VIII. KINDERGARTENS.
There are ten kindergartens, twenty kindergartners and
about four hundred children in this branch of the school system. The rooms are large, cheerful and well equipped. The
teachers are without exception very competent. The kindergarten is social and educational link joining the home and
the school. Its fundamental principles are the cultivation of
proper relationships among family, community and  school,
the development of sense of interdependence, and the cultivation of spirit of kindness and co-operation. The kindergarten aims to develop each child physically, through play,
games and work; mentally, through cultivation of attention

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
and concentration by exercise of the senses; morally, through
training in habits of obedience, promptness, industry, order,
self-control, respect, reverence. It further aims to furnish
the children with mental background for the regular
studies of the grades, by presenting to them in simple way
knowledge of form, color, size, number, and by teaching them
to tell clearly their little stories of childlike observations and
experiences. ‘These principles and aims underlie all kindergarten activities in Holyoke, and find expression and realization in the successful work of the kindergartners.

IX. ELEMENTARY DAY SCIIOOLS.

A school system is success or failure according to the
standards of its elementary dav schools. This most essential
and important branch of the department sucds or fails according to the quality of class-room instruction and the worth
of the courses of study.

In the teaching foree there are always the ‘‘necessary
few’’ who hear recitations rather than teach; who have poor
cultural preparation; who make their pupils memorize rather
than teach them to think; and who perform their duties in a
perfunctory way. Making due allowance for these, it is certain that the teaching and supervisory work in the schools is
very efficient. Most of the teachers have adequate professional and educational training. Thev carry daily to the
class room new interests, enthusiasm, definite plans of work,
power to carry out these plans, energy and alertness, and a
realization of the responsibility of their calling. These teachers are found in every school in the city. Their work  supervised in every school by competent experienced principals.
The result is high standard of class-room instruction.

The courses of study have been revised in accordance
with modern, conservative educational theory and practice.
Various committees of principals did the work of revision.
The greatest stress was placed on the fundamentals—English,
writing and arithmetic. These new courses have been suc, |

|

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |

cessfully tried and will be recommended fer final adoption, |

practically as formulated. new course in geography is in |

use in all the schools. Courses in history and civics and in |
nature study are awaiting trial. The work in physical training has been defimtely outlined, and the courses in manual
training and drawing have been revised and correlated in the
first six grades. The prelimimary work toward new complete course of study in all elementary school subjects  practically finished. It remains to study all the proposed courses

in the light of the experience of supervisors, principals and |

teachers, make further revisions, consider modifications, and
take final action toward presenting to the School Board for
adoption and printing complete outline course of study. It
should be understood that to date, all work has been provi| sional. An idea of subjects taught, time allotted, and the |

present status of the various courses may be obtained from :

the following suggested time schedule: |

PROPOSED TIME SCHEDULE .
Subjects and Minutes Per Week
®
—  er alc.  ys Grades (ES,  Totals Remarks  
Opening KE x- Largelv devotercises  so  }; ).  tional
| |
Reading and Aldine method
Literature  New reading list
| in preparation
: ae
Writing TH!  ); Palmer method
Pit dd de
Arithmetic |
Oral and  New course in
Written  use
‘ |
Language New course in
and Grammar  use
|
| Outline to be
Spelling  made
|
| New course in
Geography  use
| |
History |
and Civics Course ready
Nature |
Study  }, Course ready
, |
Physiology Course to be preand Hygiene  pared
t |
| |
| Course to be preMusic   pared

| New course, six
Drawing  O' o!  O!  GO! grades
Manual New course, six
Training. grades. Sewing in
and Sewing  and  
|
Physical |
Training ) Special course
| |
Recess  
Early |
Dismissal 
Total Minutes: lo Jf J} fo ot |
a Weck  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
| X. DAY HIGH SCHOOL. |
Within two years two detailed reports of the High School
have been presented by Principal Conant, and two general
reports have been made by your Superintendent. special
complete report on all matters relating to the High School
will be submitted next June. It therefore seems best at this
time to state few important facts, present certain recommendations and quote from general report recently written
by the principal. The local High School compares very favorably with similar institutions. Each department is well
organized. The work of the department heads is especially
praiseworthy. The quality of class-room instruction is, in
most cases, very good. New courses of study, better text
books, improved methods of instruction, the lengthening of !
the school day to about five and one-half hours and of the
period to one hour have added to the efficiency of the High
School. At the same time the cost per pupil per vear has .
been reduced from  to Your Superintendent would |
make these recommendations: That definite plan of home
visiting by teachers be formulated; that well equipped lbrary be established and competent, experienced specialist
mm Ihgh School library work be engaged to take charge of it; |
that. all courses of study be revised and rewritten for September,  that an investigation be made to determine the
feasibility of reopening the part-time industrial course; that
the course in domestic science be correlated with the school |
lunch department; that the Commercial department and the |
technical courses be so organized that each will amount practically to specialized Iligh School. The following excerpts
from the report just submitted by Principal Conant merit
eareful reading ,
“Last year recommended that the class periods be increased
from forty-five minutes to one hour, and that each class report less
frequently for full hour recitation, or the same number of times
with divided period, part being devoted to study and part to class
work. The latter plan has been followed with good results. About
forty-five minutes are given to the regular recitation work, and about

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
fifteen minutes to supervised study of the lesson for the following day.
It is no longer necessary to have double periods in some of the subjects, as the full hour makes convenient recitation unit. The lengthening of the school day one-half hour by beginning ten minutes earlier
and ending about twenty minutes later has seemed, so far. to bring no
unnecessarv hardship either to the pupils or the teachers. An improvement can be noticed in the work.

“The physical training is receiving much attention and in more
scientific manner. No pupil may go on the gymnasium floor unless in
proper uniform. Care is taken by both physical instructors to give
attention to the personal needs of each pupil as far as the large classes
will allow. The gymnasium work  divided into drill work, class use
of gymnasium apparatus, corrective work and games. These games
come at the latter part of the period and on certain afternoons which
are devoted entirely to this purpose.

“A plan has been carried out in the classes of the third and fourth
year to group the students in their English work, so that pupils taking
similar courses would be in the same divisions. The three courses that
constitute the basis of division are the college course, commercial, and
general courses. The work in the college course follows closely the
lines laid down for college entrance requirements. In the commercial
course, books and periodicals are read and essays written on themes
dealing with the matters more vital to the pupils in the business subjects. In the general course, broader view is taken of English work,
and time is given to texts and articles not necessarily asked for by the
College Examination Board. Next year the step will go still further,
and the first and second-year classes will be organized along somewhat
similar lines. This does not mean that the work is made easier, only
that it is more satisfactory for pupil to study about the things in which
he has greater interests and which bring him in closer contact with the
problems he will have to face on leaving school. To carry out this
work more successfully, and also to aid in similar line of work in
the History department, it  necessary that the equipment of our
library be given more serious attention. For several years past. the
hbrary has had very meagre additions. With the demands from colleges for more reference work and with the necessity of the study of
economic and political questions, it is quite apparent that our hbrary
shelves should be brought more up to date, and the work placed under

‘ the supervision of competent and trained librarian.

“An attempt was made this year to take up in lecture form plan
of character education. With this in view, Mr. Milton Fairchild of
Baltimore was engaged to give series of three talks to our bovs, the
subjects being. ‘True Sportsmen,’ ‘Thrift,’ and ‘Conduct Becoming a
Gentleman.’ These lectures, which were illustrated, excited consider"  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
able interest on the part of the students. The plan is to follow them
up with some form of written work and consultations with the boys,
with the object of fixing in their minds certain principles of conduct
that will assist them in gaining and holding their proper places in

 society. ,

“It is somewhat debated question whether ethics and subjects
dealing with moral principles can be taught by formal instruction. A
pupil of high school age, believe, is best reached by an indirect
method in these subjects; that is, he may be taught the rules which
should govern his conduct, both in and out of school, by lessons drawn
from his study of English. history, principles of science, the accuracy
of mathematics, his association with fellow-students in his high school
clubs, and in his amusements and sports. Through conferences with
teachers and individual talks along lines of the pupil’s interests, he
may be encouraged in forming higher ideals of his obligations to himself, his fellow pupils and to the community.

“In the Domestic Science department believe suitable rooms
could be arranged in the basement, and if they were placed in the same
condition as the manual training room, would make well-lighted, suttable and accessible rooms for cooking, and more work could be done
in connection with the high school lunch.

“The Commercial department  more and more keeping in touch
with the business lite of the community. Last year several talks were
given betore the Commercial department by men prominent in certain
lines of work. Mr. J. B. Weis spoke on ‘Safety Paper’; Dr. John S.
Lyon, Director of the Chamber of Commerce, on ‘Civic Team Work’;
Mr. Noyes, cost accountant, on ‘Overhead Charges.’ The head of
the department is utilzing much of his spare time in getting in personal touch with the business men of this community. recommendation is made that we outfit small room which is connected with the
Commercial department, in the form of model oftice.

) “While the school has certain demands to prepare students for
definite courses in colleges and technical schools, there is still greater
demand in less formal way to prepare our pupils so that they will be
more ethcient in whatever they may undertake for their life’s work.
  believe that the courses of study are so arranged with this in view,
that the moral and physical development of the pupil should be kept in
mind, and that the changes in our work should never be made simply
to enrich courses, but should be with the sole idea of the needs of
betterment of the pupils.

“Steps should be taken to secure land near the High School building fora suitable athletic field. This could be done through the efforts
of the Athletic Association in connection with the School Department.
IT hope to be able to formulate more positive plan in this connection
at an early date.”

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCITOOLS  
XI. HOLYOKE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.

The remarkable success of this school shows how much it
was needed in Holyoke. The membership of the day school
more than tripled in year. The evening classes are organized on unit course basis and serve twice as many pupils as
formerly. The instruction is excellent and the equipment is
superior. The Board of Trustees for Vocational Education
Is preparing complete, illustrated report of the work done
in the day and evening elasses. It therefore seems unnecessary to go into detail regarding this new branch of the school
department, beyond stating that the school now operates
courses as follows: For boys between fourteen and twentyfive vears of age, four-year courses preparatory for the following trades: Carpentry and Building, Pattern Making,
Machine Shop Practice and Printing. For tradesmen, the |
evening school offers trade extension courses in Carpentry

, and Building, Cabinet Construction, Pattern Making, Bricklaving, Electricity, Steam Engineering, Firing, Machine Shop
Practice, Tool Making, Printing, Paper Making and Decorative Plastering. For women, there are evening practical arts
classes in Sewing, Dressmaking, Cooking, Millinery, I[ome
Nursing and Embroidery. .
XII. ELEMENTARY EVENING SCHOOLS.

Four schools supervised by experienced principals, three
of whom are grammar masters in the day schools, comprise
this branch of the department. Practically all of the teachers are graduates of normal schools and more than one-third
are regular day school teachers. There are about twelve hundred enrolled pupils. The average attendance in all schools
to date is ninety per cent—a most remarkable record for
evening school pupils. Books written espeeially for evening
schools have been supphed and the work of the vear has been
definitely planned. The special classes in sewing and dressmaking are having good su ss. uniform method of grading and grouping pupils is in effeet. This type of school

!
t
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
work cannot be described in report. Only by direct observation can it be really appreciated.
XII. EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
This school is having its most suecessful year. In September,  the Evening Vocational School and the Even- |
ing Iligh School were organized under separate heads. The
latter is operated on the day High School basis with depart- |
ments, courses of study, definite requirements for diploma,
regular recitation periods and other features of the modern
evening High School. The report of the principal deseribes
the growth and efficiency of the Commercial department, the
development of Manual Training and Mechanical Drawing,
the splendid work of the classes in Civil Service, the success
of the new elass in Freehand Drawing, and the work in the
various academic courses. Two important points are made |
by Principal Garvey as follows:
“In addition to the regular courses leading to diploma, would
like to see few short courses opened in subjects which appeal to the
more mature or advanced pupils. Each year there are several pupils
enrolled in cultural subjects whose ages range between twenty-five and
forty years. They are often embarrassed by being grouped in classes
with pupils of sixteen or eighteen years of age, and they soon drop out.
“Tt seems to me that we have reached period in the life of the
school when we can develop something in the nature of people’s
forum for instruction in subjects of general civic interest. True, we
have class in debating which is doing good work, but its scope is too
small and its members are young men and women of little more than
high school age. My idea is to broaden this course and make it appeal
to all citizens. For instance, there is splendid chance at present, with
more or less agitation as to charter revision, city manager, or commission government, to develop class in municipal government and discussion of everyday problems arising in municipality.”
ATV. SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS.
Definite plans have been made to increase the efficieney
of the six special departments. Some of these plans are now in
effect and some are ready for presentation to the supervisors.
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCIIOOLS  
In manual training, the elementary hand work for the first
six grades has been correlated with the drawing. combined
course has been formulated, and the work has been put in
charge of two competent instructors. The wood-working
course in grades seven, eight and nine is unsatisfactory as it
stands. Mr. Hamill, who has charge of manual training in
the grammar grades, has worked out splendid course on the
practical arts basis, which is ready for adoption. In the High
School the work of the first two years is being extended, enriched and correlated with the work of other departments.
The metal-working and machine shop courses for the third
and fourth year boys, given in the Vocational shops, are not
much in demand.

The sewing classes in the grammar grades and in the
High School have had successful year. There is need of
further extension of sewing and definite plan of work. The
feature of the work in drawing is the increasing emphasis
which is being placed on the practical element, and the definite correlation with the manual training department. The
question of writing is discussed in another section. The work
In music has been uniformly good. The task of organizing the
new department controlling matters of health and physical
education is on the way to successful accomplishment. What
has been done to date should be considered only as good beginning. When this work is thoroughly organized, supervised and correlated with the various activities of the city
relative to health, physical education, playground work ani
athletics, then it will be proper to state that Holyoke is taking advantage of her opportunity for leadership in great
work. These general statements are supplemented by the fol:
lowing quotations from reports made by special teachers:

“Sixty-five boys have elected to take the subject of manual training
this year. Construction of individual pieces of furniture has been carried on. Many of the smaller pieces were finished by the pupils for
Christmas, and enough others are under construction to make creditable showing at the end of the year. The stock-room was cleaned out,
and new racks erected for the lumber. The old benches are heing re  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

surfaced. Many of them now present an appearance of having been
recently purchased, and it is hoped the others may be completed before
June. Two closets in the sewing room were fitted out with shelves for
the convenience of classes using that room.

“Tt is hoped that greater co-operation may soon exist between the
Sewing, Drawing, Domestic Science and Manual Training departments.
The west side of the sewing room might be utilized as model apartment. This would offer the best opportunity for the teachers and pupils
of these four departments to work for common object. Close correlation could be effected if the Sewing classes were to finish curtains and
draperies designed by the Art department. Manual Training classes
could make the furniture, and correlate with the Art department in
considering color schemes and wall paper. Here would be an opportunity also to initiate new line of work in the nature of tooled
leather and art meta) work designed in the Art department and worked
out in the Manual Training room.” (From Report on High School
Manual Training by C. B. Park.)

“Tt would be well to organize pre-vocational classes in some of the
schools of the city. Separate groups of grammar school pupils could
be organized to work along lines of recognized trade training, but permitting of no thorough training in any single trade. This might be
termed ‘trade survey’ course. Each trade touched upon must be dealt
with in manner offering both practical training and theoretical study.
The practical training should consist of such work in each trade as
would make boy familiar with technical terms and tools. He would
be expected to acquire only limited amount of skill. The work would
come from definite need connected with school life. It should make
the boy, while working on his allotted job, realize to limited degree
some of the feelings experienced by the apprentice or journeyman.
The theoretical study would consist of shop or classroom talks, bringing out in the simplest and fairest manner possible the advantages to
be found in each trade. This would be combined with visits to the
various shops in the city, made after the class has learned what it may
expect to find, in order that thorough appreciation may be felt for
the work viewed under construction. The aim of such pre-vocational
classes should he to develop in the boy the ability to choose trade
intelligently. The object of these classes would be to reduce the
amount of objectless drifting from one trade to another, or one job
to another during the first few years after the boys leave grammar
school.” (From Report of Robert Hamill, Director of Manual Train. ing in the grades.)

“In schools where sewing is begun in the seventh grade, the results are so good that would ask permission to start the work in the

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
sixth grade next year. We find that many girls can go through the
High School comfortably, if they are able to make their own clothes.
This would be quite possible if the training in sewing were extended.

“In the High School three hundred and seventy-six garments have
been finished for personal use of the pupils, and about fifty garments
for charitable purposes. The added facilities for work in this department at the High School, make it possible to broaden the course.
It is hoped that we may, in the near future, furnish small apartment
of several rooms. The Manual Training department could make the
furniture, the Art department could furnish designs for decorations,
and the Household Arts department would make curtains, table linen,
bed linen, do all other needlework, and care for the rooms.” (Krom
Report of Supervisor of Household Arts, Mrs. Perkins.)

“There is strong and growing tendency among progressive educators to make art education in the public schools of practical value in
the ordinary affairs of life. The new outline has been prepared with
this thought in mind. Much has been retained from the old outline
that has proved itself of special worth, and new work has been added
that promises to enrich the course in drawing and to train pupils along
practical lines of work that later will prove valuable.

“An interesting experiment was made in correlating work in the
Printing department of the Vocational School with the Art department
of the High School. The High School pupils designed Christmas cards.
The size of the cards, the position of the printing, and the planning
space for later decoration were determined. Directions were sent to
the Printing department of the Vocational School, and the cards were
returned, printed as directed, and very attractive in appearance. The
High School pupils added their own decorations, and the cards were
most attractive.” (From Report of Supervisor of Drawing, Mrs.
Ferry.)

“The physical training for boys in the High School has shown
marked advancement this year. There are two hundred and sixtyseven boys enrolled in physical training classes. This year the work is
carried on in the new gymnasium, where the conditions are ideal. The
boys are very enthusiastic. The work consists of military marching
and tactics, free-hand corrective exercises, hygienic dumb bell and wand
drills, apparatus work, recreative and competitive games. The exercises are arranged so that they can be adapted to the weak as well as
to the strong. All exercises are practiced for good health and not for
mere strength. Lectures in first-aid and personal hygiene are given
throughout the year.

“Athletics is another form of physical education, and the school
supports contests with other schools in rugby and soccer football,

|
. !
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
basketball, track, tennis and hockey. During the past year one hundred
and eighty boys tried for positions on school teams. |
“For the benefit of boys desiring to take part in athletics and who
cannot earn place on the school teams, interclass games are held |
during the year. Great interest is shown by classes at these games. |
The physical director’s aim is to have all boys in the school take part
in some form of physical training.” (From Report of Physical Direc- !
tor of High School, Daniel J. Kelly.) |
“When the school year opened, the work in physical |
education for girls was started on new basis. With new gym- |
nasium and lockers for the exclusive use of the girls, it was possible
to require regulation gymnasium uniform.
“The girls were taught how to stand and walk correctly, followed
hy simple marching for rhythm, which gradually became more complicated to fancy marching. Instruction was given in the commands and
positions for the various movements of the arms, legs, head and trunk.
When these were learned they were combined in various exercises,
gradually growing more complicated. Following these, dumb hell and
wand drills were learned. The latter part of each lesson has been devoted to either apparatus work or games. For the former, work has
been done on the stall bars, the Swedish boom, climbing ropes and
jumping. The games started with simple line and circle games, gradually becoming more complicated to battle-ball, volley ball and basketball. An afternoon each week has been devoted entirely to basketball
in addition to the regular class work. Many teams have been formed.
“The marching, exercises, drills, apparatus work and games will
continue to become more complicated as the year advances. Folk and
simple aesthetic dancing have been started. Tennis is the great game
for the spring, and we earnestly desire number of tennis courts.
With the addition of swimming next year, the physical education for
the girls of the High School will take step forward, and the other
work will continue to increase and expand.” (From Report of Physical Instructor for Girls of the High School, Helen F. Thompson. )
“From grades three to nine inclusive, much has been done in
Formal Gymnastics. This is by far the most important branch of
Physical Education, especially for elementary schools. It reaches every
child and is vitally essential, owing to the disciplinary, educational,
hygienic and corrective values it makes possible. The lessons are outlined according to definite scheme, using the best of the GermanAmerican svstem of gymnastics, which is in vogue in most large cities.
The close relation with the ‘type feature’ of each exercise and the
fundamental social activities involuntarily arouse the child’s interest.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
The formal lesson calls into use the groups of large muscles and has
as its ultimate purpose the harmonious development of the entire muscular system and the strengthening of the vital organs. The combhinations are not difficult, yet very pleasing to the eye. If the lessons
are alternated frequently, monotony can be readily avoided and interest maintained. In my opinion, Formal Gymnastics, when properly
taught, are the only rational method of bringing the greatest possible
Dhysical good to the entire number of children.

“Games have been introduced. The fact that the play instinct in
every normal child is very marked makes this phase of the work very
popular. With view to reaching all the pupils, only those games
have been selected which keep all the children busy all or most of the
time. School room conditions are not always the most favorable for
playing games but, with the proper precautions, all the danger element
can be eliminated. The focalization of attention, the development of
judgment, and the acquisition of self-control are perhaps the most important elements to be attained in playing games.

“In the first and second grades, the foundation for Formal Gymnastics is laid. Singing games, nature and industrial plays are serving
to link close connection between the beginning of school life and its
preceding undisturbed play-stage.

“Interscholastic sports are indulged in with lively interest. We
must be very careful how far we permit competitive sports and athletics. There is prevailing tendency to give them an undue prominence in the elementary schools. This should not be too heartily encouraged, because the average school boy has not yet attained the
proper physical strength which will permit him to indulge in sports
which tax his heart and lungs to the utmost. Too often boy is incapacitated in later years because of physically overstraining himself in

" youth. The baseball championship was won by the Lawrence School.
A Field Day was held June  th at Riverside Park. The Metcalf School
was the winner of the meet. The soccer league games were played at the
Berkshire grounds and proved quite successful. The pennant was won
by Morgan School. The aim of this department in regard to interscholastic events is to work towards making playing conditions tdeal,
for only thereby can spirit of ‘Fair Play’ be engendered into our
youth.

“In conclusion, again wish to lay emphasis on Formal Gymnastics. It is the little amount daily that keeps the health at its normal
status. It is not the boy or girl who takes delight in outdoor games
and activities that we must reach most, but rather the boy or girl who
is prone to remain inactive or who, on account of physical inferiority.
is forced to become the constant spectator. The most natural avenue
open to reach him is through gymnastics, which permit him to do the

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
same things as his more physically favored schoolmate. Any special branch, unless instructed entirely by special teachers, owes its success
to the regular teacher, who, by her enthusiasm and vigor, can accom- |
phish much.” (From Report of Director of Health and Physical Education, Elementary Schools, Louis K. Appel.)
XV. WRITING.

The work is based on the ‘‘Palmer Method’’ and is supervised. For two years the teachers have given unsparingly
of their time and energy in the interests of good writing.
They have learned special uniform method of teaching the
subject. Many have received certificates of special ability to
write aud to teach writing. The werk of the grades is suecessfully continued in the High School by the Commercial department. Additionally the head of the English department
reports to the Commercial teachers all pupils whose writing .
is defective. These pupils receive individual help. All the
eredit for the good results obtained should be given to the
teachers. There is in preparation graded course in writing, which definitely outlines the work of each grade and
which leads to Palmer diploma in the upper grades.

XVI. MILITARY TRAINING IN HIGH SCHOOLS.

The question of establishing military training in high
schools and colleges is under discussion In many places. Men
of national prominence are taking sides in the matter. Meanwhile the movement is rapidly gaining ground. Many high
schools have made military training for boys requirement
for graduation. Some call it militarism. Others, hke President. Hibben of Princeton, term it preparation for an emergeney, and advocate ‘‘diffusion of military knowledge and experience widely throughout the nation.’’ The character of
the men discussing this subject is sure to arouse national interest. It is certain that any action taken by the local School
Board in this matter will follow calm discussion of subject
which merits the most careful consideration. —

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
XVII. NEW RULES.

The new rules and regulations of this department have
operated most successfully. They are definite, complete and
comprehensive. No more progressive school board legislation has been enacted in the whole country. The American
School Board Journal gave much of its valuable space to publication of all the striking features of these new rules in the
issue of January,  Despite the fact that the rulcs are
very detailed, and have attracted wide attention, objections
have been raised on but three points: (a) No detailed index
is printed. (b) The morning recess should be prescribed
outdoor recess. (ce) The serving on the parent by the principal of notice of intention to punish pupil bodily, is in
some cases very unsatisfactory procedure. The Board will
act on these criticisms. |

XVIII. RECORD SYSTEM IN GRADES.

The card system installed in each school and room covering admission, discharge, promotion, attendance, scholarship,
transfers and reports of work is most satisfactory. Each
teacher has card index of her class. Each principal has a
eard index of the school, and the chief facts concerning its
members. The records are cumulative and permanent for each
pupil. The system is great help to your Superintendent
in furnishing information requested by the numerous state
boards and commissions. |

XIX. APPOINTMENT OF TEACHERS.

This vexing problem appears to be solved in Holyoke.
On the principle that the authority of the Superintendent
should measure up with his responsibility, the appointment
of teachers has been placed absolutely in his hands. Your
Superintendent has seen fit to set down definite. requirements
in the form of professional educational and cultural qualifications which all candidates must meet if they wish to.be
appointed to teaching positions. For example, all applicants.

|
|
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
for appointment to the grades must meet the following requirements: |
 Evidence of graduation from recognized high ,
school and from recognized normal school.
|  Evidence of at least one vear’s successful experience
as teacher in charge of school.
 Evidence of good scholarship in high school and
normal school work, and satisfactory recommendations from |
employing superintendents and prineipals. |
 Evidence of good character, health and temperament.
 Evidence of ability through personal interview with
the Superintendent, and through visit of investigation
made by the Superintendent or principal representing him |
to classes taught by the applicant.
 Evidence, by written examination, of proper knowledge of subjects, pupils, teaching methods and general educational history and psychology.
 (May be substituted for and  .) Applicants who
have high school diploma and are graduates of recognized college or kindergarten training school (at least two
vears’ course) and who additionally can present evidence of
at least three years’ successful teaching experience in charge
of graded schools, may receive permission from the Superintendent to substitute this as equivalent to Requirements and
  above.
Candidates for other positions are chosen in an equally
fair and satisfactory manner.
XX. SCHOOLHOUSE AGENT.
‘The duties of this agent, in addition to his work as attendance officer for six schools, include inspection of all school
buildings and property, supervision of all matters relating to
janitor service, and instruction of janitors as to proper methods of doing their work. The efforts of the Schoolhouse

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Agent, according to his first annual report, have resulted in
cleaner buildings, less waste in fuel, light, power and water,
the sale of  worth of old furniture, the repairing and replacing of many desks and chairs, the proper ciling of floors,
the making of numerous minor repairs and definite policy
which has made the janitor service better and more economical.
XXII. USE OF WATER, FUEL AND LIGHT.

It is easy to waste things furnished at public expense.
The cost of water, fuel and light in some of the schools illustrates this. By determined and continual efforts this waste
will be eliminated. year ago the janitors were furnished
with all the figures showing distribution of the cost of lighting, heating and furnishing water and power to the various
schools. An earnest attempt was made to cut down expenses
on these items. Conditions are better, but there is room for
improvement. The campaign against this waste and extrav- agance will continue until satisfactory results are obtained.
 XXII. SCHOOL CENSUS.

The number of children of school age in the city in September,  was  Of this number were between
five and seven years of age, between seven and fourteen,
and between fourteen and sixteen. Valuable facts were
secured concerning persons between sixteen and twenty-one
vears of age. The work was done in accordance with the new
legislation of relative to the school census. Eighteen ,
enumerators were given definite instructions and their work
was supervised by the attendance officers. card system was
used. The census was taken in business-like way. The results are honest and accurate, and the individual cards form
a most valuable permanent census record. The census of  
totalled  The increase of in is not an actual
gain, because the upper limiting age was raised by new legis- |
lation from fifteen to sixteen.

| REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
XXII. STATE SUPPORT FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

The State Board of Education recently recommended legislation to provide state public school fund, by state tax
of one mill or one-half mill on each dollar of valuation.
This fund, controlled by the state authorities, would be used
in support of public schools in cities and towns which need it.
The proposition should be well considered by legislators and
school boards. State aid in particular cases, like industnal
schools, seems well established. State support in general
way for public schools, means enlarged state control and perhaps constantly encroaching central authority. The recom- mendation challenges the accepted policy of raising money for
schools so far as possible in the community where it is to be
expended. The principle of giving equal educational opportunities to all the children in all parts of the state appears
wise, sound and generous. The question of administration is
another thing. State control of edueatiou, given to ambitious

eentral authority, is questionable poliey.

XXIV. ITEMS OF INTEREST.

The followmg brief statements may serve as substitutes
for the more complete consideration which their importance
merits:

 The fire protective measures in the schools are ample.
The responsibility for fire drills rests on the various principals. ;

 The attendance officers did splendid work in enfoveIng the new emploviment, school attendance and child labor
laws. In eonnection with day and evening school delinquents
neatly six hundred homes were visited at night so as to reach
the parents.

 The parent-teacher associations have been very active.
The first aecomphshment of the Central Council was the organization of system of school savings banks, with the Holveke National Rank as depository.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

 The school halls have been used more than ever for
lectures, concerts, whist parties, mothers’ meetings, moving
pictures of the educational type, political rallies, and other social, recreational and educational activities.

 The School Children’s Aid Fund this year amounted
to the largest amount contributed in any one year. :

 Three Holyoke teachers are receiving pensions from
the Teachers’ Retirement Association—a state organization.
One hundred and two teachers are members. They pay assessments amounting to  month.

 plan is in preparation for the opening of prevocational classes in the grammar grades. The work will be
in charge of Mr. Hamill. It will bear some relation to the
reorganized work in manual training on practical arts basis. —

XXV. TEN LABORS UNDERTAKEN IN  .

A year ago the School Board agreed to undertake ten
labors, as follows: The development of vocational education ;
the enlargement of school work in matters of health and
physical education; the extension of manual traiming; the

" improvement of the janitor service; the establishment of a
better central supply room and of branch supply rooms in all
schools; the completion of material inventory of school system; the selection of site and making of plans for the new
Lawrence School; the improvement of work in medical inspection of schools; the establishment of plan of home visiting by teachers; and study of the problem relating to eight
or nine grades, yearly or half-yearly promotions or other
reorganization of the elementary schools, particularly in the
grammar grades, aiming at economy in time, flexible promotion and department teaching. The first seven labors were accomplished. The fact that the School Board and the Board
of Health divide authority in the medical inspection of schools
has delayed improvement in that work. The home-visiting
plan is under way. In the matter of reorganizing the grades,
the School Board has constituted itself as commission toa

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
seek advice and get evidence from all possible sources on this
vital question.

XXVI. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR  .

Your Superintendent, in closing this part of the report,

asks for your consideration of the following rommendations:

 That the reorganization of the schools on the six-andsix plan be carefully studied with view to deciding what
particular organization is best suited to the needs of Holvoke.

 That particular attention be paid to developing the
six special departments, and the proposed work in practical
arts.

 That classes for backward children be better organized under specialists experienced in this work.

 That work in school and home gardens be started
and carried on under expert supervision.

). That the work in health and physical education be ,
so broadened as to correlate with all similar activities in the
city. .

 That better svstem of medical inspection of schools
be demanded.

 That all school halls be put in proper condition for
pubhe use.

 That the Science department of the High School be
furnished with complete, modern electrical equipment.

 That the proper steps be taken to provide play space
for the children of the Wilham Whiting Sehool, and to erect
anew building in West Holvoke.

 That ceonomies be effeeted—if conditions in September so warrant—by abolishing the Ewingville School and
combining the East Dwight Street School with the West

Street. School. |
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS McSHERRY.

PART IV.
STATISTICAL REPORT OF THE |
SUPERINTENDENT

To the School Board of Holyoke:

Your Superintendent submits the following statistical
report under five headings:

A—Statistics giving general information regarding the cen| sus, number of pupils, attendance, receipts and expenditures.

B—Financial statistics presenting the latest salary schedules,
showing how the school appropriation was spent and giving the accounts with the various scliools.

C—Attendance statistics covering enrolment, membership, attendance, number of teachers, distribution of pupils by
schools, grades, ages and courses.

D—Statistics comparing attendance and distribution of pupils, receipts and expenditures through several school
years.

E— Miscellaneous tables and information.

UNDER (A) GENERAL STATISTICS.
Population of Holyoke, U. S. Census, May, 
Population of Holyoke, July, (estimate)...  
Total valuation of property .................. 
School Census, September,  :

Number of children to years of age....  
Number of children to years of age....  
Number of children to vears of age ....  
Number of children to vears of age...  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Number of pupils enrolled in all public day
schools, year ending June,  ...........  
Number under years of age ............  
Number over years of age .............  
Number between and years of age......  
Average membership in all public day schools,
year ending June,  ..................  
Average attendance in all public day schools, year
ending June,  .....................  
Percentage of attendance ................  .
Total income of School Department for fiscal vear
ending November ................ 
*Total expenditure of School Department for fiseal vear ending November ........  .
Unexpended balance November ........  :
Expended from special equipment account for
Gymnasium and Vocational School........  .
Expended by Board of Public Works:
New buildings.............    
Alterations and improvements ............  
Ordinary repairs .........     eens  
Fuel, power, light and water ............  
Expended by Board of Health for medical inspectiON      cette    
Total expenditure for support of schools, year
ending November  ...............  
Total expenditure for support of schools, year
ending June  ....................  
Total expenditure for support of schools, year
ending June  ....................  
**Cost per pupil based on average membership, ,
vear ending June  ................  
Cost per pupil based on average membership,
vear ending June  ...............  *T his includes an expenditure of  which properly belongs to Vocational ducation,
**Expenditure for support of all public schools (day and evening) divided
by average membership in day schools.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Cost per pupil in day schools, year ending June
BO,  ...    eens  
Cost per pupil in evening schools, year ending
June ...     
Tax on one dollar of valuation (for support) .... 
UNDER (B) FINANCIAL STATISTICS.
TABLE I. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
 Receipts.
Dog taxes ..........  se 
Tuition .....         
Sale of furniture ................  
Sale of books ...........     
Rental of halls ............... 
Refund from state for evening vocational work ..............  
Refund from state for tuition....  
——§— 
Appropriations :
Regular salaries ............. 
Janitor salaries ...............  
Regular supplies ............ .
Janitor supplies ..............  
————— 
Total income ............... 
Total expenditures ...............  
Balance November  ........ Expenditures.
Salaries:
Day school teachers .......... 
Evening school teachers .......  
Superintendent ..............  
Secretary to Superintendent...  
Clerks ............   wees  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Attendance officers ..........  

Schoolhouse agent ............  

Janitors and matrons ........  

CensSuS  ... cc          

Helper .........      ,
Total salaries ................... ————— 
Supplies:

Rental ...........       

Furniture ........... 

Janitor and building supplies.  

Educational supplies .........  

Special department supplies...  

Text books ..............  

Truant school ...............  

Printing and advertising ...... 

Telephones ........... 

Freight, express and cartage...  

Livery ......        

Office expenses and equipment.  

Transportation of pupils ......  

Graduation and lectures ......  

Baths ......       ;

Unclassified ............  

Total supplies ............... ————— 
Total expenditures .............. 
Total receipts  ...     
Balance November  .......  

TABLE II]. ESTIMATES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER
  .

Salaries:
Day school teachers .......... 

Kvenmg school teachers .......  

Superintendent ...............  

Secretary to Superintendent...  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
| ClerkS  ...        
Attendance officers ...........  
Schoolhouse agent ............  
Janitors and matrons .........  
CensuS ....... cc    eens  
Total salaries ............... ————  
Supplies:
Rental ............  eens 
Furniture and furnishings ....  
Janitor and building supplies..  
Educational supplies .........  
Special department supplies....  
Text books .............  
High School library ..........  
Truant school ...............  
Printing and advertising......  
Telephones ..............- 
Freight, express and cartage...  
Livery ....... cc      
Office expenses and equipment..  
Transportation of pupils......  
| Graduation and lectures......  
Baths ........  ...    
Gymnasium supplies ..........  
Unclassified ............-..  
Total supplies ............... —————— 
Total estimates ............... .. 
Less probable receipts ............  
Appropriation requested .......... 
TABLE III. RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES LISTED ACCORDING TO
PLAN OF MASSACHUSETTS BUREAU OF STATISTICS.
Receipts.
Tuition of state wards ............ 
Tuition of other than state wards...  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Refund from state, vocational.......  
Refund from state, tuition paid ....  
Sale of text books and supplies ....  
Sale of old furniture .............  
Rental of halls ..................  
Dog taxeS .....  cc       ees  
Appropriation by City Government,  
Total receipts ............ .. —————  
Expenditures.
Salary of Superintendent ......... 
Salaries of Clerks (includes  Voeational School) .............  
Salaries of Attendance Officers....  
Salary of Schoolhouse Agent ......  
Printing of School Committee report,  
Office telephones .................  
School telephones ................  
Office expenses and equipment......  
Traveling expenses, Committee and
Superintendent ..............  
School census, salaries ............  
School census, supplies ............  
Teachers’ salaries:
High ...........       
Elementary ................--  
Kindergarten ..............-.  
Manual training ..............  
Evening ........      
Special ..........- ----  
Clerk, High School ..:...........  
Text books and supplies (includes .
$ Vocational School)......  
Tuition paid other cities ..........  
Transportation of pupils .......... ,
Support of truants ............  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Janitors:
High .........       ees  
, Gymmasium ...........  
Elementary ..................  
Day Vocational School ........  
Evening High ...............  
Evening Elementary .........  
Evening Vocational School....  
Office building ...............  
Matrons:
High  ...        
Elementary ..................  
Summer .......          
Janitor and building supplies (includes Vocational School),  
Furniture, repairs and replaceMENTS  ...        eens  
Furniture, new rooms, ete.........  
Office rent .........        
Graduation ...........ce  ees  
Miscellaneous printing and advertISINGY  ... ..         
Newsboys’ badges ...............  
Livery .........            
Traveling expenses, others than
Committee and Superintendent,  
Baths ......  ...   cc  eens  
High School office expenses........  
Emergency cabinets and supplies..  
Lectures ........        
Rental of halls, refund on janitor
SETVICE  ...        
Insurance on pictures and statuary, :
Distributing posters ..............  
Incidentals ...........       
Total expenditures .......... ———— 
Balance November .... 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TABLE IV. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.

Salaries Supplies Total

December ............. 
January ...............  . 
February ..............  . 
Mareh ................  . 
April .................  . 
May ..... ec.       |
Jume .......... --.  .  |
July .... es ss   |
AUGUSt .... ec      . 
September .............  . 
October ...............  . 
November .............  . 

Total for year..... 

$ 
Balance November 
TABLE V. SPECIAL EQUIPMENT ACCOUNT.

Balance assigned to School DepartMeNt ....         
Expended for Gymnasium equipMent ....... ee        
Expended for Vocational School

equipment ............-.  

Total expenditure ............ ————— 

Balance November ....  |
Machinery for Vocational School

paid for from original 

equipment account ...........  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  .
TABLE VI—RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
(DAY AND EVENING) FOR YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
 Receipts.
Appropriation ...............-...- 
Transfer from School Board.......  
Other sources ...............  
Total receipts ............... ——————. Expenditures.
Secretary .......   cc        .
Director .......  ...  cc cc  ,
Instruction .......      
Clerical service ........... ec  
Text books ............     
Supplies ........ cc      ees  
Printing and advertising .........  
Office expenses ..........eens  
Freight, express and cartage.....  
Traveling expenses ..............  
Exhibit ..  ...      
Equipment .............c     
Setting machimery ...............  
Replacements .............  
Total expenditures ........... —————— 
Balance November .... 
Nore—In addition to expenditures in Table VI, the School Board furnished
clerical services, janitor service and supplies amounting to The city
through special fund spent  for equipment. The Board of Public
Works furnished fuel, light, power and water amounting to .
TABLE VII—COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE MEMBERSHIP.
Day Schools. "
Cost Based on Cost Based on KinderTotal Expenses Teaching Only gartens
High ...........   
Voeational ...............  
East Dwight Street ......  
Elm Street ............... T

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHUULS ;
Elmwood ................  
Ewingville ...............  

Hamilton Street ..........  

Highland ................  

Ingleside ................  

Joseph Metealf ...........  

Kirtland .................  

Lawrence ...........+ +-  

Morgan ..................  

Nonotuck Street ..........  

Park Street ..............  

Sargeant Street ..........  

South Chestnut Street ....  

Springdale ..............  

West Street ..............  

West Holyoke ............  

William Whiting ......... 

Evening Schools.

High .............. .---.-  

Vocational ............... 

Lawrence .............--- 

Morgan ................ 

West Street ..............  

William Whiting .........  

TABLE IX. SALARIES IN EFFECT DECEMBER .
The established salaries of teachers shall be as follows, according

to Rules and  :

Teachers of Grades: I-IV VII VIII IX
First year ........... -+.  
second year ..........+.-.  
Third: year ...........+.+-  
Fourth year ..............  
Fifth year ................  
Sixth year .............-.  
Seventh year .............  
Fighth year ..............  
Ninth and sucding years,  


|
|
|
i
|
|
!
|
|
| |


REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  ]
Kindergartners: Principals Assistants
First year ........   
Second year ........-...-.  
Third year .............-.  
. Fourth year ..............  
Fifth year .............-.-  
Sixth year ..............-.  
. Seventh year .............. and sucding years  
Eighth and sucding years,  
High School Teachers, not heads of departments:
Men Women
First year of service.......  
Second year of service.....  
Third year of service......  
Fourth year of service.....  
Fifth year of service.......  
Sixth year of service......  
Seventh year of service..... and sucding years  
Eighth and sucding years,  
Heads of Departments—High School: Men
First year Of SErvViC€....     cence cess 
Second year Of S€rviC€.......  cer cecccsccecseese  
Third year of Service .......     ce   cesececs  
Fourth year of Service... ..        ce esecss  
Fifth and sucding years..........ce eccecsseess  
Salaries of Supervisors and Teachers in Special Departments: Fixed
by School Board.
Principals of Primary Buildings: lor  or  More than
rooms rooms rooms
First year in charge of school........ 
Second year in charge of school......  
Third year in charge of school.......  
Fourth year in charge of school......  
Fifth and sucding years...........   |
Principals of Grammar Schools: rooms More than
or less rooms
First year in charge of school..............  
Second year in charge of school............   ,
Third year in charge of school.............  
Fourth year in charge of school............  
Fifth year in charge of school..............  
I
' ,

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Sixth year in charge of school..............  
Seventh year in charge of school...........  
: Eighth year in charge of school.............  
Ninth year in charge of school..............  
Tenth year in charge of school.............  
Eleventh and sucding years.............-  
Salaries of Director and Teachers in Vocational School (day and
evening): Fixed by Board of Trustees. |
Substitutes :
In High School.......  ...  c.   ee e per day 
In grades .......     ect eetecc  per day  
In kindergartens ..........   cv s§ per day  
Teachers in Evening Schools: High Elementary
Heads of departments (men), per evening 
Men teachers ................ per evening 
Women teachers ............. per evening  
Principals of Evening Elementary Schools:
First year in charge of school.................. per evening 
Second year in charge of school................ per evening  
Third year in charge of school.................. per evening  
Fourth and sucding year................-+.-. per evening  
Janitors in: Day Schools. See Part VI.
Janitor Service in Evening Schools:
Elementary schools, for each class room....... per evening 
High School and Vocational School............ per hour  
UNDER (C) ATTENDANCE STATISTICS.
| TABLE I. ENROLMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE.
Total Number Number Average
of Teachers Total Number Belonging Attendance [Per Cent.
including Pupils Dec.  for Nov., of Attend, Principals Enrolled ance
High .........--  
Vocational ........  
Grades ...........  
Kindergartens ....  
Special Dep’tm’ts.. —
 

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS .
TABLE II. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY AGES AND
CLASSES—DECEMBER .
Class
Class Age Total Total
ros Grose OE) al ol  
Post Graduate Girls 
Boys af oe sl  |
Senior Girls   
Boys   |
Junior Girls  
Boys| abe
Sophomore Girls|   
Boys| | FeH
Freshman Girls || 
eh  red bd ‘a |
 Total Girls   
TABLE III. HIGH SCHOOL—AVERAGE AGES—DECEMBER
  .
 Class Boys Girls Total
Post Graduate yrs. yrs. mos. yrs. mos.
Senior yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos.!  yrs. mos.
Junior yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos.
Sophomore yrs. yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos.
Freshman  yrs. mos.| yrs. mos.|  yrs. mos.
TABLE IV. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY CLASSES
AND COURSES DECEMBER .
of ‘S Class or ‘SO 
pou Goose Oe) {| al a
Post Graduate Girls  
Boys| | |
Senior Girls|  
Boys | |
Junior Girls  
Boys| | |
Sophomore Girls}  
Boys! | |
Freshman Girls  
Boys| | |
 Total  Girls] |

|
I

  REPGRT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TABLE V. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Course Boys Girls Total
College Preparatory ............. .
Technical Lace ect      
Commercial ..........c. es  
| General ........ cc      e  
Total .... cc     ce  
TABLE VI. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS ENTERING SEPTEMBER,  .
Boys Girls Total |
From Highland School................ 
) From Joseph Metcalf School..........  
From Lawrence School............ee  
From Morgan School ...........+e  
From West Street School........... 
Others entering ..........ee        
Total ... cc eete    
TABLE VII ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—DISTRIBUTION BY
GRADES DECEMBER .
Spe- :

Schools Kgtn. Il III IV cial VI VII VIII IX Total
East Dwight St... .. ..  we  .) 
. Elm St. .. .. .. ..  
Elmwood  .. .. ww we we ee) 
Ewingville ne ne ew  
Hamilton St. ..  ... .. 
Highland ($ECésd'sAE (“   
Ingleside  .. ..  ..  
Joseph Metcalf... .. TH  
Kirtland  ..  ils oe  
Lawrence weeneee 
Morgan oe 
Nonotuck St. .. ..  ... ww lL.)  
Park St. ..  ..  wk ueee)  
Sargeant St.  BB OAD BY, BE wk wk ww  
So. Chestnut St. .. ..  ..  ...)  
Springdale ..  ..  
West St.  
West Holyoke ..  ., 
Wilham Whiting .. ... ..  
Total  

®
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCiO LS  
TABLE VIII. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—NUMBER OF
PUPILS GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Boys Girls Total
Highland School .......... eccs  
poseph Metcalf School ...............  
awrence School ........ . ecs  .
Morgan School .......... ees  
West Street School .............    
Total  ...      cence  .
TABLE IX. NUMBER OF PUPILS IN GRADE  X, AND AVERAGE AGE, SEPTEMBER,  .
Boys Girls Total Average Age
Highland School ............ yrs. mos.
poseph Metcalf School ....... yrs. mos.
awrence School ............ yrs.
Morgan School .............-.  yrs. mos.
West Street School .......... yrs. mos.
West Holyoke School ....... yrs. mo.
Total ........   
TABLE X. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—SIZE OF CLASSES
DECEMBER .
(Kindergartens not included.)
Classes of
Classes of Two or Total Total
Single Grades more Grades pupils or less............ to pupils inclusive.....  
More than pupils.........  
Total ........... --  
TABLE XI. EVENING SCHOOLS—FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER,  |
Number of Average
Teachers Number of Number of Night!
Schools including Pupils Pupils Attend.
Principals Enrolled Belonging ance
High ...........ee-  
Vocational ............:.  
Lawrence .............-.  
Morgan .....c.cs scese  
West Street .............  
William Whiting ........  
Total ..............  

|
®e
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE XII. NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED DECEMBER .
Superintendent of Schools.............    cescs   
Secretary to Superintendent.............c cce  sec   
Clerks co.cc     cc   cenvccecscscts   
Attendance officers ......  ...     ce  sse  
Schoolhouse agent ..........  ecw    ece ectee  
—  
In Day Schools:
Men Women Total
High School (including principal and clerk),  
Vocational School (including director)...... .
Elementary school principals who have assis 
Elementary school principals in charge of
classes (counted under teachers).
Ninth grade teachers ...........  
Eighth grade teachers ........c.cc  
Seventh grade teachers ............   
sixth grade teachers ...........  
Fifth grade teachers ...........       
Fourth grade teachers ..........    
Third grade teachers ............cec s  
Second grade teachers ...........ce  eens  
First grade teachers ............    cc   
Mixed grade teachers (two or more grades
HW) TOOM) ci ssces  
Teachers of special classes.............  
Ungraded school teachers ...............-.  
Kindergarten teachers ....... cc         
Supervisors and special teachers............  
Total number of teachers in day schools..  
In Evening Schools:
High School .......        AI  
Vocational School ............      
Elementary schools ..........c.cc   
Total number of teachers in evening
SCHOOIS .....   t        
Janitors co.cc           ecs  
Matrons  ...     tec eetees  
—  
Total number of persons employed........  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCIIOOLS  
TABLE XIII. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE STATISTICS
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE,  .
fs| wis Se]. |
a vj) ws
‘SE gel Ew Be] Be ioe
. one vas Ee. bo E
om wT vo |S!
SCHOOLS esicwlel gs  BE IEE
SO! g:  av vin Rep fos,
Z S' oF wa| Sa les
Weg rw  us A. |
 :
High ......         ]   |
Vocational ...........--  ]
East Dwight Se  |
Elm St. .....cc ee      ]
Elmwood .........-.++ ++++-]   
Ewingville ..............+ --{   ;
Hamilton St. ...............+|  |
Highland ............-ee   |
Ingleside ............e.-ee++-|  |
poseph Metcalf ..............]  }
irtland ...........ee-ee ---{  ]
Lawrence ............e+   |
Morgan ........-.- +|  ]
Nonotuck St. ...........e e-   
Park St. .......        ]  
Sargeant St. ...... |
South Chestnut St............]  ]
Springdale .................-|  ]
West St. ..........-+- --e-|  ]
West Holyoke ..............{  
Wm. Whiting ...............]  
| es
Evening Schools: er
one
High .......... -.- -| |  EES
Vocational .............-.-.+|   
Lawrence ............-.+----|   
Morgan ....... .cc |  
West St. ..........-{  
Wm. Whiting ...............|   

Tos
THE
t PU
i BLIC SCH
  ak aod YD nN  Pa oOOO
oon OaOnK 
on  a. oo
 NO oOo  at) Ye)
swe th REBESRE SHELTERS aS
cd oD on SSSkESSE LOMO rtd
YN  SEBERTS  IA we OS Yen)
 SESEEERSSSSEES am  .
; oe  aones 
a!  |e:
{x} man  S
AOoesseesTE
pe |)eeac   SSS ES Ss  g
a, |r ym OO HH Dae  ——— a
ao oO HOSexnes  oY
 ON oe ane Sm ie BC Oo  
Oo rt ma aw aso oaGaeus Sa  
\ oy OF CRD om oO  OoOw QO os OF OF SesSSeues BROS S
  an ae Or nN v
Rv SH wo —
EF Nee ga  
'  {wr oe CB)
onion Q|  oF SES  EU
e ad or ss ——  s
hn    Oo ras  cg eeacaseds —|  
wn Ck Rac} egseagenese cages &
kx] no* DO waa rs 
{x} pe os Seesr oO HO -&
 te SSARSSESES en
 {] SSnaae on
— oH er) GO an 
a eve  |
Sic ges agensse  |i
os}  BRensese |ss
mint Sag Bear  Sen fac
A ws ae Ee SPS AE Ds or Mor BS rw 
wD OD OD Sin oe Ba 
s wey OD »ONS ass SHS SAG —— ow
i! co tod oY oF ceuesegaasecses  sdegageacseades  
Oo RES HSM BrFaIsse Ks
i SSSSSERKSER  oe
ne —— Ot oS
| ARN @D oa,
QR! x
Ra! Soe   ef es  wm &
 i" SS ba Ow
ee fat SPELPPLLPLLiPEs  gE
ae bd bd ———
AK. Tt oe
Z, tt || gd ag —| s+
  Peete  
. |i TATE TEEE EEEEETTETE aE
Hi Po  ge
{ go: fos coro: soo tors ss os fos sors o
J boo wy
O   bd 
. re] bl  Te
 “a  et e-{ okDoe kes se 
| Hod bode  
Se! ePey    ae . of
wv "“Q"  . wt
oe bd bd  "Qa, oO ev bd ES
oO SS WZ  an   Ci]
FCCSEES  -& Ld La] ry os
gel ses .w ro an -& oe.  wn
: Sgeleuee IpigifgilZiil ee
| eB) i} nooks  -EEESS  oan oo:  vv  os
  SS Eaes "Ss bd  
Y ssgsc vo  haa} Ss
a IG VERE Sim: Pm g
\ SS gS  [ae] aca  “vu iso)  cles
| GLEE gELUE ne) a,  bd  Nene
gegen See lie  ss eft vo
.  ewe Dyes  in
iD) —/ on bd .
jee ayers sPge ig: aii: |e
a cd BD om en “a Wr  nN a, Ld aH   Oo
iegt PEEEigiies Pig igg   oe
BSG EES EYES Sori oie
 Epes cekeliige-e af ckgee   wo
‘ Sf} On key; an be SEfecisP oe? fed ped iy ec lei gs Te OG os (ER Eas co Hai te SS
EES PEE Ss  
Bss
cE   |e"
eu rogate C's
Fa SOD s
) &.
 
a

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE II. THE HIGH SCHOOL.
Expenditure Numher of

For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ending not including including Number Number

 June Supervisors Principal Enrolled Belonging

 . 

 

  

  

 

*In previous years teachers of manual training and sewing were included as
regular teachers.
TABLE III]. THE NINE GRADES.
Expenditure Number of

For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ending not including including Number Number
June Supervisors Principals Enrolled Belonging

  

 

 

 

 

TABLE IV. THE KINDERGARTENS.

For Year Total Average
Ending Expenditure Number of Number Number
June for Teachers Teachers Enrolled Belonging

  

 

  

 

 

TABLE V. THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
 *
ve? CsReS

. Es  of 

LY wo —ey co oyes aes cs

wou, bY  -s  fs Utes

Loe ES See oz Lois

ase Fie one oe She

  

 

 

 .  

  d

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VI. THE EVENING VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Sol
ov Ogy
ro ss ‘S ro  
oe ge oe  ray ae
Tet Ze Ef BEE Tate
Sine nS Fis Ew  ge tes
    
TABLE VII. THE EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
z .
ge we OS Mz
.  Eu silg
s Lo cv os BeYeS
oe  PE  oe eS FigsE
Lot zo ES SEs  oY eave
ed ZS Zn aes  &sitda
        , 
TABLE VIII. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES IN
HIGH SCHOOL AND GRADES.
F  erie wige oe! Ec
gma pays |S s
a ITTge ied
Dec.,  |  |
|
Dec.,  /  
Dec., /  
Dec.,  /  
Dec., joo or ]  
| |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE IX. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE
EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
oo Dec.  Dec.  Dec. 
po
scHooLs Bs
mE) me ze* WE  a
| |
High ........... -e-]  
Vocational .............|  
Lawrence .........-.+.--|  
Morgan ..............--|  
West St. ..........- ---]  
Wm. Whiting ..........|   
Totals esses  
TABLE X. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE
DAY SCHOOLS.

| Dec.  Dec.  Dec. 

scHooLs I. Beeen ree
Se  se.  be Sze
ae ovc au oc
we ge  
ey OS a
High ............ .+-|    
Vocational ..............  
East Dwight St..........| 
Elm St. ............- --|  
Elmwood ............+.+| 
Ewingville   ce eces  
Hamilton St. ...........|  
Highland ...............| |  
Ingleside ...............  
Joseph Metcalf .........|   
irtland ..............-|  
Lawrence ...............|  
Morgan .............-.--|  
Nonotuck St. ...........]  
Park St. ...............| |  
Sargeant St. ............]    
So. Chestnut St. ........|  
Springdale ............./  
West St. ...............]  
West Holyoke’..........|  {| 
Wm. Whiting ..........|  
—motats .............}  eezo ase ese
Totals er seces  

|

  REPORT OF THE PUBL:C SCHITOVLS
TABLE XI. AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUPILS PER TEACHER
IN THE GRADES BASED UPON AVERAGE NUMBER
BELONGING FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER.
 
Average number of pupils per teacher, including all principals....................  
Average number of pupils per teacher not
including principals who have assistants,  
UNDER (E) MISCELLANEOUS.
TABLE I. RESIGNATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS—DAY
SCHOOL TEACHERS.
Resignations.
Arnold Grover Agnes FE. Rohan
Mrs. Theodora A. Hooker Gorden E. Toby
. Thomas J. McCoy Teresa V. Tucker
Appointments. .
Louis K. Appel Bride C. Herbert |
Hazel M. Buckey Anna G. Kane
Grace G. Callahan Teresa C. Mackey
Charles E. Dawson E. Margaret McHugh
Harold Gammans Cora E. McKillop
William F. Grady Katherine M. O’Donnell
Robert E. Hamill Alden T. Stubbs
Helen F. Thompson
Leave of Absence.
Mary J. Brainard susan M. Mayo
Nora E. Doyle Ellen M. Wellington '
TABLE II. RATES OF TUITION FOR NON-RESIDENT
| PUPILS.
High School .......  c  per year
Elementary Schools ................-.---- per year
Day Vocational School .'..................- per year
Evening Vocational School ................ per year
Payable half-vearly in advance.
Evening High School—determined by the Committee.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE III. SCHOOL CHILDREN’S AID FUND.

' The following table shows the yearly Thanksgiving offering of the children of the public schools. The money is
spent for clothing for needy children:

Year Amount Year Amount
   
 .   
 
‘ Total to date 
TABLE IV. VALUE OF ART AND SCIENCE COLLECTIONS.
Number of
Volumes in
Reference

Schools Art Science Library
High ..............  
East Dwight Street .......  
Elm Street ..............  
Elmwood ...............  
Ewingville ...............  
Hamilton Street ..........  
Highland ................  
Ingleside ..............  
Joseph Metcalf ..........  
Kirtland .................  
Lawrence ..............--  
Morgan ............e  
Nonotuck Street ..........  
South Chestnut Street ....  
Springdale ..............  
West Street ..............  
West Holvoke ............  
William Whiting .........  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
ee :
IN MEMORIAM.
| NELLIE A. LYNCH.
Appointed teacher in the Holyoke Public Schools
| September  st,  .
Died April  th,  .
Resolutions Adopted by the School Committee.
WHEREAS it has pleased Almighty God to recall to Himself our
most worthy friend and fellow-worker,
NELLIE A. LYNCH,
and
WHEREAS we members of the Holyoke School Committee feel
deep sorrow for the loss of so true woman and so devoted teacher ;
be it
RESOLVED that, as tribute of love and appreciation, we give
this recognition of her splendid character and her loyal service, and
this testimony to our belief that she gave the last full measure of
devotion in the interests of the children she loved; and be it further
RESOLVED that this expression of our grief be written in our
records, made known to the family of the deceased, and placed on
printed page. ,
JOHN F. KENNEDY,
JOHN J. O'CONNOR,
MAURICE G. DONAHUE,
Committee on Resolutions.
a

PART V. |
REPORT OF ATTENDANCE OFFICERS
To the School Board of Holyoke:

The report of the attendance officers for the school year
ending June is herewith submitted. It is the fortieth
annual report of this department.

The Committee on Attendance, Census and Truancy appointed twenty-nine men to take the school census. This was
six more than the number used in the previous year. We
would recommend the engaging of but fourteen enumerators for the next census.

The total number of children over five and under sixteen
years of age was  that is, more than the number
reported in  This is not real gain because the age limit
has been raised from fifteen to sixteen. The census was taken
rapidly, and with little confusion, considering the fact that
a new card system was introduced by the State Board of
Education. This new system caused an entire change in the
method of taking the census. It is more elaborate and satisfying and leaves less room for error. It will prove of great
value to the department in the future as permanent record.

The attendance and the child labor laws have been enforced in strict but reasonable manner. The business depression under which the country has labored for the past
year or more has made its influence felt on the school attendance in certain sections of our city.

Once more we wish to thank the emplovers for their efforts to conform to the child labor laws.

From September  to June there were
ten summonses served for cases of truancy. There were but
two boys committed to the Training School in Springfield,

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
while the other eight bovs were placed on probation by order
of the court.: Later they were discharged as were the other
two boys whose cases had been carried over from the previous
year. At this time six boys from this city are at the Hamp- !
den County Training School.

The attendance officers present below schedule of visits
which they make to the various public and private schools of
the city in the performance of their duties. In connection
with his work as schoolhouse agent, Mr. Edouard Cadieux
devotes part of his time to the schools indicated.

SCHEDULE OF VISITS.
Thomas E. Gallagher.

School Visit School Visit
West Street ..........Every day St. Jerome ...........FEvery day
E. Dwight Street......Every day Notre Dame .........Every day
Holy Rosary .........Every day Perpetual Help .......Every day
Im. Conception .......Every day Highland ...........:.Upon call
Ewingville ............-Upon call Nonotuck St. .........Upon call

Thomas H. Finn.

School Visit School Visit
Precious Blood .......Every day Metcalf ...............Upon call
Park Street ..........Every day Elmwood .............Upon call
Hamilton St. ......... Every day Springdale ............Upon call
Sargeant St. .........Every day Ingleside ..............Upon call
Morgan ..............Every day High os tes s.- Upon call
Sacred Heart ......Twice week Vocational ........Twice week

Edouard Cadieux (part time).

, School Visit School Visit
Elm St. ..............Every day Mater Dolorosa.... Twice week
Whiting ..............Fvery day So. Chestnut St.......Every day
Lawrence ............-Every day Kirtland ..........Twice week

The West Holyoke School is visited upon special call.

Schools marked “Upon call” must be visited once week, and
additionally as often as the principal requests.

The first four tables which follow give figures relating
to school census, children seven to fourteen years of age, and
the school population in September,  .

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE I. SCHOOL CENSUS.
Wards Totals
Sept. ........  
Sept., ........  
Net gain in over  .......           
TABLE II. ANALYSIS OF SCHOOL CENSUS.
B- 
Wards Boys Girls Boys Girls Boys Girls Boys’ Girls Totals
 ,     ot  
Subtotals,    
Totals  

TABLE III. CHILDREN WITHIN COMPULSORY SCHOOL

ATTENDANCE AGE—  TO  .

Wards Total
Sept, Boys  
Girls  
Totals  
Number of boys and girls seven to fourteen years of age..  

TABLE IV. SCHOOL POPULATION  .
Pupils attending public schools ......... 
Pupils attending St. Jerome School..............  
Pupils attending Precious Blood School.......................  
Pupils attending Sacred Heart School................c   eens  
Pupils attending Perpetual Help School.......................  
Pupils attending Holy Rosary School...............      
Pupils attending Immaculate Conception School...............  
Pupils attending Mater Dolorosa School............  ...  
Pupils attending Mt. St. Vincent School...............c     
Pupils attending Holy Family Institute................    
Pupils attending other private schools..............ces  
Total school population of the city September,  ........  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE V. ABSENTEES REPORTED.
oo SS jf  E,
aS RRR Fi.
Schools Sf) bo wig 
a.  S. &@ E& &
) a:  Se  
al
St. Jerome ...............|   
West St. cc... cc  |  iy 
Holy Rosary ............-|   
East Dwight St. ........../  {/  
Perpetual Help cir O|    
Immaculate Conception   
Nonotuck St. .......... 
Highland ............ |
Ewingville ............   
Precious Blood petted  Park St. ce         OT   
Hamilton St. ............./  
Sargeant St. ..............]   .
Morgan ....... ] Hy 
Sacred Heart .............]  
Springdale ............ -{  
Joseph Metcalf ...........] S|  
Elmwood ........ .. 
Ingleside wo... ..  ...  |
Vocational .......... 
Holyoke High ............  
Elm St. .......... .. -.--]   ia  
Wm. Whiting ............]   
Mater Dolorosa ..........|  
Lawrence .................-|   
South Chestnut St. .......]   
Kirtland ........... ce    
West Holyoke ............ |
Mt. St. Vincent .......... |
Holy Family Institute ..... a
Totals ....       na ao saslasg
ES eS        Oe se

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE VI. PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
Be glBig/s)s a)  !
DRiani al A; Al al al alalsl!a”
Sn Oe Oe Oe
Schools el if sie
 Kl ss aa
SS Ss sig gizisié
|
St. Jerome ...............]   
West St. ....... |  
Holy Rosary   ecc |  FT|  
East Dwight St............|  
Perpetual Help ...........}   
Im. Conception .........../  
Nonotuck St. .........ee-. 
Highland ............ee Ewingville ............  
Precious Blood ...........|  
Park St. .........e..  
Hamilton St. .............|  
Sargeant St. .............]  
Morgan we eccres|  
Sacred Heart ...........-| ],  
Springdale .............+.-|  
Joseph Metcalf ...........]  
Elmwood ........es  
Ingleside ..........cc 
Vocational ........   
Holyoke High ............  
Elm St. ............ ---|  
Wm. Whiting ............|  
Mater Dolorosa ..........|  
Lawrence ..............-+-|  
South Chestnut St. ........]  
Kirtland ......... ecs |/ 
West Holyoke ............
Mt. St. Vincent ........... |
Holy Family Institute ..... |
Totals ........cuc , |]ae a

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VII. ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
\ /Sie(ei/zizlziFiai 
Sl ali alialaiala; Siala
re tom! tom ro Som! rm ot re rm re —
Schools i; ie a
alo) s|/ eg)  S/  sie
| BIO Zia Sinls isi 
St. Jerome ...............|  
West St. ....... -] 
Holy Rosary ..........e:.  
East Dwight St. ..........]   
Perpetual Help ...........] 
Im. Conception ........... ats 
Nonotuck St. ............. 
Highland .............. .Ewingville ............. .
Precious Blood ...........] 
Park St. ......... ... -|  
Hamilton St. .............
Sargeant St. ..........  
Morgan .............-.---|  
Sacred Heart ............. 
Springdale ............ |
Joseph Metcalf ...........  
Elmwood ........e. - |
Ingleside ............. |
Vocational ...........   |
Holyoke High ............ |
Flm St. ......c..     a|  
Wm. Whiting ............./ I}   
Mater Dolorosa aanennea  
Lawrence ................-]   
South Chestnut St. ......../  
Kirtland ............... ..  
West Holyoke ............
Mt. St. Vincent ........... |
Holy Family Institute ..... |
| |
Totals Sr sre es]   

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE VIII. TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
;oO eo Hi re)
  ee] SU LIBIE
es os ow Sw] fe  
. -| Fs|Sa FR FS
Schools Gomes ctl ck
PTEl Ei aeegha
  fs go /g| 
fairey y
St. Jerome .........c -   
West St. ...... es  
Holy Rosary ............-|  
East Dwight St. .........]  
Perpetual Help ..........] 
Im. Conceptién ..........  
Nonotuck St. ............  
Highland ........... Ewingville ........... .
“Precious Blood ..........  
Park St. .....        
- Hamilton St. ...........-  
Sargeant St. .......... --  
Morgan .....ec s|  
Sacred Heart ..........  
Springdale .........e. Joseph Metcalf ..........  
Elmwood .......cs
Ingleside ..........c 
Vocational ........... Holyoke High ...........
Elm St. ....... | 
Wm. Whiting ............  
Mater Dolorosa .........|  
Lawrence ..........e.ee-+-|  
So. Chestnut St. .........  
Kirtland .........c      
West Holyoke ...........
Mt. St. Vincent ..........
Holy Family Institute .... |
Totals sosseseetten |  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE IX. RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE STREETS.
a/ ) !
fo) AliAl ali rn aia o
 pa  en oe
Schools -| clos  
$/ we] &; &
SBA Belgie al
St. Jerome ........../  
West St. ............|  
Holy Rosary ........  
East Dwight St...... 
Perpetual Help ......}  
Im. Conception ......  
Precious Blood ......]  
Park St. ............]  
Hamilton St. ......../  
Sargeant St. ........./  
Morgan .............  nl  
Sacred Heart ........  
Elm Street ..........|  
Wm. Whiting ......./  
, Mater Dolorosa .....  
Lawrence ............|  
a RN OO
Totals coscen|ar]an]ae[o[a[s |e |e]  
TABLE X. AGGREGATES.
- ss glo of
wi fo}  
fz cig|eei gs fe) BL OE  
SS OSt #S  af S&S cs
Zs |/  eg €f' @
oe Z| “s a. ES “e
op Rg MR ge
ee
 
Sept.,  |
Oct.,  |* |
Nov., 
Dec.,  |
Jan.,  |
Feb., 
March, 
April, 
May.  ,
June,  |
Totals. | |

REPORT. OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE XI. AGE AND SCHOOLING CERTIFICATES ISSUED.
, 
a &§ EF FP Bw SE
  zA S&B fs Fe
Boys. :
  to  ...   to  ...   to  ...  to ... YT  
Totals ....  
Girls.
  to  ...   to ... Fs) to  ... vi to ...  
Totals ....  
This table dates from September,  to September,  .
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS E. GALLAGHER,
THOMAS H. FINN,
Attendance Officers.
\

ORGANIZATION—JANUARY,  
DAY SCHOOLS.
 
” ese! es wt
School Teachers Fa Cee gee
q 
m Pa
High:
Howard Conant, Prin. ...........]| 
Arthur J. McDonald .............]  
Lillian W. Fay ..........ec +-}]  
Mary Adele Allen ...............]  
A. Esther Barry ..............+-.-]  
Alice C. Brown .......cce   
Russell C. Brown ............+. +-{  
Hazel M. Buckey .............  
Rufus W. Clement ..............]  
Jason O. Cook .......-c s|  
Helen B. Cronin .......... e-  
Margaret T. Delaney ............|  
Margaret FE. Dixon ............-.] .
Jason T. Draper ............+-.--|  
Clyde B. Edgeworth .............{  
Harold W. Gammans ...........-.|  
Annie Louise Gilligan ...........-]  
George D. Hearn ...............-|  
A. Omer Hebert ...........+ ++ -] |
Clara M. Ingraham ..............|  
Mabel L. Judd ...................|  
Edwin J. Keough ..........+..-..}  
Anna Marie Laporte ............-{  
Eileen McCormick (Sub.) ........ |
Sarah H. McGrath ..........  ,
Howard Mitchell ..............--|  
Bertha Morgan ........e.   
Murtach M. S. Moriartv .........]  
Charlotte A. Norris ..........---{|  
Margaret M. Powers ............|  
Mary F. Riley ............  )
Madeline L. Slade ............ 
Lena W. Slotnick ............  
Amelia M. Stapleton .............]  
Harry D. Wilcox .............. ]) |
Ida A. St. Martin, Clerk..........  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
r oO wv xe oO,  ‘
School Teachers re ae  ae cg
r#   [Ces
pae| §&  [s
| |
Vocational: |
William H. Whitney, Director....|  
Eric G. Johnson ...........-..---]| |
Edwin C. Knapp ..........+.+. -+|  
William F. Grady ............+- +|  
Alden T. Stubbs .............-.--]  
Charles E. Dawson ............ |
East Dwight St.: |
Mary E. Hussey, Prin. ...........|  
Della Flynn ................V]  
Agnes C. Dowdall .............V  
Claire E. O’Neill .............. V}  
Antoinette E. Charest ........-III]|  
Abbe G. Sullivan ..............d 
Cora E. McKillop ..............-I{ 
Elm St.:
Mary E. Lawley, Prin. ...........|  
Mary M. Doyle ...............-VI| 
Nora E. Doyle ..............V-VI  
A. Belle Smith ................V  
Agnes G. O’Connor ...........  
Estelle M. Curley ............. V{}   
Helen F. Greaney ............III  
E. Teresa McIntee ............H]   
Carrie L. Alderman ............  
Mary V. Herbert ............ -Il  
Emma M. Wilson .............--  
Katherine S. Keough ............ 
Caroline E. Meacham .......Kgtn. |]  
Elizabeth C. Burke .........Kgtn.[  
Elmwood: |
Annie L. Stansfield, Prin. ........ :
Ruth L. Porterfield ...........  
Lena I. Spamer ............... V}  
Lillian M. Chapman ...........III  
Emma B. Ingraham ...........III   
Katherine T. Chapin ..........]] ]|  
Margaret A. McHugh ..........II  
Elizabeth M. Foley ............ 
Edith M. Bartlett ..............  
Anna M. Kidnay ................ 
Elizabeth A. Howard ...........I/|  
Julia R. Sheehan ............... 
Ida M. Ingraham ...........Kgtn.  
Jane R. Canavan ...........Kgtn.| |
Ewingville: |
Mary A. Lynn. Prin. ..........  Helena A. Shine ................ 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
 or oe s
a. ou Orn wo os
School Teachers  cs EEO Eg
&Oo GES  lsh
a |)  Ig
eS
|
Hamilton St.: |
Jennie E. Scolley, Prin. ..........] |
Katherine R. Warren .........-VI  
Hannah V. O’Brien ...........VI  
Ellen A. Kirkpatrick ...........V{  
Grace G. Callahan .............V]  
Lillian M. Grant .............. V]  
Ellen M. Ahern ..............III   
Elizabeth M. Feeney ..........II]I/  
Helen H. Ramage .............I]  
Alice G. Collopy ..............II]   
Katherine C. Scolley ...........   
Nora G. Linehan ............... 
Eleanor P. O’Grady .........Kgtn.| 
. Evelyn Curley .............Kgtn.| |
Highland: |
John A. Callahan, Prin. ......... |
Katherine G. Shine ........... X]  
Mary T. O’Donnell ...........I X| [|  
Catherine A. Callahan ....... VIII  
Ella L. Smith ..............VIII  
Lucy B. Ramage ............ VIII  
Mary E. Dooley .............. VII  
Katherine C. Shea (Sub.) ....VII  
Florence E. Redington .......VII  
Jennie A. EF. Curley ...........VI 
Mary C. Shine ................V| 
M. Gertrude Moriarty ......... V} 
Sara W. Brennan ............III  
Katherine G. Sears ...........-Il  
Clara L. O’Connor (Sub.) ...Asst.
‘ J. Reeve Lynn ...............-..  
Grace W. Davis ............+ 
Mary H. Batchelder ........Kgtn.  
A. Charlotte Leavitt ........Kgtn. .
Ingleside:
B. Frances Donahue, Prin. .......
V-VI-VII   
Agnes J. Donoghue ........III-IV  
Katherine C. Flood ..........I-II  
Joseph Metcalf: |
Michael J. Greaney, Prin. ........| |
Mary D. Greeley ..............  
Mary V. Casey Bd VT  
M. Clara Cleveland .........VIII  
Katherine R. Burke ........ ai  
Alice H. Griffis .............. VII  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
n rs  vo an
School Teachers fee gy  ES SER CEs
| g
|
Elsie M. Wing ..............-VWII|  
Alice M. Donoghue .......... VII  
Eva C. Moynihan .............VI 
Anna M. Dalton ..............VI 
Grace L. Heinritz .............VI 
Alice A. Moss ............ -V   
Mary T. Canavan cutie y|  
Kirtland: |
Katharine A. Mahoney, Prin. .....| |
Annie E. Gaynor ........VII-VIII  
Claire E. Nugent .............V 
Margaret M. Bradley Ey  
Agnes G. Scully .............. Y 
Elizabeth J. Markham ........III  
M. Georgie Eaton ..............  #+| 
Margaret G. Connor ............I  
Nellie A. Perry ............Kgtn.|  
Leila Osborne ..............Kgtn.| |
Lawrence:
J. Harry Kennedy, Prin. .........| |
Mary E. McManus ............IN  
Mary C. McTigue ............. XN  
Josephine McDonnell ..........  
Janet L. Somers ............. VIII  
Mabel FE. Waters ............ VIII  
Elizabeth A. Arnold ......... VIII  
Emma G. Scolley ............. VII  
Rose G. O'Neill .............. VII |]  
Jennie B. Cassidy ............VII   
Isabel Stokes ............... +-WI  
Delia A. Moriarty ..............W|   
Morgan: |
William E. Judd, Prin. .........../  
Agnes M. Kelliher .............  
Ellen C. Pratt .................-I M|  
Clara H. Buckley ........... VIII 
Mary A. Donoghue ..........VIII}  
Lillian W. Murphy ...........VII |]  
Rose M. Donovan ............ VII  
Katherine G. Gilligan ........VII 
Marte H. Fckart .............. VI  
Bertha J. Moody ..............VI  
Margaret G. Haley .............V  
Anne Halfpenny ...............V!}  
Mabel C. Teahan ..............IV]}  
Agnes C. Flood ..............-  
Harriet B. Grant .............. III  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ,
- be  
c UO: Pony
School Teachers ae te  
-  per rey
A ag iss"
|
Mary A. Donoghue ............II  
Josie E. Healy ..............----  
Nonotuck St.:
Mrs. Sara E. Wilcoxen, Prin. .....| |
Theresa L. Coffey ............. VI] /|  
Mary L. Teahan ............V-VI  
Emma M. Swindt ..............V|  
Rose P. Whitney .............- V|  
Mary A. Lynch ............III-IV  
- Katherine E. Shea ...........-III}  
Annie N. Miller ................I 
Katherine T. Morris ..........I-II  
Elizabeth M. Dalton .............I   
Park St.: ;
Emily L. Curran, Prin. ...........|  
Annie F. Downing ............ V| |}  
Ella G. Prouty ................ V|  
Katherine M. Kennelly ........III 
Teresa L. Dowd ..............III| 
Katherine M. McCarthy ........II 
Margaret I. Corrigan ......... sii  
Katherine G. Coughlin ..........I  
Anna M. Warren pin perro |!  
Sargeant St.:
Katherine M. Holmes, Prin. ......|  
Elizabeth M. Bigelow ..........V  
M. Ethel McTearnen .......... V|  
Katherine E. Browne .........III  
Catherine C. Curran ...........II   
Alice M. Cleary ............---e 
Elizabeth Cowie .............--e 
Catherine E. Paul ..........Kgtn.] 
Flora H. Dougherty ........Kgtn.  
‘So. Chestnut St.:
Elizabeth M. O’Neill, Prin. .......)  
Louise F. Heinritz ............VI  
Josephine Gorman ..............V|  
Anna B. Fitzgerald ............  
Anna G. Kane ............-II-IV  
Mary C. Murphy ..............III]   
Theresa Conway ........+--++-- ]|  
Ella M. Shea ..................  
Elizabeth A. Chapin ............I  
Catherine E. Scully ............. 
Ada G. Ingraham ..........Kgtn.|  
Helen V. Connor ...........Kgtn.| |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  googie, les
School Teachers Fa FE:Be ha
  Boe Bs  )
w Pst  pS Ay
| |
Springdale:
Agnes C. Kelly, Prin. ............]  
Mary E. Casey .........VII-VIII|  
Annie F. Sheehan .............VI   
Margaret E. Ryan .............V  
Grace A. O'Neill .............. V|  
Rose G. Herlihy ..............III   
Teresa C. Mackey ..............II] {|  
Bride C. Herbert ...............I  
Frances M. Gilday ..........Kgtn.  
Elizabeth M. Shine .........Kgtn.| |
West St.:
John J; Lynch, Prin. .............]  
ary L. Bowler ....s......... X|  
Lillian E. Kelly .............VIII|  
Abbie L. Lynch ..............WII}  
Mrs. Joanna R. McMahon .....VI   —
Catherine G. Nutley ...........VI} 
Ellen K. McCarthy ............V| 
Audry V. Delaney ............. V|   .
Margaret G. Riley ............ V|   
Anna J. Moynihan ............III  
Flla M. Payne ...............-III/  
Sarah E. Hayward ............II   
Josie A. Moriarty ..............II  
Katherine E. Leary .............  
Laura G. Connor ...............I|  
Mary H. Power ............Kgtn. 
Pearl S. Rand ..............Kgtn.|  
Anna C. Falvey (Sub.)....Special  
West Holyoke:
Matthew S. Herbert .........I-IX|  
William Whiting: |
Esther M. Greeley, Prin. .........]  
Anna M. Casey .............. VII  
Septa F. Lynn ................WI]|  
Ellen M. Doyle ................W} 
Johanna V. Leahy ............IV| 
Eva C. Greaney ...........III-IV|  
Katherine A. O’Neill ..........III| 
Eleanor E. Lyons .............II]| 
Ella I. Healy .................-lI]| 
Katherine M. O’Donnell ........I|  
Mary C. Daly ...............--- 
Mrs. Katherine Dillon ...........I}   
Kathryn U. Lynch ..........Kgtn.|  
Grace A. Sullivan ...........Kgtn.| |

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS. ,
Manual Training: Salary
Chester B. Clark  ... ..     ecvesce 
Robert E. Hamill ......  ...     ce  cc csss  
Helen G. Burke .........   cc    cc   ccnees  
E. Margaret McHugh ............ cc     cecces  
Household Arts:
Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins, Supervisor....................  
Rose C. Lynes  ...          eesec  
Ruth Canavan .......        en cus  
Drawing:
Mrs. Isabelle H. Ferry, Supervisor ........... .   
Mrs. Rose A. Dougherty ..........  .   ec  ec  
Grace D. Lynn ......     cect ec ec teteceveces  
Writing:
Esther A. McDonnell .......  ...     ce    
Music: 
Hugh Craig, Supervisor ......... e evecscescecse  
Margaret F. McCarthy ..........    ence eter      
Harvey F. Morrill, Director of Orchestra, each rehearsal..  
Health and Physical Education:
Daniel J. Kelly, High School............  ...    
Louis K. Appel, Grades ..........     ers  
Helen F. Thompson, High School ................     
OFFICE.
Supt. of Schools Francis McSherry .........e+ee+see++ 
, Sec. to Superintendent Mary J. Callahan ....................  
Clerks Agnes M. Cadieux ..........e    
Frances L. Callahan ............  
Attendance Officers Thomas E. Gallagher ................  
Thomas H. Finn ................ --  
Schoolhouse Agent Edouard Cadieux ............... --.  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS 
EVENING SCHOOLS.
  ‘Se
m. vu. of ot
School Teachers DE FER  a
aig EE LoS
ee 
High: |
Patrick J. Garvey, Prin. ..........|   
Oliver H. Bourque ...........--+-| |
Lawrence F. Forward ............|  
Clyde B. Edgeworth ...........+ .| |
Marv E. Cleary ........... -|  
Katherine Gear ...........ee +.| |
Hazel M. Buckey ...............+| |
Rosa Killigrew ............  --|  
Margaret Sullivan ................]  
Agnes M. Dunn ..............-++.|  
Russell C. Brown .........- -]  
Timothy Moriarty ...........e +|  
Edwin J. Keough ......... .. .. [
Dr. J. de la Neuville .............]  
Harold W. Gammans ............] |
A. Omer Hebert .............  
Chester B. Park .................-] |
Frank H. McTigue ...............] |
Grace D. Lynn ............+.. -| |
Vocational:
William H. Whitney, Director.....  
Edwin C. Knapp ............+..+.|  
Alden T. Stubbs ............. |
Eric G. Johnson ..........- +|  
Charles E. Dawson ........... |
Harry Bailey ..............e  
William Wylie ............ e] |
William F. Grady ................|  
John F. Shea ....................| |
Henry Meredith .............. |
Thomas Batzel ...............+ -| |
Thomas F. Gibbons ..............-] |
Frank M. O’Neill .....:.........-| |
Charles W. Rieser ..............--| |
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Supervisor Practical Arts Classes .....| |
Mrs. Charles E. Thunert .........] |
Alice Fenton .........  ] |
Mrs. Alice Davis ................| |
Florence Barber .......se..+..----|  
Helen I. Taylor ............-.+. -| |
Mrs. Ellen O’Connell .............| |
Mrs. Kate Grout .................] |
Mrs. Gina de Leon ...............| |
Blanche McCollister ..............| |

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
 bo wo os
. Yn  oi  
. School Teachers ae Meg cs ts
eo SFE,  VE
go los EEF  
| |
Lawrence: |
Wilham Ei. Judd, Prin. ...........)  
Tallian W. Murphy ...............] |
Bernice Mahoney ............. |
Margaret G. Riley criti |
Ethe Hayton co.cc... ce     ] |
Lula MPa |
James Meikleham ................] |
Johanna V. Leahy ................/ |
Anna M. Haley ................-./  
Abbe G. Sullivan pretties |
Claire Murphy ..................-{  
Morgan:
Michael J. Greaney, Prin. ........!  
Hazel C. Walsh .............. ...] |
Fva C. Moynihan ............ +.-] |
Pearl Scully .............  
Ilora Grandchamp ..............-/ |
Eleanor E. Lyons   |
Margaret Bradley ................]  
Margaret Hogan ................./  
Anna McHugh ...............+ -{ |
Mary Gorman ..........e -|  
E. Teresa McIntee ............ -]  
Anna Leary .......cecc   ee]  
Dorothy Dunn ................ ..|  
Rose McNaught .............-  
Mary V. Herbert ...............+|  
Clara L. O’Connor ..............-|  
Anna Falvey ..........  ee ee]  
Louise M. Kennedy ..............{  
Fvelyn E. Connor ................/  
Ellen M. Coughlin ................] |
Agnes M. Cadieux .........se -]  
Teresa Fenton .......     ewes |
West St.:
Arthur J. McDonald, Prin. .......|  
Anna I, Cleary .......... --]  
Harry D. Wilcox .............  
Bridget C. Shea ............ -]  
Marion Potvin ..........  -]  
Julia Collopy .............. -]  
Anna M. Gear ...........  }  
Alice Griffis ..........    |)  
Mary L. Herbert ........... |
M. Agnes Moynihan ............../  
Rose P. Whitney ............. --.-{  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  oe gl gk lee
a Ls ae 
School Teachers re  mE S
ex aye “SE Ss
S is  s
| |
Marion Bradshaw ............ --+{ |
Sara McCarthy ...........-| |
Isabelle O'Connor .........  -] |
William Whiting: |
J. Harry Kennedy, Prin. ]  
Anna M. Casey ....... ] |
Mary J. O'Connell ...............{ |
Mrs. Mary Zielinski ..............| |
Marv G. Conway ...........e  
Winifred Glasheen ...............] |
Mary Hogan ilivan |
Katherine C. Sullivan ............] |
Mrs. Katherine Dillon ............| |
Elizabeth B. Donahue ............|  
Margaret G. Connor ..............{  
Mrs. Albert Hatch ...............{  
Helen Clifford .......... !  
Irene Carroll pcrtetersesrssees|  
Agnes Kidnay ........... -e -|  
e

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
JANITORS AND MATRONS.

Schools Salaries

High Fred P. Brown .............e ++ 

} Edward Rourke ..........cec s  

William J. Morrison .........-e.e    

Daniel J. Kennedy, I'ireman..........  

John Kennedy, Helper ...............  

Mrs. Mary Moynahan, Matron........  

Gymnasium Edouard Samson ...........c    

Vocational James F. Walsh ...........     

East Dwight St. William A. Moore ............   

Elm St. Liwellyn J. Lannon ...............  

Ewingville Bartholomew F. Griffin ..............  

Hamilton St. Frank J. Schirch ............. cere  

Highland John Ahern .............   

Ingleside Michael J. Moriarty ............+ --  

Joseph Metcalf Edward W. Bresnahan ..............  

Kirtland Jeremiah F. Leary .............-.  

Lawrence John M. Hanley ................  

Morgan Charles R. Moreau ..................  

Nonotuck St. Thomas O’Connor .......... .c   

Park St. James Walsh ..........      

Sargeant St. Cornelius J. Donoghue ...............  

South Chestnut St. James Gilhooley ...........cce     
Springdale Joseph A. Gadbois ............   ;

West St. John J. Moriarty ....................  

West Holyoke Annie Keyes .........  cence  

William Whiting Patrick F. Lynch ...............     

Mrs. Bridget T. Clifford, Matron.....  

Summer Work.....  

Spare Janitors James Gage ....       eens  

Venatius J. Fleming ...............  

Office Building William B. Rogers .............    

PART VII.
AUTHORIZED TEXT BOOKS
The following lists comprise all text books adopted by
the School Committee for use in the various schools, and on
the list February :
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. .
GRADE I.
Beginner’s Primer
Sunbonnet Babies’ Primer
. Wide Awake Primer
Rose Primer "
Cyr Primer
Cyr First Reader
Child Life Primer
Child Life First Reader
Aldine Primer
Aldine First Reader and Manual
Art Literature Primer
Art Literature Book One
Baker Carpenter Primer
Baker Carpenter First Year Language Reader
Stepping Stones to Literature First Reader
New Education Book One
Baldwin First Year Reader
Silver-Burdett First Book
Jones’ Reader by Grades Book One
Action, Imitation and Fun Series:
The Little Red Hen
The Three Pigs
The Three Bears ,
Three Little Kittens—Chicken Little
Red Riding Hood—The Seven Kids
Bow-Wow and Mew-Mew
Puss in Boots—Reynard the Fox ,

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
. Jack the Giant-Killer |
Hop o’ My Thumb—Tom Thumb
Jack and the Bean Stalk and Other Tales
Durell’s Arithmetie Book One, Part I, with notes for teachers. (For teacher's use only.)
GRADE Il.
Aldine Second Reader
Cyr Second Reader
Child Life Second Reader
Stepping Stones to Literature Second Reader
New Education Book Two
Baldwin Second Year Reader
Silver-Burdett Second Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades Book Two
Baker Carpenter Second Year Language Reader
Art Literature Book Two .
Scudder’s Fables and Folk Stories
Peckwith’s In Mythland, Vol. I
Baldwin’s Robinson Crusoe
Smith’s Eskimo Stories
Carroll’s Around the World Book One
Durell’s Arithmetie Book One, Part I, with notes for teacher.
(For teacher's use only.)
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Two
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book IIL
GRADE IL.
Williams Choiee Literature
New Education Book Three
Baldwin Third Year Reader
Sulver-Burdett Third Book
Jones’ Readers by Grades Book Three
Art Literature Rook Three
Baker Carpenter Third Year Language Reader
Baldwin's Old Greek Stories
Longfellow ’s Selections
Andrew's Seven Little Sisters /
Shaw’s Big People and Little People of Other Lands
Pratt's Stories of Colonial Children
Wilson’s History Reader for Elementary Schools
Rafter’s City and Town

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

Aldine First Language Book and Manual oe
Durell’s Arithmetic Book One, Part II
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Three
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book III
American Musie Reader I

GRADE IV.
Williams Choice Literature
New Edueation Book Four
Baldwin Fourth Year Reader
Art Literature Book Four
Jones’ Readers by Grades Book Four
Baker Carpenter Fourth Year Language Reader
Whittier’s Selections
Longfellow’s Selections
Eggleston’s Stories of Great Americans
Andrews’ Each and All
Hawthorne’s Daffv-Down-Dilly
Legends of the Red Children
Carroll’s Around the World Book Two
Frve’s Brooks and Brook Basins
Long’s Ways of Wood Folks
Tappan’s American Hero Stories
Reed Word Lessons
Aldine First Language Book and Manual
Durell’s Arithmetic Book One, Part II
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetie Book Four
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography First Book Part One
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book V
American Music Reader IT
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary

GRADE V.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Fifth Year Reader
Art Literature Book Five
Jones’ Readers by Grades Book Five
Baker Carpenter Fifth Year Language Reader
Hawthorne’s Wonder Book
Longfellow’s Hiawatha
Eggleston’s First Book in American History

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Builders of Our Country Book One
Carpenter’s North America
Carpenter’s South America
Long’s Wilderness Ways
Good Health, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series Book One
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Two
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetie Book Five
King’s Elementary Geography
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book V
American Musie Reader II Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary
GRADE VI.
| Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin’s Sixth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades Book Six |
Baker Carpenter Sixth Year Language Reader
Burrough’s Birds and Bees and Sharp Eyes
Hawthorne's Tanglewood Tales:
Longfellow’s Miles Standish
Long’s Secrets of the Woods
Builders of Our Country Book Two
; Gordy’s American Leaders and Heroes
Carpenter’s Europe
Carpenter's Asia
Carpenter’s Africa
Carpenter’s Austraha, Our Colonies, and Other Islands of
the Sea
Emergencies, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series Book One :
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Two
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetie Book Six
Tarr-MceMurry New Geography Second Book Part One
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VI
American Music Reader III
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
GRADE VII.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin Seventh Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades Book Seven
Irving Sketch Book
Lamb's Tales of Shakespeare 
Franklin’s Autobiography
Holmes’ Selections
‘Whittier’s Snow-Bound
Kingsley’s Greek Heroes
Long’s Wood Folk at School
Town and City, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series Book Two
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Three
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography Second Book Part Two
Barnes’ School History of the United States
Montgomery’s American History
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VIT
American Music Reader III Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary
GRADE VII.
Williams Choice Literature
Baldwin’s Eighth Year Reader
Jones’ Readers by Grades Book Eight
Hawthorne's Legends of New England
Hawthorne’s Tales of the White Hills
Longfellow’s Evangeline
Lowell’s Vision of Sir Launfal
Guerber’s Story of the Greeks
- The Body at Work, Guelick Series
Reed Word Lessons
Metealf Rafter’s Language Series Book Two
Durell’s Arithmetie Book Three
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Barnes’ School History of the United States
Montgomery’s American History
Higginson’s Young Folk’s History of the United States
(  copies)

Scudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery's Leading Facts in English History  copies)
Higginson Channing's English History for Americans
American Musie Reader IV
Natural Advanced Musie Reader
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary
GRADE IX.
Williams Choice Literature
Secott’s Ivanhoe
Seott's Lady of the Lake
Longfellow’s Tales of Wayside Inn
Bryant’s Selections
Guerber’s Story of the Romans
Julius Caesar
Merchant of Venice
Control of Body and Mind, Guelick Series
| Metealf Rafter’s Language Series Book Two

Lewis’ First Manual of Composition  copies)
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Three
Bradbury Emery’s Algebra for Beginners
Wentworth’'s First. Steps in Algebra
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Adams’ Elementary Commercial Geography
Keller Bishop's Commercial and Industrial Geography
Barnes’ School History of the United States
Montgomery's American History
Higginson’s United States History  copies)
Seudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)
American Musie Reader IV
Natural Advaneed Musie Reader
Webster’s Common School Dictionary
Funk Wagnall’s Concise Dictionary

BOOKS FOR TEACHER'S DESK.
Perry’s Bible Manual
Ireland’s Story, Johnson
Blaisdell’s Physiology

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Dunglison’s Physiology
Dubb’s Arithmetical Problems :
Joy’s Arithmetic Without Pencil

BOOKS NOT ASSIGNED TO GRADES.
Union Series Physiclogy, Books One, Two and Three
Spaulding and Miller Series of Spellers
HIGH SCHOOL.
ENGLISH.
Author Title
Addison Sir Roger de Coverly Papers
Arnold Sohrab and Rustum
Bacon Essays Civil and Moral
Browning Poems (Selections)
Bryant Selections
Buehler Modern English Grammar
Burke Essay on Conciliation with the
American Colonies .
Burke Essay on American Taxation
Burns Poems
Byron Selections (Arnold)
Carlyle Essay on Burns
Chaucer Prologue and Knight's Tale
Coleridge The Ancient Marimer
Cooper The Last of the Mohicans
DeQuincey Flight of Tartar Tribe
Dickens Tale of Two Cities
Dowden Life of Shakespeare (Primer)
Dryden Alexander’s Feast
Dryden Palamon and Arcite
Ehot Silas Marner
Emerson Fortune of the Republic
Emerson Essay on Culture, Books, ete.
Gayley Classic Myths
Genung Outlines of Rhetoric
Goldsmith Deserted Village and The
Traveller

Goldsmith Vicar of Wakefield
Gray Poems (Selections)

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Guerber Myths of Gre and Rome

Guerber Myths of Northern Lands

Halleck History of English Literature

Hawthorne House of the Seven Gables

Hawthorne Tales of the White Hills and
Sketches

Hawthorne Twice Told Tales

Hitcheock Enlarged Practice Book in
English Composition

Irving Sketeh Book (Six Selections)

Irving The Alhambra

Irving Life of Goldsmith

Irving Tales of Traveller

Lincoln Gettysburg Sph

Longfellow Evangeline

Lowell Vision of Sir Launfal

Lowell Essay on Lincoln and Lincoln’s
Gettysburg Sph and Other Papers

Macaulay Life of Johnson

Milton Lyrics

Milton Paradise Lost (Books and
IT)

Plutarch Lives (Selections)

Pope Rape of the Lock

Pope Translation of the Iliad

Scott Ivanhoe

Seott Lay of the Last Minstrel

Scott Denney New Composition Rhetoric

Shakespeare As You Like It |

Shakespeare Hamlet

Shakespeare Julius Caesar

Shakespeare King John

Shakespeare Macheth (Gateway and Rolfe
Editions)

Shakespeare Merchant of Venice

Shakespeare Midsummer Night’s Dream

Shakespeare Twelfth Night

Shakespeare Sonnets

Shakespeare Antony and Cleopatra :

Shakespeare Henry V

Shakespeare King Lear

Shakespeare Mueh Ado About Nothing |

Shakespeare Othello

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Shakespeare Romeo and Juliet
Shakespeare The Tempest
Shakespeare Two Noble Kinsmen
Shakespeare Winter’s Tale
Southey Life of Nelson
Spenser Faerie Queen I
Spenser Faerie Queen II
Tennyson Idylls of the King
Tennyson Poems
Thoreau Succession of the Forest Trees
Warner Hunting of the Deer
Washington Farewell Address
Webster First Bunker Hill Oration
Wordsworth Poems (Arnold Selections)

FRENCH.
Daudet Tartarin de Tarascon
Dumas La Tulipe Noire
Francois Advaneed French Prose Composition
Francois and Giroud Simple French
Fraser and Squair Short French Course
Fraser and Squair French Grammar
Halevy L’Abbe Constantin
Koren French Prose Composition
Labiche Martin La Poudre aux Yeux
Labiche Martin Le Voyage de M. Perrichon
La Fontaine Fables
Lamartine Jeanne d’Are
Larousse Grammaire Francais
Logie About, Le Roi des Montagnes
Loti Pecheur D’Islande
Merimee Colomba
Moliére Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme
Pailleron Le Monde ou  ’on S’Ennuie
Sandeau Mlle. de la Seighiere
Sarcey Le Siege de Paris
Super French Reader
Super Mémoires d’un Collégien
GERMAN

Bacon Im Vaterland
Baumbach Die Nonna

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Freytag Die Journalisten
Goethe Hermann und Dorothea
Gohdes Buschek Sprach-und Lesebueh
Guerber Marchen und Erzahlungen,
| Part I-I]
Heath German Dictionary
Heine Die Harzreise
Jagemann Syntax
Joynes-\Meissner German Grammar
Kayser Monteser Brief German Course
Lessing Afinna von Rarnhelm
Manley Allen Four German Comedies
Moser Der Bibliothekar
Pope German Composition
Pope Writing and Speaking German
Riehl Der Fluech de Schonheit
Schiller Wilhelm Tell
, Storm Tmmensce
Wildenbruch Das Edle Blut
. SUPPLEMENTARY GERMAN.
Baumbach Der Schwiegersohn
Hauff Das Kalte Herz
Hevse L’Arrabbiata
Von Hillern Hoher als die Kirche
LATIN AND GREEK.
Allen and Greenough Virgil
Allen and Greenough Cicero
Allen and Greenough Caesar
Allen and Greenough Ovid
Allen and Greenough Latin Grammar
Allen and Greenough New Latin Grammar
Barss Cornelius Nepos
Barss Writing Latin, Book One, Revised Edition
Barss Writing Latin, Book Two, Revised Edition
Bennett Cicero de Senectute and de
Amicitia
Bennett New Latin Composition
Collar and Daniell Greck Composition
*T) ‘Ooge Cicero

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

D’Ooge Viri Romae

*FKlairclough-Brown Virgil’s Aeneid

Goodwin Greek Grammar |

Goodwin and White Xenophon’s Anabasis

Hale First Latin Book, Revised

HWeberman Sallust’s Catiline

*Johnson Sanford Caesar Gallie War

Jones Latin Composition

Keep Use of Moods and Tenses

Kirtland Fabulae Faciles

Moulton Latin Composition )

Potter New Method for Caesar

Sevmour Homer's Odyssey

Walker Caesar’s Civil War, Text Edition :

White First Greek Book

HISTORY.

Ashley American Government

Channing History of the United States

Cheney Short History of England

Johnson Ireland’s Story:

Mclaughlin History of the American Nation, New Edition

Myers Ancient History, Revised

Walker Essentials in English History,
Revised

‘West Ancient History ,

West Modern History

Wolfson Essentials of Ancient History

MATHEMATICS.

Hall and Knight School and College Algebra

Hedrick Algebra

Milne Plane Geometry

Sanders Elements of Plane and Solid
Geometry

Stone-Millis Elementary Algebra

Wentworth Revised Plane Geometry

Wentworth Revised Plane and Solid Geometry

*Students’ Series of Latin Classics, B. H. Sanborn Co.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Wentworth Second Revision Plane and
Spherical Trigonometry
Wentworth and Hill Five Place Logarithmie and
Trigonometriec Tables
SCIENCE. ,
Ary, Bryant, Clendenin Physiography
Morrey
Atkinson Botany for Schools
Black Davis Practical Physies
Blanchard Household Chemistry
Blanchard Wade Foundations of Chemistry
Clark General Science
Carhart and Chute High School Physies
Coulter Plants
Russell Kelley Laboratory Manual for FirstYear Science
Tarr Von Engeln Laboratory Manual for Physical Geography
COMMERCIAL.
Belding Commercial Correspondence
Carrington Speed Book for Typewriting
Daly Advanced Rational Speller
Eldrige Shorthand Dictation Exercises
-  Enitz-Eldridge Expert Tvpewriting
Gannett, [larmison Houston Commercial Geography
Gano Commereial Law
Tsaaec Pitman Course nm Shorthand
Klein Elements of Accounting
Van Tuvyl Complete Business Arithmetic
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping
Williams and Rogers Modern I[lustrative Banking
DOMESTIC SCIENCE.
Norton Food and Dietics
Williams and Fisher Elements of the Theory of
Cooking
. ELOCUTION.
emerson Evolution of Expression, Vol.
 and  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Halleck History of American Literature
Halleck History of English Literature
EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Chancellor Standard Short Course for }
Evening Schools
Crampton Hygiene for Workers
Field Covenay  English for New Americans
O’Brien English for Foreigners, Books
) and II
Powers Complete Speller
Price Direct Method of Teaching
: English
Prior Ryan How to Learn English
Rafter City and Town
Winslow United States
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.

Ewart, Field Morrison Civil Service Manual
McDonald Foundations in English
Teller Brown Business Methods

EVENING VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Holton Shop Mathematics

PART VIII.
GRADUATING CLASSES— 
HIGH SCHOOL.

Leland Christy Allen Armand Leo Lavoie
Marjorie Marshall Allen Helen Mary Lawrence
Helen Elizabeth Allwn Alice Mildred Le Duke

] Clara Ida Baker Maurice Liberman
Dorothy Margaret Baum Ethel Carohne Lubold
Francis Michael Beauregard George Michael MeCarthy
Edwin Walter Beinis Catherine Maria \IeCormick
Thomas Joseph Brennan *Mary Agnes MeCormick
Albert Fred. Bretschneider Louise MeElwain
Howard Leonard Brooks Williain Joseph MeGrath
Evelyn Josephine Buckley Patrick Francis MeHale

| Phoebe Ella Bushnell Thomas Francis Malone
James Edmund Byrnes Loris Mary Manson
Emily Evelyn Carroll Allie Waldron Miller
Stewart Sandy Clark Elsie Ann Milnes
dohn Albert Cleary Janet Theresa Moran
Alice Ellen Conway Alice Louise Moniarty
James Joseph Courtney Marjory Hespeler Morrow
Lydia Bond Cowan Ralph Franeis Nevin
Margaret Elizabeth Crean Edward Buckland Newton
Mary Veronica Cronin Tsabel Chase Nichols
William Franeis Cunningham Mildred Mary Nickerson
John Buel Deardon Edward James O'Connor
Nathalie Marie DeVylder Michael Francis O’Connor
Mareia Ford Dibble Gertrude Frances O’Grady
tTKatherine Agatha Donahue Grace Bridget O'Leary
*Died Wednesday, June .
“Certificate of Completion.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

Pearl Frances Driscoll Lillian Constance O’Leary
Helen Isabel Dunn Loretta Marie O’Neill
William Conant Durant Timothy Charles O’Neill
Thomas Epstein Ida Celemene Parmolee
Robert John Farrell Mae Clair Payne

Thomas Edward Fitzgerald Hazel Alice Pelissier

Ruth Catherine Fitzsimmons Walter Raymond Pendleton
Charles Herman Foerster Elizabeth Ingham Perkins
Roxy Bates Forbes Esther Myrl Pickup |
Grace Elizabeth Forsythe Louise Marion Potvin
Ralph Esmond Fortune Frank Michael Powers
Gladvs Hanks Fraleigh Blanid Louise Prendergast
Katherine Thresa Garvey Isabel Marguerite Purves
George Pierce Geran Florence Jeanette Rae
Richard Barthley Gillis Edwin Hope Rayson
William Edward Greaney Gertrude Anna Renner
IH[elen Margaret Griffin Agnes Thomson Robertson
Helen Elizabeth Hancock David Nathan Rubin
Milton John Hafey Verna Elizabeth Sawin
George Henry Hanley Charles Henry Sears
Elmer Joseph Harrington Philip Henry Sears
Harold Harvey Hay John Joseph Shea
Arthur Doering Heinritz Eleanor Teresa Shea |
Reita Adele Henderson Nora Cecilia Sheehan
Mary Theresa Herlihy Madeline Ruth Sheldon
Eleanor Heywood Emanuel Silverman

Ralph Dwight Higginbotham Sarah Silverman

Wilham Edward Hilbert Wilham Maurice Silverman
Howard Patrick Horrigan Mary Juha Slattery

John Francis Parish Hoyt Claude Hamilton Smith
Mary Esther Hoyt Frank Thomas Smith
Flora Helen Hunter Una Spamer

Margaret Pearl Judson Yvonne St. Martin

Rose Kaplinsky Evelyn Constance Sullivan
Erma Gertrude Karle Marie Beatrice Sullivan
Harold Paul Kelly Pearl Pollock Thomson
 Maude Elizabeth Keating Adelaide Blanche Turner

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Della Veronica Kennedy Louise Wilhelinine Vester :
Daniel Wim. Cahill Kenney, Jr. Charles James Walsh
Michael Franeis Kerin Teresa Marie Ward
Edward Kidnay Edward Chapin Whiting
John Patrick Kiley Mary Esther Williams
Hugh Maxwell Kirkland Miriam Stockwell Winchester
Anna Mary La Breque John Richard Wolohan
Hertha Sophie Lauckner Veronica Margaret Wynn
George Herman Langhauser

HIGHLAND SCHOOL.
Dora Maud Armstrong Dorothy Cecelia Mangum
Marion Jean Beman Eugene Justin MeCarthy
Raymond Smith Bond Frances Margaret McCarthy
Irma Reta Brunelle Beatrice May McGrady
George Fred Callahan Anthony Albert Mush
Eleanor Marie Carey Donald Farnum Moriarty
Howard Frissell Carlson Ruth Louise Moriarty
WToward Paul Carroll James Robert Nolen
Harold Joseph Chevalier Daniel Jerome O'Connell
Marie Agnes Clifford Mary O'Connell
Earl Chapman Coburn Charles Daniel O’Connor
Edward Joseph Connor Grace Revena O’Grady
Allan Ross Craigie Francis Edward O’Neil
Edith Craven William John O’Neil
Marion Squier Davis Marjorie Parfitt
Rose Margaret Delaney Helen Alfretta Parker
Bernice Eleanor Dewey Mary Louise Parsons
Wallace Hampden Dibble Edna Pearce
Richard Alfred Dietz Katherine Thompson Pelissier
Hazel Frances Dovle Howard Francis Pellissier
Mildred Caroline Ferguson Ezra Alden Pickup
Mary Elizabeth Foley Bertha Freeman Rackliffe
Mary Monroe Forbes Katherine Frances Ranger
Lee William Charles Foster Susie Lillian Riley
Evelyn Laura Grant Harold Stilman Roosevelt
Viola Mary Greene Margaret Louise Ryan

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Albert Harold Guenther Marion Gertrude Ryan
Angela Cavanaugh Hafey Arthur Newell Shaw
John Joseph Haley Ralph Edwin Simard
Anna Louise Hancock Kenneth Linwood Small
Edna Emma Herder Dorothy Huston Smith
Ruth Evelyn Hicks Wallace Fuller Smith
Emory Leslie Hill Irma Snyder
Esther Frances Kelly Cornelius Michael Sullivan
Beatrice Agnes Kennedy Beatrice Holcomb Sutherland
Eleanor Grant Kingsbury Beatrice Mary Sykes
Madelyn Rose Kingsbury Edgar Dowson Waring
Jennie Frances Kirkpatrick Jrene Cora Warner
John Hoban Knightly Ethel Mary Watson
Philip Erskine Ladd Ida Mary Webber
Clair Franees Le Duke Lillian Margaret Weir
Edward Brainard Lester Leroy Gordon West
Marion Clair Lincoln Eleanor Laura Whitten
Vernon Alfred Luce William Allyn Whiesing
Josephine Ivera MacCarthy Arthur Lewis Williams
Henry Joseph Mackley Bertha May Young
JOSEPH METCALF SCHOOL.
Martha Emma Bader Agnes Veronica Mahoney
Raymond Louis Baker William Carl Marx
Alfred August Baush Mary Lucy Martie
Gertrude Marion Bliss Milda Olga Martin
Madeline Alice Bliss Peter Joseph Mason
Ida Bloome Wilson Mathieson
Albert Hermann Bosbach Laurence Elmer McCormick
Kathryn Mary Bosler William John MelIntyre
Helen Luella Bray John Spence Merriman
Ralph Clifford Brougham Florence Ida Mougin
Rita Satira Brougham Roy Redman Nevin
Leo Augustine Byrnes Lester Studley Nickerson
Anna Caplan Mary Troupe Phillips
Russell Edward Chase Ruth Mae Pierce

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Nellie Bell Childs Clayton Fred Popp

Eleanor Veronica Collins Maude Margaret Richter

Marian Cross Robert William Ripley

Walter Francis Crowson Israel Hyman Roberts

Wendell Thissell Davis Margaret. Elizabeth Sechloerb

Irene Margaret Deardon Donald Frank Shaw

Robert. Jerome Desmond Daniel Francis Shea

Loretta Teresa Dowd Elmer Andrew Shea

Theresa Margaret Duke Cornehus Joseph Sheehan

Violet Blanche Dupee Edith Margaret Sheehan

Beatrice Escott Walter Sizer

Wilham Joseph Farrell Enos Franeis Smith

Mary Teresa Fenton Michael Somers

Catherine Webster Gammie Fred Charles Sorton

Walter Richard Goehring Sydney Joshua Tavlor

Frederick Haarmann Florence Helen Thorpe

Clayton Reynolds Iarvey Elizabeth Hedwig Vester

Howard Mathew Hogan Frieda Elizabeth Wassell

Leonard Nathan Holden Thilda Ruth Wassell

Wilham Francis Keating Anthony Peter Weleps

Trene Teresa Kennedy Albert Henry West

Anna Knapp Florence Alice Williston

Ernest George Kuenzel Maurice Kenneth Willey

LAWRENCE SCIIOOL.

Rose Abramson Montgomery Knight

Ethel Wilhelmina Astley Lous Albert Lefranka

Laura Tavlor Astley Edith Lambert

Alfred Osear Ral Frew Laidlaw

Clara Rosahe Baal Lawrence Wordsworth Law

Leila Inez Barnes Elsie Alelena Lemelin

Samuel Abraham Barger Pauline Rose Lewis

Gustave Martin Bartch Wilham Charles Luby

Beatrice Marie Bateman  William Michael Lyons

Raymond Donald Beauchmin Mermlle Gilbert Malbouf |

Frank Leon Blair Edith Masterson |
|
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Philp Churchill Blanchard Lilhan Mary McDonald
Ruth Isabel Bolter William Henry McLean
Lydia Louise Bork George Miller
Frances Gaylord Buckley Edwin Franklin Miles
Millicent Alethea Burgess Ida Virginia Morin
Irving Edward Burns Lena Hazel Mullin
Julia Burnstein Ruth Harriet Nimmo
John Franeis Cain Timothy Francis O’Brien
John Cassie Marion Katherine O'Connell
Hugh Joseph Carroll Gwendolyn Beatrice O'Connor
Thelma Doris Clapp Wallace Edward Phillips
Felix James Costance Anna Mae Reynolds
Raymond Sheared Cray Robert Bruce Richardson
Doris Danner Bessie Elsie Robinson
Rebecca Louise Donahue Dorothy Butler Robinson
David James Dunn Charles William Ross
Alice Catherine Fay George Leshe Sackett
Lillian Naomi Fay Harolde James Savoy
Irene Lillian Feeney Gertrude Louise Schoenfeld
Alfred Forbes Dorothy Grace Shea
Aurora Adrienne Fregeau Mae Evelyn Shea
Eva Gertrude Godkin Mary Agnes Shine
Miriam Gold George Charles Sinclair
Edward Joseph Gorman Charles Wiliam Small
Morris Gordon John Sylvester Smith
Agnes Emelia Glutney Harold Smith Spafford
Henry Harold Grady Herman Louis Stone
Mary Anna Gugenberger Jessie Grear Stuart
William Charles Gutzman James Leo Sullivan
Louis William Haskell Francis Joseph Swords
James Edmund Hurley James Brown Tiffany
Eliot Dole Hutchinson Frederick Markhain Toye
Irving Thomas Johnson Dorothy Tulloch
Rudolph Arthur Johnson Wilham Gilmore Walker
John Joseph Kane Sarsfield Michael Walsh
Jeannette Kinne Walter Francis Wesely

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MORGAN SCHOOL.
I:lsie Sophie Achnick Gertrude Lilian Kurth
Lilhan Eva Beauchamp Elsie Augusta Kurtz
Ella Clara Beitsch Frederick Edward Laudenat
Florme Margaret Belanger Eddie J. Baptiste LaFremaye
Pauline Emeline Bessette Lillian Lina Lawrence
Herman Bober Bella Bertha Malin
iilhian Bertha Bove Lydia Flora Martin
Anna Veronica Bresnahan Agnes Veronica McDonald
Anna Veronica Broderick Anna \iay MeNally
Frank Edward Brogle Abraham George Mekler
Enuily Caplan Ethel Mekler
Janet Mason Gleghorn Harry Mengel
Nora Veronica Collins Lillia Rosine Messier
Gladys May Coughlin Germaine Mary Mireault
Martha Louise Doering Mae Veronica Murphy
Arthur Francis Dineen Christopher Joseph Murphy
Bertha Caroline Eckart Sophie Wanda Alma Nazemblo
Ann Epstein Hattie Niesner
Carleton Joseph Ernst John Richard Nelson
Helen Fairhurst Margaret Eliz. Marv Norris
Elsie Cecilia Flynn Margaret Marv O’Connor
Maria Dora Forest BKlizabeth Helen Pielke
Charles Leonard Frank Erna Helen Pueschel
Robert John Freeman Harry Herman Rabin
Solhe Frank Green Iglantine Alma Riopel
Marion Clair Goss Mildred Augusta Roche
Harold Fielding Gregory John William Sehmidt
Albert Anton Groh Charles Edward Schindler
Rose Haberman Edmund Stanlou Silinsky
Leo George Hamel Fannie Charlotte Skolnik
Florence Mary Healy Bertha Catherine Solt
Fern Irene Sylvia Hooker Osear Arcedus St. Laurence
Robert Webster Hovt John Souness
John William Huebner Frank Hyman Suher
Jennie Elizabeth Hudson Ida Evelyn Suher .

|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Cecil William Keeler Evelyn Watt Sey Thomson
Anna Margaret Klinke Edgar Dean Tower
Martha Elvira Kreisig Flora Elizabeth Trinnel
Arthur Charles Krueter Milda Clara Uhlmann
Irene Anna Kuenzel Eleanor Louise Wagenknecht
Sophia Kuenzel Julius Wargo
Abraham Zimmerman
WEST STREET SCHOOL.
Roy Ernest Aubrey Evelyn Francis La France
Ethel Gertrude Barrett Albert Joseph Mainville
Hazel Barrett Roy Patrick MeCarthy
Hazel Dorothy Belding Agnes McKinstrie
Anthony Walter Bober Grace Agnes MacMahon
Charles Edward Collins Michael Joseph Morrison
Alfred Joseph Donais Marion Sullivan
John Thomas Dougherty Irene Helen Snyder
Emile Charles Goulet Irene Vincellette
Della Helen Hebert Helen Veronica Whalen
Myrtle Hilma Johnson Walter Bernard Wolfe
Bella Agnes Loiseau John Joseph Wynn
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
Diana Blanchette Dennis. Jerome Lynch
John Stephen Burnette Joseph Edward Marcotte
Edward Adolph Carl Hugh Joseph MeIntyre
Milton John Greene Eileen Agnes Moriarty
Margaret Frances Grogan Juliette Bertha Perry
Michael Francis Healy Camille Louis Picard
Lena Goldie Jacobson Beartice Helen Quinn
Thomas Daniel Kinney Ethelyn Vernon Record
William Gustave Kuenzel George Joseph Ross
Eugene Vincent Lacallee Ernestine Schimmel
Anna Julienne Leprohon Emily Albine Stebbins
Antoinette Agnes Leprohon Oswald C. Vachon
Margaret Josephine Lovett Robert Wordsworth

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
LAWRENCE EVENING SCHOOL.
David MecUlpine Burnett William Russell Lowell
Cammiel Charles Castonguay Mary Bridget MeCarthy
Mary Rose Coutu Armand Mercure
Rhea Alice Couture Lena Magdalene Mittler
Mae Belle Dean James Morrison
Theresa Veronica Fitzgerald George Alovsius O’Connor
Maurice Michael Forhan Mary Cecilia O'Connor
Catherine Cecilia Grady Harry Aaron Resnick
John Alovsius Griffin Amabilis Sehryer
John Mathew Kane William Patrick Smalley
Gertrude Attalina Lacroix Rudolph Arthur Stich
Edward Joseph Langlois Josephine Elizabeth Szetela
John Erik Larsson Rose Anna Turcotte
Bernice Hazel Cecila Lefever Emily Rose Weibel
Alma Vitaline Lefebvre
MORGAN EVENING SCHOOL.
Alice Althea Benoit Aldea Eva Labonte
Claudia Odina Bertrand Alma Lamirand
Dolores Louise Brien Regina La Fontaine
Alphonse Brodeur Adelina Larocque
Mary Burgens Annie Lobel
Mary Martina Daly Rose Lobel
Marcella Viola Elbisser Joseph MeGrath
Wilham John Fitzgerald Antoinette Nora Menard
William John Foley Gedeon Palmieri
George Fontaine Dewey H. Paquette
Rose Fournier Ameha Peloquin
Marie Frissyn Mary Area Pronovost
Marion Helena Gagnon Mary Elizabeth Roberts
Albert Gerbert Albina Roy
Mare Rose Girard Ora Rov
Alfred Grandchamp Rosia Roy
Isadore Armand Granger Lillie Ernestine Sachariat
Emily Rose Haller Victoria Eva St. Pierre

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Peter Hamel Michael E. Seully
Martha Mary Klinke Ella Elizabeth Sears
Eugenia Konrad Trene Margaret Spinks
Edward John Kurtz Marvy Elizabeth Spinks
Otta Alfred Kurtz Louis Fernand Willemain
WEST STREET EVENING SCHOOL.
Agnes Watt Barclay Rose Anna Early
Corinne Bibiane Beauregard John Ernest Rene Gagnon
Leo Francis Bergeron Anna Ruth Gahan
Herman Romeo Boissy Dorothy Cordelia Jeannote
Dora Anna Brisbois Ernest Joseph Labare
Joseph William Brisbois Lilhan Helen Lancto
James Emile Bronner Lillian Magdalene Loiseau
Louise Constance Bronner Lawrence James McCarthy
Irene Cecilia Chaput Alexander Patrick McGuire
- Mary Agnes Covle Eva Jeanette Parent
Bella Rosealba D’ Artois Anna Marie Scollard
Joseph Osear DeRov Luev Marie Sharon
Loretta Pearl Ryan
. WILLIAM WHITING EVENING SCHOOL.
Leon Jean Genard Claudio Lamay
Joseph Peter Jazowski Andrew Aloysius Maziarz
Mary Veronica Pavlica

OF THE
OF THE

To the Mayor, Aldermen, School Board and Citizens of Holyoke: At meeting of the Board of Trustees held on February this complete report was presented.

At meeting held on March it was accepted and
ordered printed. It  divided into nine parts, as follows:
PART I. Organization of School Board, Board of Trustees,

standing committees, advisory committees; time of
meetings, terms, office hours and school calendars.

PART II. Report of Committee on Annual Report from Board of
Trustees to City Government.

PART III. Report of Secretary and Director to Board of Trustees.
PART IV. Statistical report covering matters of finance, attendance, carning power, accounts, etc.

PART V. Inventory of equipment in day and evening schools.

PART VI. List of books adopted for use by pupils.

PART VII. Organization and roster of the Vocational School on
March giving salaries paid, work and subjects
taught, experience and training.

PART VIII. List of pupils in Day Vocational School according to
departments. Productive work of these pupils.

PART IN. Text of agreement between Massachusetts Board of
Education and Holyoke Board of Trustees for Vocational Education.

PART I.

The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for

the year is as follows:
Term Expires
(DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS,  
At Large JOSEPH B. WEIS, january  
Ward  —JOHN F. KENNEDY, January,  
Wara  —DR. WILFRED G. DEROIN, January,  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH, January,  
Ward  —-PATRICK SHEA, January,  
Ward  —JOHN J. O’CONNOR, January,  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH, January,  
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS, January,  
HON. JOHN H. WOODS, Mayor.
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.

The authorization of the Holyoke Vocational School is
derived from certain acts of the Massachusetts Legislature
and from city ordinance as follows:

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City
of Holyoke as follows:

Section  The Holyoke Independent Industrial
School comprising day and evening vocational classes, is
hereby established in comphance with and under the provisions of Chapter of the Acts of  and Chapter  
of the Acts of  and any acts in amendment thereof.

SECTION  The entire care, management and control
of said Independent Industrial School and vocational courses
is hereby vested in Board of Trustees, to be appointed by
the School Committee of Holyoke, subject to confirmation
by the Board of Aldermen, and said Board of Trustees shall
have authority to manage, to provide for and maintain such

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
school. Any vacancy that may occur shall be filled in hke
manner for the remainder of the unexpired term.

SecTION  The said Board of Trustees shall so provide, maintain and conduct said school and do all things that
may be necessary in order to entitle the city to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth as provided for im Chapter
  of the Acts of  and Chapter of the Acts of
 and any acts in amendment thereof.

Section  +. The said Board of Trustees shall keep an
accurate record of all acts and doings of the Board and a
full itemized account of all receipts and expenditures, and
shall make full report annually to the Mayor and the
Board of Aldermen.

SecTION  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage, (November ).

The organization of the Board of Trustees for Voeational Education for is as follows:

Term Expires
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Brown Avenue, January,  
WILLS M. FLEMING, Maple Street, January,  
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS. Chestnut Street, January,  
FREDERIChK S. WEBBER, Sycamore Street, January,  
JOHN J. O'CONNOR, Clinton Avenue, January,  
EDWIN D. WELLES. Walnut Street. January,  
MRS. CHARLES A. CHASI:, Pearl Street, January,  
JOSEPH B. WEIS, Cleveland Street, January,  
DENNIS F. LYNCH, Chestnut Street, January,  

| AUGUST H. BAUSH. Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary.

The sub-committees of this Board for are as follows:

RULES, SALARIES AND FINANCE:

MESSRS. WEBBER, WEIS, LYNCH.
SUPPLIES:

MESSRS, POTTS, O'CONNOR, BAUSH.

TEACHERS, COURSES OF STUDY AND TEXT BOOKS:

MESSRS... WELLS, FLEMING, MRS. CHASE.

REPORT OF  HE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
The advisory committees to the Board are as follows:
METAL TRADES:
WILLIS D. BALLARD, Pearl Street.
FREDERICK W. KOEGEL, Brown Avenue.
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB, Fairfield Avenue.
BUILDING TRADES:
JOSEPH F. RANGER, Nonotuck Street.
ISRAEL DUCHARME, Papineau Street.
WILLIAM B. O'NEIL, Congress Avenue.
PRINTING:
MICHAEL J. DOYLE, Elm Street.
ANDREW J. HUNTER, School Street.
JOSEPH LUSSIER, Nonotuck Street.
PAPERMAKING:
SIDNEY EE. WHITING, Oak Street.
HENRY PP. CARRUTH, North Pleasant Street.
DAVID F. SULLIVAN, Maple Street.
ELECTRICAL WORK:
GEORGE E. JOHNSON, Allyn Street.
ARTHUR J. NEWELL, Washington Avenue.
GEORGE M. PRENTICE, JR., Essex Street.
TEXTILE WORK:
FRED A. McLANE, North Pleasant Street.
WALTER H. ARMSTRONG, Nonotuck Street.
EUGENE R. ALDERMAN, Pearl Street.
HOME-MAKING:
MRS. JOHN J. FINN, Linden Street.
MRS. CAROLINE MOQUIN, Pine Street. "
MRS. ALMA SCHIRCH, Walnut Street.
The meetings and office hours are as follows:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
A regular meeting is held on the first Tuesday evening
of every month at o'clock, at Chestnut street.
. SECRETARY.
In office at Chestnut street on school days fromm
  a. m. to m. and from p. m. to p. m.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
In office on Saturday mornings and Tuesday evenings
by appointment.
Office is closed on legal holidays.
DIRECTOR.
At Vocational School on Sargeant Street from  
a.m. to a. m. and p. m. to p. m. on all school days.
Office hour on school days from p. m. to p. m.
Office is closed on legal holidays.
DAY VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Winter term began January .
Winter term ends February .
Spring term begins March .
Spring term ends April .
Summer term begins May .
Summer term ends June .
Fall term begins September .
Fall term ends December .
Winter term begins January .
EVENING VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Term of began October .
Term of ends March .
,  Term of begins Oetober .
Term of ends March .
VACATIONS.
February to Mareh inclusive.
May to May inelusive.
July to September inclusive.
December to January inclusive.
HOLIDAYS. .
Every Saturday, New Year’s Day, Washington’s Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
July, Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day
with the day following, Christmas Day, and Teachers’ Convention Days.
LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
Washington’s Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.

PART Il.
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:
The Board of Trustees of the Holyoke Vocational School
takes pleasure in presenting to you this first annual report.

To most effectively educate and fit for the usual occupations of hfe that large majority of our public school pupils
to whom circumstances deny the higher educational advantages, school authorities are generally realizing the value
and indeed the absolute necessity of vocational training and
trade extension courses. Living conditions in the United
‘States are rapidly changing. The population is becoming
‘urban. The small shop with its opportunities for ‘‘all
-around’’ trade training is vanishing. The large industries
are demanding enormous numbers of skilled workmen and

| are training but few. The skilled general mechanics of a
few years since are giving way to ‘‘machine operators’’ and
‘“manufaeturing specialists.’’ Broadly trained men were never
at greater premium in the trades than at present.

While vocational training will no more produce finished
journeyman mechanies than will the medical school experienced doctors, nor the college of technology mechanical engineers, it is undoubtedly fact that the vocational school
can and does ground the earnest student in the broad fundamental principles of his chosen trade in minimum of time
and at minimum cost, and puts him well in line to become a
skilled journevman or ultimately suecessful foreman.
Further than this, the related technieal courses and the cultural training of the vocational school  of inestimable value
in its broadening influence on the future eitizen.

The great movement of industrial training in the publie

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
schools originating in Germany some years since, and undoubtedly responsible to degree for that nation’s rapid rise
to industrial excellence, has been taken up in America, and
especially in this Commonwealth, with intelligence and enthusiastic energy. Successful American trade schools already attest the correctness of the principles on which vocational training is based. An educational revolution is imminent. The vocational school will distinctly eliminate the present subordination of the interests of per cent of public
school pupils whose schooling ceases with the grammar or
high school grades to the interests of those few finally receiving collegiate training. It is matter of regret that the
vocational school movement was not initiated years ago in
America.

In this Commonwealth, of such great importance is vo- :
cational training now considered that progressive legislation
provides half reimbursement from the state to local school
authorities providing vocational courses in accordance with
the plans of the State Board of Education.

To secure for Holyoke at the earliest possible time the
advantages of vocational training with state aid your Board
of Trustees has been organized. Of the results of their first
year of service this report treats.

As matter of history, in this report will be found the
full text of the ordinance creating the Holyoke Vocational
School, the organization of the Board of Trustees, and an account of the negotiations and agreement with the State
Board of Education.

ORIGIN OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN HOLYOKE.

In Holvoke, city essentially manufacturing in character, industrial conditions long since necessitated the establishment of an extensive system of evening schools. With
the developments of industrial education the Holyoke school
authorities have kept in close touch. Many visits have been
made from time to time to various trade and vocational

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

schools. Educators ranking as experts in industrial work
have been brought to Holyoke to discuss phases of the problem and to direct the School Committee in its work. The
services of school officials expert in vocational work have
been obtained, and finally in the evening school system
courses training for the industries of the city were established. From these has developed the Holyoke Vocational
School.

ESTABLISHMENT.

The Holyoke Vocational School, organized by the School
Board of Holyoke and opened on September is the
consummation of the preliminary efforts of the school authorities for industrial education in this city.

To secure state aid the school was formally turned
over by the Holyoke School Board to an independent board
known as the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education.
This was in November,  The Board of Trustees was
created by city ordinance to comply with the state laws
governing the establishment of industrial schools.

At this pomt it may not be out of place to acknowledge
the courteous assistance and advice of the agents of the
Massachusetts State Board of Education in the launching of
Holyvoke’s voeational school project. |

AIM OF SCHOOL.

The Voeational School serves two general classes of students: First, those wishing course in preparation for the
industries for which instruction is provided; second, those
regularly emploved in trade work by day who wish by attendance upon evening classes to become more proficient in
their chosen occupation. The Day Voeational School serves

; the first group while the Evemng Trade Extension courses
are designed to help the second. Additionally there are
Practical Arts classes for women condueted as part of the
evening work. The aim of these classes is to inerease efficienev in home-making and home management.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
LOCATION.

Since July,  the Day Vocational School and portion of the Evening School have been housed in quarters in
the High School gymnasium building on the south side of
Sargeant street between Pine and Bh streets. The floor
area here available approximates square feet, exclusive of corridor space, and is sufficient to accommodate properly about one hundred and twenty pupils. The enrolment
is ninety-nine for the day school and six hundred and twelve
for evening work. In consequence, the evening classes in
Practical Arts, Steam Engineering and Electricity are of
necessity occupying for the present satisfactory quarters in
the High School building.

COURSES OF STUDY.

In the Day Vocational School four-year courses of study
are offered in Carpentry and Building, Machine Shop Practice, Pattern Making, Printing and Binding.

The Evening School provides instruction in Practical
Arts and in Trade Extension work as follows:

Cooking Printing (Composition and Press

Sewing, Dressmaking Work )

Millinery Power Operating Course

Embroidery  Drawing for Engineers

Home Nursing Mathematics

Carpentry and Building Electrical Wiring

Drawing for Carpenters and Drawing and Mathematics
teers Pattern Maki

Trade Mathematics Drawing ad ‘Mathematics

Cabinet Construction Bricklaying

Drawing for Cabinet Makers Blue Print Reading for BrickTrade Mathematics layers

Machine Shop Practice Mathematics

Drawing for Machinists Papermaking

Trade Mathematics Decorative Plastering

A course in Industrial Plant Practice in the Day Vocational School is under advisement.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
ORGANIZATION.

The Day School offers complete four years’ course,
providing an option whereby at the beginning of the third
year instruction may be continued on part time basis.
There is the additional provision that the last five months
of the senior vear shall in all cases be given over to full time
employment in actual trade work, and satisfactory report
of the work of this period is prerequisite to the granting
of diploma.

The work of the schools is departmentized, each department being regarded as school in itself so far as instruction
is concerned. The work of each school department consists
of: First, shop practice on the machinery and manipulation of the materials of that trade; second, thorough training in the related technical work in Mathematics, Drawing,
Engiish and Shop Accounts; third, academic or non-related
cultural studies such as Civies, History, Literature and Economies; fourth, Personal Hygiene, Physical Training and
Athleties.

FACULTY.

Reference to the faculty of the Holyoke Vocational
School must perforee be but general in character. General
oversight of the schools is exercised by Mr. Francis MeSherry, Seeretary of the Board of Trustees and Superintendent of Schools of the city. To the technical knowledge
of vocational education and to the enthusiastie initiative of
Mr. MeSherry Holyoke owes much. As Director of the
School the Board of Trustees is fortunate in having Mr.
William II. Whitney, for some time connected with Holvoke’s school svstem and therefore familiar with the needs
of the city, and man thoroughly competent to direct vocational work.

The department instructors have been selected in every
case with view to their experience at their several trades,
their character, and their proven ability as teachers. SatREPOR? OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
isfactory teaching experience has been invariably demanded,
as from experienced trade teachers it is hoped to secure
maximum teaching efficiency, the approval of the agents of
the State Board and consequent state aid. Assistant instructors where required have been selected in so far as possible from local sources in the endeavor to build up source
of supply of trained teachers to meet future demands and
contingencies.

| ENROLMENT.

There are at the present time enrolled in our Day Vocational School ninety-nine pupils, divided as follows:
Carpentry and Building department.............. cec  
Pattern Making department..........  ccecsecc secsces  
Machine Shop Practice department...........   eas  S
Printing department .........        cescctecesesc  Ot

In the evening Practical Arts classes and the Trade Extension courses the total enrolment is six hundred and twelve,
three hundred twenty-six in the former, two hundred and
eighty-six in the latter. That the Evening School is so enthusiastically appreciated is source of great gratification.
The attendance record is most satisfactory, proving conclusively an earnest appreciation of the advantages which
the city has extended to the employed young people.

EQUIPMENT.

The major portion of the equipment of the Holyoke Vocational School has been transferred to the present Trustees for Vocational Education by the School Board. Excellent judgment was displayed by those responsible for its
original purchase, and in such additions as have been made
by the Trustees every effort has been made to preserve the
high standard of utility set by their predecessors. To keep
pace with the growth of the school and. with the continual
development of manufacturing processes, new equipment
and machinery will be required from time to time, and the
present outfit has in each case been selected with view ta

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
economical future expansion. In Part of this report is a
list of the major equipment of the school.

INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS.

The interested public is cordially invited to visit the
school. It is believed that such visit will surprise such as
have not kept in close touch with industrial educational de| velopment. ‘‘Deeds speak louder than words,’’ and the concrete example of work produced is the final criterion by
which the school will be judged. /

An especial invitation is extended to your Honor, the
Mayor, to the Board of Aldermen, to the School Board and
to the citizens of Holyoke to inspect the school at your convenience as such inspection cannot fail to impress upon the
visitor the great field which Holyoke offers to vocational education and the eagerness with which the public has accepted
the courses so far offered.

It is with pleasure that the Board of Trustees is able to
refer in the first annual report to the conspicuous honor
which has been conferred on the Holyoke Vocational School
by the selection of large amount of its work for exhibition
at the Panama-Pacifie Exposition in San Francisco. The se- a
lection of Holyoke exhibits as most representative and satisfactory was made by the State Commissioner to the Exposition after visits to all vocational and trade schools in the
state and careful examination of their attamments.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

Vocational education is no longer an experiment. We
marvel that the movement was not initiated vears ago. The
urgent eall today is for trained hands in connection with
trained minds. The field in Holyoke is exceptionally promising. The instant enthusiastic acceptance of the courses
offered convinees the Trustees that the building of an approved mill type vocational school building adequate for the
housing of all classes cannot long be deferred. In faet, it

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
may be mentioned that even now the State Board of Education is considering our housing facilities as inadequate, and
has demanded definite assurances of disposition to provide
a plant adequate for the work in hand.

NOTES RELATIVE TO THE SCHOOL.
In the words of Dr. Carver, ‘‘If by means of training
. you ean transfer unskilled labor into the more highly skilled
labor, or the skilled labor into the searcer and more needed
work of management, you provide demand for the army
of unemployed and increase the productive power of the community.”’
‘*The school does not aim to turn out skilled journeymen.
. This can only be accomplished by long experience in the
trade. By offering systematic instruction some degree of
skill is developed in the handling of the tools of the trade
and knowledge of the various processes of manufacture is instilled. By the related subjects—drawing, mathematics and
English, the student is made familiar with their practical
application in trade work. Civies, history, literature—the
cultural studies—broaden the student’s outlook, give him
presence and the ability to express himself, hereby laying
the necessary ground work for fcoremanships or executive
positions and for broader ecitizenship.’’
: ‘All work and no play makes Jack dull boy,’’ so
while the pupils are taught the dignity of labor they are also
taught the dignity of recreation. In common with the High
School pupils the vocational students benefit from the physieal training of the High School gymnasium and on the athletic field.
. During the year the following lecturers addressed the
evening classes:
Mr. A. J. Newell on Electricity.
Mr. W. K. Campbell and Mr. W. H. Hampson on Steam
Engineering.
Mr. D. C. Lightner on Cooking.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Mr. G. D. Kilberry, Mr. B. D. Coppage and Mr. A. L.
Barber on Papermaking.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLS M. FLEMING,
. EDWIN D. WELLS,
JOHN J. O’CONNOR,
Committee on Annual Report. :

PART III.
REPORT OF SECRETARY AND DIRECTOR.
To the Board of Trustecs for Vocational Education: |

The Secretary and the Director, in collaboration, herewith submit their first annual report, the important parts of
which include statement of the problem of vocational edueation in Holyoke; statement of the means provided by
law for the solution of this problem; description of the
Day School for Boys, the Trade Extension Courses for Men,
and the Practical Arts Classes for Women.

I. THE GENERAL SITUATION.

The problem of vocational education in Ffolyoke, that is,
the things which this type of education must do, may be
stated as follows:

 To develop new and effective type of apprenticeship training for the skilled trades.

. To prevent the flooding of the skilled trades with
half skilled labor.

 To raise the low standard of workmanship now prevailing in certain skilled trades to higher level.

 To discover groups of tradesmen now engaged in
productive employments and make them more efficient by |
means of special trade extension courses.

 To provide opportunities for women engaged in
Wage-earning occupations or in housework to increase their
earning capacity and to develop greater interest and ability
in the practice of home-making and home management.

 To give to girls between the ages of fourteen and sixteen, who do not intend tu enter High School, opportunities
to lay foundation for trade and to provide them with
the means whereby they may practice the fundamentals of

. home-making and home management.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

+. To provide boys and girls between the ages of fourteen and twenty-five years, who are already regularly employed during the day, an opportunity to extend their general education and to develop vocational skill and intelligence in the trade in which they are now engaged, or in preparation for another trade.

 To put into operation an effective form of vocational
guidance for the boys and girls who do not know how to
choose vocation and who have no means of knowing for
which calling they are best fitted.

: The educational legislation of Massachusetts provides a
number of different means by which this problem may be
solved :

 The All-Day Vocational School for Boys and Girls.
(Chapter  Acts of  .)

 The Part-Time School. (Chapter  Acts of  .)

 The Continuation School. (Chapter  Acts of
 .)

 Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men. (Chapter  Acts of  .)

®. Evening Practical Arts Classes for Women. (Chapter  Acts of  .) .

It is possible to apply all of these methods of solution
to the problem of vocational education in Holyoke. The
classes now operated by the Board of Trustees for Vocational
Edueation in Holyoke are as follows:

 The All-Day Vocational School for Boys.

 Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men emploved during the day.

 Evening Practical Arts Classes for Women employed
during the day.

II. QUESTIONS OF POLICY.

The answers to the following questions will constitute a
partial solution of the problem so far as the general policy
of the Vocational School is concerned:

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  

 Can Holyoke afford to put in operation other methods provided by state law to help solve the problem of vocational education ?

 Can Holyoke afford not to adopt all methods provided by the state law to solve its problem of vocational education ?

 If Holyoke is to make immediate extension to the
work already begun, what direction should this extension
take ?

 Should Holyoke operate Continuation School for
boys and girls between the ages of fourteen and twenty-five
years? :

 Should the All-Day School increase the number of
apprentices enrolled in the trades already offered ?

 Should the All-Day School limit the number of apprentices enrolled in the trades already offered ?

 Should the All-Day School admit apprentices to
training in the trades now offered without regard to the absorbing capacity of the industries for which the training  s
given?

 Should the All-Day School imerease the number of
trade departments, that candidates may have larger number of trades from which to make choice?

Hil. THE ALL-DAY SCHOOL FOR BOYS.

ESTABLISHMENT. This school was organized by the
School Board of Holyoke and opened September In
November of the same vear the school was formally turned
over to an independent board of trustees known as the Board
of Trustees for Voeational Education. This latter Board
now exercises control over the entire vocational scheme for
the eity.

LocatioX. From September,  to July,  the
school oecupied quarters provided by the School Board, in
the High School building. During July and August,  ,
the entire equipment was transferred to the new building on

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

Sargeant Street, between Pine and Bh Streets. All of the
departments now operated in the Day School are housed in
this building. |

TRADE DEPARTMENTS. The school is made up of four
trade departments as follows: Carpentry and Building, Machine Shop Practice, Pattern Making, Printing.

EqQuIPpMENT. The departments now operated are sufficiently well equipped to make successful beginning in trade
Instruction.

A eomplete inventory of the equipment is given in Part
V of this report.

Aim. The Day School aims to prepare boys to take up
specific trades as designated.

| ApMIssion. The Day School is open to boys between
the ages of fourteen and twenty-five who can furnish an employment or an educational certificate.

By means of this plan of admission the school thus provides opportunities for four different groups of boys:

 Grammar School boys fourteen years old or over
who can show ability to profit by the work offered in the
school.

 Bovs already employed who find themselves unable
to advance in their present situation through lack of training.

 Boys who have completed partial course in the
High School and who are not inclined to prepare for the professions.

 High School graduates who wish to prepare themselves for industrial life.

Candidates will be considered for admission at any time
during the school year. If admitted, the pupil must show
within reasonable time ability to proiit by the work attempted.

Promotion. Advancement in the school depends wholly
upon the individual ability of the pupil. There is no class
promotion and no fixed time for promotion.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  

GRADUATION. Pupils who finish successfully two years’

 work, who complete either of the options (explained below)
offered at the beginning of the third year, and who have a
satisfactory record as an apprentice student for the last five
months of the senior year in full-time employment, will be
recommended as suitable candidates for diploma.

LENGTH OF SCHOOL YEAR. The school will be im session
at least forty weeks during the year. At least thirty-two and
one-half hours per week will be required for all pupils.

The working day is divided into two periods; the first
period from to a. m.; the second from to p.m.

SCHEME OF ORGANIZATION. The school offers full four
years’ course to those wishing to take advantage of it, but
provides an option whereby at the beginning of the third year
a choice may be made between (a) continuing the instruction in the school until the middle of the fourth year, or (b)
continuing the instruction part time in the school and part
time in the trade until the middle of the fourth year.

Upon the successful completion of either of the above
options the candidate for diploma must seek full time employment during the second half of the fourth year, and
must present satisfactory record from his employer.

DEPARTMENT Work. The work of the school is carried
on by departments, each department constituting small
school in itself so far as the shop instruction is concerned.

In general the work of each department consists of )
Shop Practice in manipulative processes and Shop Operations on the Materials of the Trade; Related Technical
Work in Mathematics, Drawing, Trade English, Trade Hygiene, Trade Science and Citizenship.

The Academic department is organized to offer such
non-related subjects as General History, Industrial History,
Literature, Industrial Science, Economics, Mechanics, Mathematics, Athletics and Musie.

METHODS BY WHICH DEPARTMENTS WorkK. Each department is so organized that pupil in securing his training passes through three periods of work.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

The assignment of student to department is based
upon his own choice backed by the parent or guardian, and
is made only after consultation with department head and
the Director of the school.

The first period in the school is the period of All-Shop
Training, during which the student devotes his entire time
to one shop, such as Carpentry, Machine, Pattern or Printing
Shop.

During the first part of this. period the school aims to
give him the work of his trade in an elementary way as a
preparation for the second and more difficult part of this
first period. The pupil acquires to some extent knowledge
of simple operations, the names of tools, and some ability to
do simple jobs connected with his chosen occupation.

The second part of this shop-training period is devoted
to the carrying out of complete project, in which the pupil
is held responsible for the final result.

If after fair test in given shop it ean be determined
that pupil has made mistake in his choice of occupation,
he is allowed to test himself in another line. If it is found
that his first choice is probably the best, he is allowed to continue in the trade chosen.

During both the stages mentioned above, the pupil is
given definite training in Trade Hygiene by means of shop
inspection trips in which he records his observations regarding the management of the shop, the methods of guarding
machines to prevent accidents, and the general condition of
the shop from the standpoint of the health of the workers.
The pupil is also introduced to citizenship training and technical reading through his shop experience.

In the performanee of any task assigned on the project
basis, the pupil gets his order for work from the shop foreman: writes description of the job; has this deseripiion eriticized; makes drawing if ealled for; draws up his specifications: figures the amount of the stock together with cost;
figures the time required to complete the job and the probable cost of labor; secures his material and tools from the

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
proper authorities and carries on his job under the direction
of his shop instructor, and with his approval keeps his time
and job ecard. ,

When the job is completed the result on his job card in
stock and labor is measured against the original estimate of
the pupil.

The detail in method of work varies in different trade
departments in accordance with the different operations involved.

The second period of the pupil's career in the school
may be termed the Shop-Class Room Period. The pupil now
spends part of his time in the class room. The tasks of
both shop and class room are very closely correlated. Mathematics, English, Science and Drawing are approached entirely in the light of their relation to the shop work.

The third period in the school marks distinct change
in the methods used. It may be termed the Purallel Training Perwod. The work of the class room is no longer closely
related to that of the shop, but is organized separately, and
the time is so divided that about half of the pupil’s time is
devoted to shop instruction and half to non-shop and academie subjects.

The shop work during this third period is made to approximate as closely as possible actual conditions in commercial shop. The apprentice is now given Jobs which eall
for the production of number of articles of similar character to be turned out within time limit. Other jobs offering special operations in the trade are planned so that the
pupil may gain an experience similar to that which he may
soon find in the industry.

The aim of the class room work during this third period
is to organize the technical knowledge gained by the pupil
in the shop and class room during the first two periods of
his experience.

DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OF THE HOLYOKE PLAN. By the
provision in the proposed plan of training which Holvoke has
agreed to operate, whereby pupil may eleet to go out on

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

part-time employment after two-year period of training
under instruction, the school finds itself face to face with
the problem of co-operation with the manufacturer and with
organized labor; with the manufacturer so far as the seeuring of job and the supervision of the apprentice is concerned; with organized labor so far as the Imitation and control in the number of apprentices is concerned.

That co-operative attitude on the part of both parties
mentioned above is very much in evidence there can be no
question.

That the employer and employe have common problem
is evident; that the sehool can serve both and is willing to
serve both to the best advantage there is no doubt.

The second distinetive feature of the Holyoke plan provides that eandidate for diploma in the school must
spend the last half of his fourth year in full-time employment in the trade for which he has trained.

That close relation must be maintained between the
emplover and the officials of the school goes without saying,
if this part of the scheme is to be effective.

The State Board of Education has set up an ageney by
means of which the desired co-operation may be secured.
This ageney is the Advisory Committee.

Each trade or oceupation taught the sehool is represented on the Advisory Committee by group of three members, each of whom is locally interested in the trade or oceupation.

The duties of the Advisory Committee are voluntary ;
the members are chosen because of their interest In the problem and beeause of their experience and knowledge of the
conditions existing in the trade which they represent.

Because of their expemence and knowledge of local conditions the Advisory Committee can be of the greatest service in suggesting ways and means by which the co-operation |
of the school and the industry may be effected.

The Advisory Committee being made up of successful
business men and women is therefore in position to offer

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
suggestions regarding the needs of the industries or trades
they represent. :

That the Day School is filling an industrial need in this
city there can be very little doubt. Last year the school had
an enrolment of twenty-eight members. The number enrolled at the present time is ninety-nine.

IV. COURSES OF STUDY FOR DAY SCHOOL.

The following are the departments and courses of study

: in the dav work of the Holyoke Vocational School.
DEPARTMENT OF CARPENTRY AND BUILDING. |
First Year.
Shop Practice Shop Drawing
Shop Mathematics Civics
Trade English Personal Hygiene
(The worker spends of his time on the shop floor.)
Second Year.
Shop Practice Shop Drawing
Shop Mathematics Trade Science
Trade English Industrial History
{The shop work represents about of the school time.)
Third Year,
Shop Practice Mechanics
Mathematics Materials and Tools
English Literature Shop System
Shop Drawing
Fourth Year. ;
Five months in school, five months as apprentice at work.
Shop Practice The school keeps in close touch
, Drawing with shop work of apprentice. If
Specifications work is successful diploma is
English granted at the end of the period.
DEPARTMENT OF MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE.
First Year.
Shop Practice Civics
Shop Drawing Shop Mathematics
Trade English Personal Hygiene

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Second Year.
Shop Practice Industrial History
Shop Drawing Trade Science
English Civics
Mathematics Personal Hygiene
Third Year.
. Shop Practice Materials
Shop Mathematics Economics
English Shop Drawing
 Fourth Year.
Shop Practice Second half year in some indusMathematics trial establishment. Diploma at
Industrial Physics end of this period.
English .
Drawing
DEPARTMENT OF PATTERN MAKING.
‘ First Year.
Shop Practice (including Shop Trade English
Sketching Pattern Maker’s Drawing
Shop Mathematics Civics
Personal Hygiene
Second Year.
Shop Practice Shop Drawing
Shop Mathematics Civics
Trade English Industrial History
. Third Year.
Shop Practice Mechanics
Mathematics Materials and Machinery
English Shop Accounts
Shop Drawing Industrial Science
Fourth Year.
Shop Practice Second half-year spent as an apDrawing prentice in the trade. Diploma as
Specifications in Course  .
English

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
DEPARTMENT OF PRINTING AND BINDING.
First Year.

Composing and Press Work Layout

Arithmetic Spelling

Trade English Civics

Second Year.

Composing and Press Work Designing

English Composition Spelling

Trade Hygiene Hygiene

Third Year.

Shop Practice History of Printing

English Spelling

Materials of Trade

. Fourth Year.

Shop Practice Second half-year in trade

English

Spelling

Printing

Economics

V. EVENING TRADE EXTENSION COURSES FOR
MEN.

These courses form large part.of the activities of the
school and contribute in very definite way to the earning
power of those attending them.

Courses have been offered this year in Carpentry, Cabinet Making, Pattern Making, Bricklaying, Machine Shop
Work, Printing, Paper Making, Electricity, Steam Engineering, Drawing for Carpenters, Drawing for Machinists, and
Decorative Plastering. |

Pattern Making, Printing, Drawing for Machinists and
Decorative Plastering are new courses added during the year.

With the exception of Paper Making and Steam Engineering all trade extension courses have been organized on
the short unit instruction plan.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

The short unit course as used in evening trade extension work is type of instruction consisting of limited number of hours’ work, dealing with specific part of the trade
involved, and so organized that it may be given without reference to what has preceded or what may follow it.

By discovering the immediate needs of group of trade
workers the school is able to organize and arrange its courses
so that instruction may be given which has direct relation
to the day employment.

By means of such courses student in evening trade extension work may select the particular unit of work that is
of most immediate value to him as meaus to the next step
forward in the trade, and may leave until later date that
Which has remote value.

From the experiences the men have had in seleeting their
courses under the unit svstem, for the first time this vear, it
is beheved that clearer idea of the value of the unit course
is being developed.

Under the old method of instruction where the courses
were laid out to cover number of vears, account was not
taken of the fact that the great majority of the men did not
remain long enough in the school to complete such course,
and that by dropping out much of the value of the course was
lost.

The short unit course covers this diffeulty im two ways:
First, by making the course short, so that it may be completed
within the time the school ean hold the student: seeond, by
presenting definite series of problems dealing with one phase
of the trade only. .

By thus limiting the clements in course to few speeifie things the student gives his entire attention to these instead of dividing his time as he would in general course.

It is evident from the experience of this session that these

. four valuable results have already been established:

 The student gets what he needs and gets it in the

shortest possible time.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  

 The work is more concentrated.

 The efficiency of the teaching is increased.

 The attendance is steadier.

It is probable that if such series of unit courses can
be continued, and the pupil secures satisfaction from the first
unit he is very lkely to seek the next unit and thus remain
in the school longer than under the general course.

Before establishing any unit course the needs of the industry are discovered by the head of department or by the
Instructor. By investigating the needs of the candidates,
men having similar need are grouped together and given
instruction based upon their common experience.

The mature worker in the trade, by reason of his experience, usually knows best what he needs, and this situation is
met more effectively by the unit method of instruetion than
by any means vet tried.

The following unit courses will make elear the effort
made by the different departments of the school to care for
the needs of men already emploved during the day in the
trade, and will serve to show how any man engaged in any
of the occupations offered may increase his efficleney and
consequently his earning power by attendance upon given
course :

UNIT COURSES IN CARPENTRY AND BUILDING -- .
Course [. Stair Building.

January to February  .

a. Common Straight Stairs.

b. Platform Stairs.

c. Winding and Circular Stairs.

d. Construction and Finish of Open Staircases.

e. Construction and Finish of Closed Staircases.

Course II. Roof Framing.

January to February  .

a. Pitches and Degrees of All Practical Roofs.

b. How to find the “cuts” and “lengths” of Rafters with the Steel

Square.
c. Roof Construction.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Course III. Inside Finishing.
January to February  .
a. Setting Door Jambs.
b. Fitting and Hanging Doors.
c. Sliding Doors and Construction of Jambs.
d. Casing Doors. ,
e. Casing Window Frames.
f. Building China Closets and Cupboards.
UNIT COURSES FOR BRICKLAYERS— ,
Course I. Layout Work. f. Heading Bonds.
November to December  g. Raking Bonds.
a. Batter Boards. h. Diagonal Bond.
b. Use of Leveling Instrument. Joints.
c. Boning Rod. Course IV. Arch Construction.
d. Establishing Lines. January to February  .
.. Starting Leads. a. Semi-Circular.
f. Pulling the Line. b. The Straight Arch.
g. Problems in Layout. c. Segment Arch.
Course II. Foundations. d. Relieving Arch.
December to December  e. Edhptical Arch.
 f. Three-Centered Arch.
a. Excavations.
b. Leveling. Course V. Measurement of
c. Trenching. Brickwork.
d. Timbering. March to March  .
e. Footings. a. Foot Run.
f. Soils: Rock; Gravel;  Foot Super, or Square.
( Clay; Sand. c. Cubing. )
Course TI. Bonding. Course VI. Materials.
January to January  March to March  .
a. Single Flemish. a. Bricks.
b. Double Flemish. b. Sand.
c. English. c. Water.
d. English Cross. d. Lime Mortar.
e. Dutch. e. Cement Mortar.
UNIT COURSES IN MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE— .
Course I. Making Fits. b. Straight Turn Fit.
January to February  c. Tight and Running Fit.
a. Straight Bore Fit. d. Shrink and Force Fit.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Course II. Screw Cutting. Course VI. Universal Grinding.
January to January  January  to February  .
a. V-Thread. a. Handling of Machine.
b. Square Thread. b. Internal Grinding.
ec. Acme Thread. c. External Grinding. 
d. Grinding Tools. d. Surface Grinding.
e. Setting Tools. ;
f. Change Gears and Manipula- Course VII. Shop Arithmetic
tion of Machine. for Machinists.
Course II. Lathe Work. January to February  .
January to February  a. Pulley Speed and Sizes.
a. Lathe Work on Tool Making. b. Gear Speeds Tra;
b. Making of Taps, Reamers c. Simple Gear rains.
and Cutters. d. Compound Gearing.
c. Use of the Taper, Backing Cutting Speeds of Lathe.
Off and Relieving Attach- f. Cutting Speeds of Planer.
ment. g. Change Gears for Screw
Course IV. Milling Machine. Thread Cutting.
January to February  h. paper Turning.
, i. Indexing.
a. Spiral Work on Cutters.  
b. Bevel Gearing. Course VIII. Blue Print ReadCourse V. General Milling ing for Machinists.
Machine Work. January to February  .
January to February  a. Shop Sketching.
a. Taps. b. Analysis of Assembly Drawb. Reamers. ee
c. Cutters. c. Conventional Shop Methods.
d. Use of Dividing Head.
UNIT COURSES IN PRINTING— .
Course I. Stone Work. Course III.—Advanced Press
January to January  Work.
January to February  January to February  .
February to March  February to March  .
Course II. Press Work. Course IV. Job Composition.
January to January n. January to February  .
January to February  February to March  .
February to March  .

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
UNIT COURSES IN ELECTRICIT Y— ,
Course I. General Wiring. Course III. Motors.
October to November  January to February  .
. Course II. Interior Telephone a. Magnetism.
Systems. b. Permanent Magnets.
December to December  c. Electro-Magnets.
a. Transmitters. d. Applications,
b. Receivers e. Direct Current Motors.
c. Coils. f. Alternating Current Motors.
d. Condensers. Course IV. Moving Picture-e@. Circuits. Operators’ Course.
f. Wiring.
COURSE IN STEAM ENGINEERING— .
 Work for  nd Class Firemen.
 Work for  st Class Firemen.
 Work for  rd Class Engineers.
 Work for  nd Class Engineers.
’  Work for  st Class Engincers.
UNIT COURSES FOR STEAM ENGINEERS PROPOSED FOR
 .
Course I. Beilers. c. Governing.
a. Construction of different  d. Indicating.
. “pes case Course IV. Corliss and Autoe-.
a. Figuring Ethciency of Joints. So.
. Inatic Engines,
ce. Bracing and Staying.
Sate-Working Pressure. Different Types.
h. Valve Setting-—-Governing.
Course IT. Boiler Accessories, oes Bo
c. Indicating and Computing.
a. Feed Pumps. d. Horse Power.
b. Feed Piping.
c. Feed Water Heaters Course V. A. Steam Piping.
d. Boiler Compounds. a. How Located. ;
e. Scale and Its ltfects. b. Figuring Size for Certain
Work.
Course TN. A. Air Compres- er
sors. ce. Covering of.
; oo, d. Loss from Radiation.
a. Construction and Working of.
Se, B. Steam Traps.
B. Plain Slide-Valve Engine.
a. Construction and Working of. a. Where Located.
, b. Construction of.
b. Valve Setting.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
COURSE IN PAPERMAKING— .

 Treatment of Rags.

 Beating.

 Colors. .

 Engine Sizing.

 Paper Trade Chemistry.

UNIT COURSES IN PATTERN MAKING— .
Course I. Bench Work. Course IV. Boxed Work.
a. Flat. a. Machine.
b. Irregular. b. Structural.
Course IJ. Lathe Work. Course V. Follow Board Work.
a. Solid. Course VI. Skeleton Work.
b. Split.
Course IIT. Combination Work. Course VII. Sweep Work.
a. Flat. Course VII. Three-Part Flask
b. Irregular. Work.
COURSE IN DECORATIVE PLASTERING— .,
(Fight weeks course; two nights week.)

 Making Running Moulds. Making and Fixing Key Runming and Mitering Cor- Stone.

nice.  Making Model of  Greck
 Making Models of Base Fret Work.

and Capital.  Making Model of Dental
 Making Piece Moulds of Ornament.

Base and Capital.  Making Model of Modilhon
 Casting Base and Capital. Block.

 Running Pilaster.  Piece Moulding and Casting
 Turning an Arch. of Modiliion Block.
VI. EVENING PRACTICAL ARTS CLASSES
 FOR WOMEN.

These classes are organized for the specific purpose of
Increasing the efficiency of home-making and home management in matters relating to dressmaking, cooking, millinery,
embroidery, home nursing and other home arts and science.

Classes in Cooking and Dressmaking have been suecessfully carried on in ecomnection with the Evening High

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

School for several years. With the transfer of these classes
to the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education certaim
modifications and extensions of the work became necessary
in order to comply with the State requirements for reimbursement.

The courses of study, organized on the short unit basis,
were so arranged that definite phase of the subject could
be presented in given period of time. The content of each
short course has been planned to meet the particular aim of
the group of persons electing it, and is based very largely
upon common experience found among the candidates.
As far as possible, candidates of about the same age and experience are grouped together.

The largest number allowed in class with one teacher
has been fixed this year at fifteen; the smallest number with
which class may be established is eight.

Candidates for enrolment in any class must show that
their motive in joining the class is serious one. They are
also required to give some assurance that their attendance
in the class will probably exd seventy-five per cent of the
nights for which they enrol.

All classes meet two mghts per week and spend two
hours per night in class instruction. |

Any woman seventeen years of age or over may attend
the classes in Practical Arts, and may pass on from one course
to another or drop out at the end of any unit course. It is
possible to prod in this way because each course in itself
is separate and complete body of organized knowledge
and work. For example, it  not necessary for woman
who has had course in bread-making to repeat this work;
she is given an opportunity to add to her knowledge of
home-making by taking course in breakfasts, or course
in dinners, or luncheons. |

A continuous course extending over several years is undesirable from the fact that many candidates for admission dlready possess good deal of elementary knowledge of
the work desired. If such candidates are required to reREPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
peat this work much valuable time, which should be devoted
to advancement, is lost.

| The short unit course allows candidate to enter the
school and make start where her previous knowledge and
experience place her.

The number of courses offered has been increased by
the establishing of classes in Millinery, Embroidery and
Home Nursing. It is certain that genuine need existed for
the work offered in these classes. The attendance has been
unusually high and the character of the work accomplished, aside from the material results, is sufficient evidence that the
opportunities offered in these courses have justified their establishment.

The following selected unit courses will serve to show
the definiteness with which the work has been planned in
order that immediate results may be secured from the work
of each lesson:

A UNIT COURSE IN DRESSMAKING.

Lesson  Measurements.

Lesson  Pattern Reading.

Lesson  Changing Patterns—Testing Individual Measurements.

Lesson  Placing and Cutting.

Lesson  Basting.

Lesson  Threading Machine (Practice Work).

Lesson  Fitting.

TWO LESSONS FROM UNIT COURSE IN COOKING.
(LUNCHEON UNIT.)
LUNCHEONS.
LESSON I. (January .)
Delmonico Potatoes.
Toast.
Cocoa.
Tarts.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Delmonico Potatoes.
  c. cold diced potatoes c. white sauce, No.  
Yc. buttered crumbs c. grated cheese .
IZ t. pepper |

Grate cheese, sprinkle with pepper, and dissolve in sauce. Put
potatoes in baking dish, pour over sauce, lifting carefully with fork
until sauce is well distributed. Cover with crumbs and brown delicately in moderate oven.

Toast.

Cut stale bread in uniform slices. Toast quickly until brown on
each side in broiler or over coals. Toast may be buttered, if desired,
before serving.

Cocoa.
  t. cocoa  c. scalded milk
 t. sugar f. g. salt
  c. boiling water

Mix sugar, salt and cocoa with boiling water. Cook minutes.

Add milk, and when well heated beat minutes with Dover egg beater.
Tarts.
  c. flour t. salt
 T. butter cold water
 T. lard

Chop shortening into flour and salt. When like coarse meal add
cold water to make very stiff dough. Roll to 'g-in. thickness, cut in
small rounds to line muffin pans. Prick several times, and bake in
hot oven until brown. Fall with jam, marmalade or jelly.

LESSON VII. (February .)
Golden Rod Eggs.
Dressed Celery.
Cream Dressing.
Parker House Rolls.
Golden Rod Eggs.
  hard boiled eggs t. salt
  T. butter  t. pepper
  T. flour slices toast
 c. milk parsley

Make thin white sauce with butter, flour, milk and seasonings.

Separate yolks from whites of eggs, chop whites fine and add them to

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
the sauce. Cut slices of toast in halves, lengthwise. Arrange on platter and pour over the sauce. Force the yolks through potato ricer,
or strainer, sprinkling over the top. Garnish with parsley and  remaining toast cut in points.

Dressed Celery. ‘

Wash, scrape and cut stalks of celery in thin slices. Mix with
cream dressing No.  .

Cream Dressing No.  .

  T. salt egg slightly beaten

\ T. mustard T. melted butter

  T. sugar cream

 c. vinegar

Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook
over boiling water, very slowly, stirring constantly, until mixture
thickens; strain and cool.

Parker House Rolls. .
 c. scalded milk, or T. butter
  c. scalded milk and  t. sugar
Yc. boiling water t. salt
. yeast cake mixed with c. lukewarm water.
About c. flour, or enough to knead.

Put hot milk, salt, sugar and shortening into mixing bowl and
when the mixture  lukewarm add yeast and flour until it is stiff
enough to knead. Knead it. Let it rise to double its bulk. Shape .
into balls, put them into buttered pan, cover, and let rise again to
double their bulk. Press through the center, almost cutting the ball,
with the floured handle of wooden spoon. Brush half with melted
butter, fold the other half over it and press them together. J.et rise
again and bake ten or fifteen minutes in hot over.

A UNIT COURSE IN MILUINERY. (THIRD UNIT.)

Renovating and Trimming Old IIats.

Lesson I. Teaching how to clean, steam and renovate
velvet (new method), each girl practicing on her own material.

Lesson IT. Changing style of old shape by reconstrueting with buckram, and strengthening same.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Lesson III. Demonstration lesson on cleaning white or
other light colored hats.
Lesson IV. Binding and facing of felt hats.
Lesson V. Wiring of trimmings and arrangement of
same. )
Lesson VI. Making of buckles.
Lesson VII. Steaming of old flowers and feathers.
Lesson VIII. Trimming and lining of hats. ;
A UNIT COURSE IN EMBROIDERY.
Lesson I. Outline stitch, on practice cloth supplied by
the school.
Lesson II. Eyelet stitch, also on practice cloth.
Lesson III. Padding and satin stitch.
Lesson IV. Buttonhole stitch.
Lessons to X, inclusive. Stamped work.
A UNIT COURSE IN HOME NURSING.
Teething.
 Order of Appearance of Teeth.
 Reasons for Delay.
a. Rickets |
b. Previous illness |
. c. Poor feeding
 Symptoms of Teething.
a. Often none
b. Restlessness .
c. Fever
d. Refusal of feedings
e. Drooling
f. Sucking of fists
 Diagnosis.
a. Appearance of gums should he chief factor in diagnosis.
b. Importance of looking carefully for all other possible
causes of above symptoms before assuming they are
due to teething.
 Treatment.
a. Cleanliness of mouth.

| REPORT OF TITE VOCATIONAL SCILOOL  :
b. Rubbing of gums—when indicated and when not indicated.
; c. Dangers of paregoric, soothing syrups, etc.
VII. THE SHORT UNIT PLAN OF INSTRUCTION
VERSUS THE LONG UNIT.

The state-aided evening vocational school gives special
training for the occupations in which its students work during the day. It is an extension school which supplements day
work and experience. It extends the special trade knowledge
of the worker. machinist who works all day at lathe
may become skillful operator of milling machine or may
acquire knowledge of machine shop mathematics. housewife may learn cooking in selected branches, or certain phases
of dressmaking which she does not understand. Consequently
a school of this kind must be organized differently from the
general evening high or elementary school. Students should
not be grouped, classes should not be organized according to
previous schooling, age and desire to take long courses in
general subjects. The subjects taught and the manner of
presenting them should not be based on the day school or
the general evening school scheme—that is, on the long unit
plan.

A special organization is needed for special students who
have special needs. This organization is the Short Unit Plan,
in which each course consists of number of definite short
units of training ‘‘closely connected with the occupations
followed by the members of the class and ministering to definite want of the group taught.’’ Students may select the
units which they consider helpful and omit those in which
they have had sufficient previous instruction or experience.

The evening work in the Holyoke Vocational School is
organized on the Short Unit Plan. The effect on attendance
alone (as indicated below), not to mention numerous educational advantages, justifies the adopting of this plan.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
. EVENING TRADE EXTENSION CLASSES.
I. Average percentage of attendance in ten classes run on the Short
Unit Plan— .
Average percentage of attendance in three classes run on the
Long Unit Plan— .
Increase secured by operating on Short Unit Plan— .
II. Average percentage of attendance in two best classes run on
Short Unit Plan— .
Average percentage of attendance in two best classes run on
“ Long Unit Plan— .
Increase secured by operating the Short Unit Plan— ,
III. Average percentage of attendance in two poorest classes run on.
Short Unit Plan— .
Average percentage of attendance in two poorest classes run on |
. Long Unit Plan— ,
, Increase secured by operating the Short Unit Plan— !
IV. Average percentage of attendance for three months in eleven
classes run on Short Unit Plan— :
Average percentage of attendance for three months in three
classes run on Long Unit Plan— .
Increase secured by operating the Short Unit Plan— .
V. Average percentage of attendance for three months in two best
classes run on Short Unit Plan— ]
Average percentage of attendance for three months in two best |
classes run on Long Unit Plan— .
Increase secured by operating the Short Unit Plan— .
PRACTICAL ARTS CLASSES.
All Classes Organized on Short Unit Plan.
I. Average percentage of attendance per class for October—
  Classes ...         etter esceseses  
Highest percentage of attendance given by any class for
October .o    cc cv    ececcensetccscceseseseses  
Lowest percentage of attendance given by any class for
October wi.          tees te scessees   
II. Average percentage of attendance per class for November 
—  ClAaSSESec    rece cree ees  sec ss |
Highest percentage of attendance given by any class for |
November cw...         ncteceseesscesseres  
' Lowest percentage of attendance given by any class for |
November v.  ence tcc   sec ccsesees 

REPORT OF TILE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
III. Average percentage of attendance per class for December

—  classeS ....           te   te   ceccess  

Highest percentage of attendance given by any class for

December .......  vec ce  tee cercscc   

Lowest percentage of attendance given by any class for

December  ... ec cc  cect cence   ence ence  ns  

VIII. CONCLUSION.

In econeluding this part of this report the writers wish to
thank the State officers, Mr. Small and Mr. Allen, and various
city officials and departments for their valuable help and encouragement in giving the Holvoke Vocational School good
start. It seems sure that the Vocational School is solidly
established, capable of further successful development, and
sure to do much good for the people of [lolyoke.

| Respectfully submitted, FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary,
WILLIAM H. WHITNEY, Director.

PART IV.

STATISTICAL REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY
To the Board of Trustces for Vocational Education:

Your Secretarv submits the following statistical report
on finance, attendance, earning power, accounts, age of pupils, membership, occupations and other matters:

TABLE I. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SHOWING RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.

(This covers day and evening classes for the year ending

November .)

Receipts.

Appropriation ..................+ 

Transfer from School Board ......  

Other sources ..........      

Total receipts ............... .. ——————— 
Expenditures.

Secretary oo...          

Director ...  ...  eens  
Instruction oo...  ...      

Clerical service ..........  

Text books  ...          of. 

Supphes oo...         

Printing and advertising ......... :
Office expenses ............  

Cartage oo...     ,  

Travelling ...  ...     

Exhibit wo...  ...    

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Equipment -..............  ce   
Setting machinery ...............  
Replacements ................  
Total expenditures ............... ————— 
Balance, November  ...... 
Note. In addition to expenditures in Table I, the School Board furnished
clerical service, janitor service and supplies amounting to The city,
through special fund, spent  for equipment. The Board of Public
Works furnished fuel, light, power and water amounting to .
TABLE II. TOTAL EXPENDITURES FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
Vocational School Board of
Account Board Public Works
Director ................ +.- Secretary ..............      
Day teachers ................. |
Evening teachers ..............  
Clerical service, day .......... 
Clerical service, evening .......  
Janitor service, day ............  
Janitor service, evening .......  
Setting machinery, ete..........  
Text books, day ..........:...  
Supplies, day ................  
Supplies, evening .............  
Equipment (replacement), day..  
Equipment (replacement), even  
Janitor supplies ..............  
Cartage of supplies, day .......  
Printing and advertising, day..  
Printing and advertising, evening  
Office expenses, day ...........  
Office expenses, evening ....... ,
Travelling, day ...............  
Travelling, evening ............  

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL |
Exhibit expenses, day ......... |
Equipment ...................  
Fuel, day ..........       
Fuel, evening ................  
Gas, evening ...............  
Lighting, evening .............  
Power, day ............ e.  
Power, evening ................  
Water, day ....... ce        
Water, evening ...............  
— |
Expenditures ................+ 
Sum of expenditures as above ............. 
Expended from original equipment account..  
Expended from special equipment account...  
Total expenditures ..........  +  |
TABLE HI. ESTIMATES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER :
  |
Salaries:
Secretary wo...   ees 
Director ......  ...        
Day school teachers ..........  
Evening school teachers ......  
Clerical work ..... .....  
Janitor SeCrviC@ .......      
Total salaries ................ ———— 
Supplies:
Janitor and building supplies. 
Day school supplies ...........  
Evening school supphes ......  
Text books .......  eens  
Printing and advertising ......  
Freight, express and cartage....  
Office expenses ........... .. |
|

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
- Travelling expenses ...........  
Panama-Pacifie exhibit .:......  
Unelassified .................  
Equipment ............... -- .
Total supplies ................ —————— 
Total estimates .............-. 
Less receipts and reimbursement,  
Actual amount requested ......... 
TABLE IV. AGE AND MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS.
Day School for Boys,
Age  Special Average Age years
Number Membership  
Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men.
 
to to to Over
Age Average Age years
Number Membership  
Evening Practical Arts Classes for Women.
  .
to to to Over
Age Average Age ycars
Number Membership  
TABLE V. CLASSIFIED WEEKLY WAGES AS REPORTED BY MASSACHUSETTS BUREAU OF STATISTICS.
(Manufactures of Holyoke,  .)
Persons
Weckly wages paid Males years Females years under  
in Holyoke of age and over of age and over years of age Total
Under 
$  but under 
$  but under 
$  but under )
$  but under 
$  but under 
$  but under 
$  but under 

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

Persons

Weekly wages paid Males years Females years under  
in Hlolyoke of age and over of age and over years of age Total
$  but under  
$  but under 
$  but under 
$  but under  
$  but under 
$  but under 
$  but under  
$  but under 
$  but under 
$  but under 
$  and over  

Totals  
TABLE VI. EVENING TRADE EXTENSION STUDENTS CLASSIFIED BY

) DAY EMPLOY MENTS.

(This list includes two hundred and ninety-one men employed during the day and rated in the trade as apprentices,
journeyvmen or foremen. )

Occupations Number Occupations Number
Bricklayers Helpers  
Cabinet Makers Oilers  
Carpenters Coal Passers  
Carpenter Helpers Janitors  
Clerks Machinists  
Compositors Inspectors  
Electrician’s Assistants Tool Makers  

Wiremen Lathe Hands  

Linemen Drill Hands  

Repairmen Machine Hands  

Moving Picture Operators Apprentices  

Metermen Repairmen  

Unemployed Pipe Cutters  
Decorators Molders  
Engineers. Stationary and Moving Picture Operators

Steam (See Electricians)

Firemen Painters  

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Occupations Number Occupations Number
Papermakers Pattern Makers  
Backtenders Plasterers  
Beatermen Printing Pressmen  
Finishers Printer’s Apprentices  
Loftmen Stone Hands  
Machine Tenders Job and Cylinder Press
Bleach Mixers Feeders  
Chemists Cylinder Press Feeders  
Finishing Foremen Unclassified Printers  
Rag Room Foremen Steamfitters  
Reel Boys Miscellaneous  
Superintendents Total  
TABLE VII. STUDENTS IN EVENING PRACTICAL ARTS CLASSES
CLASSIFIED BY DAY OCCUPATIONS.

Occupations Number Occupations Number
Burlers Nurses  
Bookkeepers Pickers  
Binders Plater Girls  
Calender Girls Pagers  
Counters  Press Feeders  
Cutter Girls Quillers  
Corders Reelers  
Combers Strippers  
Clerks Sewers  

, Cashiers Students  
Case Makers  Stenographers  
Doffers Saleswomen  
Drawers Sorters  
Dryers Sealers  
Envelope Makers Spoolers  
Folders Spinners  
Finishers Speeder Tenders  
General Helpers Twisters  
Garment Folders Teachers  
Housework Thread Packers ‘
Inspectors  Typists  
Labelers Transfer Girls  

- Loom Girls Waitresses  
Laundresses  Warpers  
Lunch Room Managers Winders  
Milliners Weavers  
Matrons Total  

PART V. |
INVENTORY OF EQUIPMENT.
The equipment of the various shops and departments is
as follows:
The equipment of the Department of Carpentry and
Building, used also for Pattern Making consists of :
  Woodworkers’ Benches .
  Tool Room equipped with small tools for joinery, carpentry, pat- |
tern-making and cabinet work for benches r
  Universal Saw Table (American)
  Jointer (Crescent) |
  Single Cylinder Surfacer (Fay Egan)
  Universal Boring Machine (Crescent)
  Band Saw (Crescent)
  Power Mortiser (Fay Egan)
  Foot Mortiser
  Grind Stone
  Emery Grinder
  Group of Six Speed Lathes (F. E. Wells)
  Tenoning Machine ;
  Bench Trimmer
  Shaping Machine
Individual Electric Motors for the various machines. |
The Machine Shop is equipped with: |
  No. Brown Sharpe Universal Grinder
  No. Brown Sharpe Universal Milling Machine
  No. Cincinnati Universal Milling Machine
 /”x Whitcomb Planer ;
. Pratt Whitney Lathe, Taper and Relieving Attachment
  Reed Lathes, Compound Rest .
  —- Reed Lathe, Rise and Fall Rest
  Robbins Lathes, Compound Rest
  Robbins Lathe, Compound Rest, Taper Attachment
  Robbins Lathe, Rise and Fall Rest
  American Shaper
  Sliding Head Prentice Drill
|

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  Snyder Sensitive Drill
 Reed Speed Lathe
  Wells Bros. Cutter Grinder
 Blount Wet Grinder
  No. Blount Dry Grinder .
  Star Power Hack Saw
  No. Greenard Arbor Press
  Stewart Standard Combination Furnace’
Anvils and Vises
  H. P. Electric Motor
  Tool Room with the usual equipment of wrenches, levels, gauges,
drills, scales, calipers, hammers, files, blades, other small tools,
etc. |
The Printing Department is equipped with:
 Style  -B, Colt’s Armory Press, complete with Brake
  C. P. Gordon Press with full-length Fountain
  Golding Job Press, complete with Brayer Fountain, Duplex
Distributer
  Pearl Presses No.  without Fountain or Power
  Electric Motors for Presses
 C. P. (Lever) Paper Cutter
  Style Boston Staple Binder
  No. Golding Lead and Rule Cutter ;
  Double City Stands with Racks for Cases
  Eureka Lead Rack
  Half-pint Benzine Cans
  No. Benzine Brushes
  Dozen Hemphill Quoins  of No. and of No.  )
  Hemphill Quoin Keys
  Labor Saving Reglet Case No.  Complete
Various kinds of Type, Spaces, Quads, Leads, Slugs, Brass Rule,
Lining, etc.
  All Brass Riveted Galleys, Assorted Sizes
  Model No. Roberts Wheel Numbering Machine
  Full Size Cal. Job Cases
  Job Sticks
  Pairs Roller Bearers ,
Each Drafting Room is equipped with:
  Table
  Desk
  Chairs

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
  Drafting Tables
  Stools |
  Sets of Case Instruments
  Drafting Boards
  Tee Squares
  Triangles Triangles Set French Curves
  Blue Print Frame
The equipment of room for Steam Engineering is:
  Hewes Phillips Corliss Engine
  Vertical Slide Valve Engine
  Fleming-Harrisburg Engine ,
  Deane Duplex Steam Pump |
  Nason Steam Trap ,
  Hancock Inspirators
  Anderson Steam Trap ,
  Mason Steam Reducing Valve
  Ashton Safety Valve
  each of the following: Riveted Boiler Seam, Lap Joint, Quadruple
Butt and Strap Joint
  Pemberthy Injector
  Ejectors !
  -—  ”” Gate Valve
  Set of Sectional Piston Packing
  Set of Sectional Rod Packing
The Electrical Room  equipped with the following:
  H. P. Induction Motor, Single Phase, R. P. M., or  
Volts, or Amp. per Ter., Belted to D. C. Dynamo,  
K. W., Volts, Amp. R. P. M. Field Current regulated
by Field Rheostat, Volts, Ohms. Amp. !
  Westinghouse D. C. Dynamo Motor, Volts, R. P. M.
  Weston A. C. Voltmeter
  Weston A. C. Ammeter
  Induction Coil
  Bank of Lights
  Wheatstone Bridges
  Resistance Boxes
  Wireless Spark Coil
  Wireless Auto Cohcrer
  Weston A. C. Portable Voltmeter

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL Pe

  Weston A. C. Portable Ammeter
  Experimental Dynamo
  Experimental Motor
  Student’s Volt Ammeters
  German Silver Resistance Units
  Mirror Galvanometers
  Gasoline Torches

Bells, Buzzers, Annunciator

Switches, Fuses

Sounders, Kegs, Relays

Electric Soldering Iron, Cleats, Insulators, Wire

Dry Cells and other small equipment

The equipment for Class in Bricklaying is:
  Mason Trowels
  Pointing Trowel
  Jointer
  Plumb Bobs
 Straight Edge
  Rubbing Stone
  Sand Screen, Mesh
  Mortar Box
  Mortar Hoe
  Water Pails .
  Square Shovel
  Pair Trammel Points
Equipment for Class in Paper Making:

The Class in Paper Making uses the lantern of the Day High
School for its lecture work, and one of the classrooms in the Day Vocational School. It also has the use of part of the chemical laboratory of the American Writing Paper Company for demonstration work
in chemistry.

The Class in Decorative Plastering  equipped with the

following :
  -quart Pails or Buckets
  Claw Hammers
 Straight Edge
  Mortar Board Feet Square
  Files
  Carpenter Benches
  Tool Chest ;

Small Tools for Students

;
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL |
Equipment in Practical Arts: ;
. {
The Classes in Practical Arts use the equipment of the Day High |
School and additionally have the following equipment: l
Bags for storage of unfinished work in Dressmaking
A limited supply of dishes for the Classes in Cooking ,
The Classes in Millinery and Embroidery use the tables and chairs ,
of Room in High School building
The Class in Home Nursing uses Room and also has the use of
the equipment of the Central Milk Station of the Holyoke
Infant Hygiene Association.
Other equipment and furniture as follows:
Office. |
  Office Desk and Chair !
  Typewriter Desk and Chair
  Typewriter, Underwood !
  Writing Table
  Filing Cabinets
  Local Telephone
  Intercommunicating Telephone :
  Chairs
  Bookcase ,
Teachers’ Room. :
  Large Table and Chairs |
Bookcases, etc., to be built in shops
Assembly Hall.
(Also used as recitation room.)
  Desk
  Chairs
  Chairs for Pupils
Class Room.
  Desk ,
  Chairs
  Tablet Arm Chairs

, PART VI.

, AUTHORIZED TEXT BOOKS.

The following lists comprise text books, reference books, |
catalogs, etc., adopted by the Board of Trustees or recommended for use in the day and evening classes:

DEPARTMENT OF CARPENTRY AND BUILDING.
Reference Books.
Author Title
King Inside Fintshing
King Carpentry and Building
King Flements of Construction
Radford Estimating and Contracting
Park Wood Working
Catalogs
| Oliver Machinery Co.
American Wood Working Machinery
Co.
J. A. Fay Egan Co.
DEPARTMENT OF MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE.
Reference Books.
Smith Elements of Machine Work
Smith Principles of Machine Work
Brown Sharpe Treatise on Gearing
Brown Sharpe Treatise on Milling Machine Work
‘ Brown Sharpe Treatise on Grinding
Colonial Steel Co. Treatise on Steel
Civic Planer Co. Treatise on Planers
So. Bend Lathe Co. Treatise on Lathes
“Machinery” Machinery’s Reference Series
Foote Bros. Gear Problems
Inter. Text Book Co. International Library of Technology
of Books
Palmer Practical Mathematics, Part  
Babbitt Working Drawing
Breckenbridge-Mersereau-Moore Shop Problems— Mathematics

q
'
POU REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Author Title
Wentworth-Smith Vocational Algebra
Tolman Hygiene for the Worker :
Colvin-Cheney Machine Shop Arithmetic
Inter. Text Book Co. Mechanics’ Hand Book |
“American Machinist” American Machinist Hand Book
Colonial Steel Co. Tool Steel
Catalogs
Brown Sharpe Mfg. Co.
L. S. Starrett
Niles, Bement Pond
Sellers
Dodge Mfg. Co. )
Pratt Whitney |
Union Twist Drill Co.
Morse Twist Drill Co.
Carnegie Steel Co.
J. Russell Co.
DEPARTMENT OF PATTERN MAKING.
Reference Books.
Author Title
Purfield Wood Pattern Making
Richards Foundry Practice
Stimpson Foundry Work ;
West American Foundry Practice
Palmer Foundry Practice
Holton Shop Mathematics
Moore Shop Problems in Mathematics
Catalogs
J. Russell Co. |
J. A. Fay Egan Co.
Oliver Machinery Co.
Cutter Wood Supply Co.
Skinner Chucks
Union Chucks
Power Transmission Machinery |
The Dodge Wood Split Pulley
The Ashton Valve Co.
The Seneca Falls Mfg. Co.
The J. G. Blount Mfg. Co.
Charles Buck

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
DEPARTMENT OF PRINTING AND BINDING.
Reference Books.

Author Title
Knox-Heath English Grammar
American Hand Book of Printing
The American Manual of Press
Work
Practical Typography
. Magazines
Inland Printer
American Printer
Arts and Crafts
Printing Art
Catalogs
American Type Founders Co. Specimen Book
Hansen Type Foundry Co. Specimen Book
GENERAT, USE.
Reference Books.
Dunlop and Denman Apprenticeship and Child Labor
Carroll D. Wright The Apprenticeship System
Gibbins Industrial History of England
Price English Commerce and Industry
Bulletins of National Society for Industrial Education
Forman Stories of Useful Inventions
Forman Advanced Civics
Garner Government in the United States
Ashley American Government
Dunn The Community and the Citizen
Guitteau Preparing for Citizenship
Parton Captains of Industry .
Matthews Introduction to American Literature
Halleck History of American Literature
Halleck History of English Literature
Scott Quentin Durward
Cooper The Pathfinder
Catalogs
Crosby Steam Gage Valve Co. Globe and Engle Valves |
Wickes Boiler Co. Modern Steam Indicators
Babcock Wilcox Co. Steam, Generation and Use
Hodgson Practical Bricklaying

|
|
|
|
I
|
|
 PART VIL
ORGANIZATION—MARCH .
William H. Whitney, Director Day and Evening School,  Hampshire St.
Civies, Industrial History, Supervision |
State Approval
MeDonald School of Mechanical Seience, Canada
Sibley College of Mechanical Engineering, Cornell University
Columbia University |
Eric G. Johnson, Day and Evening School, ,
  Orehard St. ,
Machine Shop Practice, Drawing, Shop Mathe- ,
matics, Trade Science
State Approval
Foreman, J. G. Blount Mfg. Co., Everett, Mass.
Instructor, Everett Evening Industrial School
Instructor, Wentworth Institute, Boston
Edwin C. Knapp, Day and Evening School, Daviston St., Springfield, Mass. :
Carpentry and Building, Mathematics, Trade
English, Shop Drawing :
State Approval
General Contractor for vears
Trade Teacher, Springfield Vocational School |
Alden T. Stubbs, Day and Evening School,  ,C  ,
  Columbus Ave. |
Pattern Making, Drawing, Shop Mathematics,
Athleties
State Approval
Six years apprenticeship in job and pattern shop

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Instructor of Apprentices in Mechanical
Drawing, Everett High School
Instructor in Shop Drawing and Blue Print
Reading, Everett Evening Industrial
School
Instructor, Rainsford Island School, Boston
William F. Grady, Day and Evening School, Columbus Ave.
Printing, Trade English, Arithmetic, Design
State Approval
Wilson H. Lee Publishing Co., New Haven,
Conn.
Head of Printing Dept., Boardman Apprentice
Shops, New Haven
Extension Work, Yale University
 Charles E. Dawson, Day and Evening School, Ferguson Place .
Machine Shop Practice, Trade Hygiene, Shop
Mathematies  ,
State Approval
Machinist, J. G. Blount Mfg. Co., Everett,
Mass.
Asst. Instructor in Machine Shop Practice, Ever- ,
ett Evening Industrial School vear
Asst. Instructor in Machine Shop Practice, |
Wentworth Institute year
Frank M. O’Neil, Evening School,  per eve.
  No. East St. .
Bricklaying, Drawing
State Approval
General Contractor
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
John F. Shea, Evening School, per eve.
  Chestnut St.
Presswork .

|
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
State Approval
M. J. Doyle Printing Co., years |
Eureka Ruling Binding Co., year
Foreman of Apprentices, White &
. Wyckoff Mfg. Co., years
Thomas L. Batzel, Evening School, per eve.
| Hampshire St.
Steam Engineering
State Approval
Stationary Fireman, years
Locomotive Fireman and Engineer, years
Stationary Engineer, vears |
Employed by the National Needle Co., |
Springfield
Emploved by the American Writing
Paper Co.
Employed by the Parsons Paper Co.
Thomas F. Gibbons, Evening School, per eve.
  Liberty St., Springfield |
Firemen’s Licenses
State Approval
Asst. Engineer, Tremont Suffolk Mills, |
Lowell, years
Chief Engineer, Tremont Suffolk Mills, be
| Lowell, years
. Chief Engineer, Chicopee Mfg. Co.,  
year
Asst. Engineer, New England Cotton
Yarn Co., Taunton, years
Henry Merideth, Evening School, per eve.
  Appleton St. |
Electricity
State Approval |
Graduate of Springfield Evening School
of Trades

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Employed by New England Telephone
Co., years ,
Emploved by Roland T. Oakes Co.,  
years
Emploved by R. E. Denver Co., months
Byron H. Merrill, Evening School, per eve.
Y. M. C. A. Bldg.
Electricity
State Approval
Graduate of Franklin Union, Boston,
Electrical Course
Eleven vears’ general experience at the
electrical trades ,
Instructor of Apprentices, Western Elec. 
tric Co., Boston
Charles W. Rieser, Evening School per eve.
  Miller Ave. ,
Paper Making
State Approval
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Asst. Chemist, American Writing Paper
Co., vears
William Wylie, Evening School, per eve.
  Linden St.
Machine Shop Practice
 State Approval
Instructor of Apprentice Machinists,  
years |
Employed by the Holyoke Machine Co.
Employed by the Smith Wesson Co.,
Springfield
Employed by the Ford Auger Bit Co.
Harry Bailey, Evening School, per eve.
  Cabot St.
Machine Shop Practice

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
State Approval
Midland Institute, Birmingham, England,
  years
Emploved by Tangyes Co., Ltd., Birmingham, England
Emploved by Smethwick Carriage Works,
Birmingham, England
Emploved by the Hadley Thread Co.
Emploved by the Holyoke Machine Co.
) Instructor of Apprentices, Deane Steam
Pump Co., years
Foreman of Tool Making Dept., Deane
Steam Pump Co.
James Webb, Evening School, per eve.
  Lebanon St., Springfield
Instruetor in Decorative Plastering
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Evening School, per eve
  Dwight St.
Supervisor of Practical Arts Classes
State Approval
Notre Dame Convent, Chicopee
' Foss Art Embroidery Rooms, Boston
Decorative Art Rooms, New York
Art embroidery busimess
Alice E. Fenton, Evening School, per eve.
  Suffolk St.
Dressmaking
State Approval
Mt. St. Joseph Seminary, Hartford, year
Stunmer Course at Columbia University
New Britain Normal School, year
Instruetor, Morgan Evening School, year
Mrs. Alice Davis, Evening School per eve.
  Tavlor St.
Dressmaking

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
State Approval
Practical Dressmaker, years
Mrs. Charles E. Thunert, Evening School, per eve.
  Main St.
Dressmaking
State Approval
MeDowell School and Buddington School,
New York
With Mrs. Moore, Springfield, years
Teacher in Buddington School, months
Teacher in Y. W. C. A., months
Dressmaker for years
Teacher of Apprentices in Dressmaking
Florence E. Barber, Evening School, per eve.
  Pleasant St.
Dressmaking
State Approval ,
Boston Y. W. C. A.
School of Domestic Science and Art,  
year
Instructor at Shaw Settlement House,
Boston ;
Helen I. Taylor, Evening School, per eve.
  Bh St.
Cooking
State Approval
Boston School of Domestic Science,  
year
Commercial Catering, years
Domestie Science Secretary, Y. W. C.A.,
  years
Mrs. E. A. O'Connell, Evening School, per eve.
  Northampton St.
Cooking
State Approval

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Caterer Holyoke Country Club, vears |
* Manager of Holvoke Lunch Restaurant, |
  years ,
, |
Mrs. Katherine Groot, Evening School, per eve |
  Central St., Springfield |
Millinery
State Approval
With Miss N. T. Healy, vears
With Smith Murray, Springfield,  
years
Instructor of Apprentices in Work Room, )
  years |
Mrs. Gina de Leon, Evening School, per eve.
  River Terrace |
Embroidery !
State Approval !
Technical School in Rome, years ;
, Naples Normal School, year |
Commercial Work with A. Steiger Co.
and M. Hemingway Son,  
years
Instructor in Embroidery for A. Steiger
& Co., vears |
Blanche MeCollister, Evening School, per eve.
  Pleasant St.
Home Nursing .
State Approval |
Holyoke City Hospital |
Post-Graduate Course at Boston Floating Hospital .
, Private Nursing, vears
Nurse in charge of Central Milk Station
of Ilolvoke Infant Hygiene Assoelation

PART VIII.
ROSTER OF DAY SCHOOL PUPILS—
 

CARPENTRY AND BUILDING.
George Butler Henry O’Connell
Russell Chase  Reginald Piquette
John Flood Arthur J. Smith
Thomas Gill Philip Smith
Fred Graham Henry Sullivan
Albert Guenther James E. Sullivan
Allen Henderson James Sullivan
Emory Hill Rodolphe Theroux
Gracien Jubinville Harry Thorpe
Sidney Levinson Robert Walsh :
Adelard Moreau Sarsfield Walsh
Romeo Moreau Edgar Waring
Albert Mtrphy Julius Weiland

. PATTERN MAKING.

: Alfred Belanger Vernon Luce

Frank Brogle Timothy O’Brien
Richard Cleveland James O’Neil
Walter Crowson William O’Neil
Alfred Dreikorn Harold Roosevelt
Francis Flynn Warren Smith
John Knightly Lester White
Robert Lee Leo Wynn

MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE. :
William Beck Arthur Hutchins
Rosario Bibeau Robert Jenkins

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

Henry Briere Albert Lalonde

Ralph Brougham Carl Larson

John Buckley Leo LeBlane |

Eugene Coderre Leon Leonard !

Arthur Cloutier Edward O’Donnell

Thomas Daley Francis O’Neill

Harrington Fay Wallace Phillips

George Fitzgerald John Schmidt

Thomas H. Flynn John Shea

Bartholomew Gill Claude Thomson |

Maurice Glaster Arthur Turcotte

Edwin Godd Clyde Underwood

Leo Hamel John Walsh

Robert Hoyt Harold Young |

Frank Hurley |
PRINTING AND BINDING. |

Harold Baker Thomas Kerin !

Alfred Baush James McNerney

Arthur Bradley Edward Meon |

Patrick Bresnahan John Mickey

Willard Burgess Michael Moriarty

Robert Burns William Murphy

Francis Chouinard Frank Neidbala

Edward Dowd Herbert Peterson

Walter Goehring Dennis Reardon |

Anselm Hall Charles Ross !

Frank Hallisey Charles Schindler

Charles Hudson Joseph Sefcik |

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
PRODUCTIVE WORK OF PUPILS OF THE VOCA| TIONAL SCHOOL.
DEPARTMENT OF CARPENTRY AND BUILDING.
  Drafting Tables Double City Stands
  Drafting Stools Supports for Stock Room
  Drafting Boards Shelves
  Type Sort Boxes Imposing Tables
  Window Boxes Office Table
  Card File Boxes  Filing Cabinets
  Chairs Panels for Exhibiting Pic  Exhibit Frames. tures
DEPARTMENT OF MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE.
  Links Vise Handles
  Pump Plungers Vise Screws
  Cam Shafts Lathe Center Bars
  Manual Training Vises Step Blocks
  Jack Screws Imposing Stones  Collars
DEPARTMENT OF PATTERN MAKING.
  Block Outside Collar
  Step Block Pulley
  Angle Plate Tool Rest
  Tool Holder Gear Blank
  Milling Vise Drilling Jig
  Milling Fixture Flange Collar
  Surface Plate Support
  Center Pad Shaper Wrench
  Cone Pulley Cap Screw Jack
‘  Jack Screw Stand Platen Arm Lever
  Jack Screw Cap Bevel Gear Blank
  Head Piece Door  Sliding End

— REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
  Tail Piece Door S. Clamp Nut
  Body Buffing Stand Pan Hanger !
  Collar Buffing Stand Split Hub |
  Cap Buffing Stand Wicket |
  Frame Bench Vise Impression Set Arm
  Jaw Bench Vise Link Bar !
  Nut Bench Vise Tool Rest Support
  Head Bench Vise Spur Gear Blank
  Face Plate for P. and W. Spreader Fitting
Lathe Table Cluteh Lever
  Seat Bracket Jack Serew
  Gear Guard Tumbler Gear B.
  No. Jack Body Balanee Weight
  No. Jack Top Shipper Arm
  Sensitive Drill Stop Water Dish, No. Grinder
  Imposing Table Bracket for Jointer |
  Chip Pan Support Table Lever
  Vise Nut Gide Wheel |
  Tool Support Filing Jig for Band Saw
  Body Grinder Head Tie for Manual Training
  Cap Grinder Head Vise
  Inside Collar Wheel Guard :
DEPARTMENT OF PRINTING AND BINDING. |
  Letter Heads Tickets
  Envelopes Shop Order Cards
  Time and Operation Office Memorandum
Cards Cards
  Advertisement Cards Introduction Cards
  Requisition Sheets Estimate Sheets
  Record Cards Christmas Cards
  Enrolment Cards Name Cards
  Library Lists Checks
  Mill Order Cards House Carpentry Monthly Report Cards Cards
  Programs Tags
  Admission Cards

PART IX.
AGREEMENT.

The full text of the agreement between the Massachusetts Board
of Education and the local Board of Trustees with reference to the
establishment and maintenance of the Holyoke Vocational School is
published herewith, in the hope that it may give information on the
history, scope and policy of the work of the Board of Trustees.
CONCERNING THE SCHEME FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT

OF AN INDEPENDENT INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
IN THE CITY OF HOLYOKE.

By the enactment of an ordinance the city of Holyoke has authorized the establishment of an independgnt industrial school under the provisions of chapter of the Acts of  Massachusetts. It has also provided for Board of Trustees to control the
school. Said Board of Trustees desires to adapt an existing building
and equipment for the use of an independent industrial school and to devise satisfactory scheme for conducting industrial education in
that city.

Industrially the city of Holyoke presents an excellent opportunity
for such departure, but because of the type of building at the disposal of the Board of Trustees and the necessity of using it and the
equipment for high school pupils, said building and equipment offer
only limited space and opportunity for industrial school pupils.

A scheme for conducting work in this plant has occupied the attention of the Board of Trustees and the oftice of the Deputy Commissioner in charge of Vocational Education for some time. The situation is far from ideal and fresents much which does not promise
a strong independent industrial school, but in view of the evident interest and real desire on the part of the Board of Trustees to meet
the requirements of the ordinance, the State Office has co-operated
with them in their effort to make it possible for the city of Holyoke to
enter upon state-aided work at an early date. scheme which can be
recommended for approval for temporary use has been prepared.

This scheme has been devised by the following procedure:

.  memorandum of scheme proposed by Holyoke has been
submitted to the State Office.

I
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
 Such corrections of and additions to the proposed scheme as
are necessary to make it approvable have been returned to
the Board of Trustees. |
An analysis of the above mentioned corrections and additions, a
presentation of the additions in detail, and the memorandum with corrections and additions thereto in parallel columns, follow. These are
primarily for the consideration of the Board of Trustees and are suggested to them as basis for scheme to be presented officially for
approval by the Board of Education as the next step toward the establishment of an independent industrial (day) school. It is understood
that the plant and scheme, if approved at all, can be approved only
as temporary arrangement pending the proper housing of the school
in the near future.
ANALYSIS OF REQUIREMENTS IN ADDITION TO THOSE |
DISCUSSED IN CONNECTION WITH THE ;
MEMORANDUM SUBMITTED. |
 Asa part of the scheme, part-time option shall be offered to |
the pupils at the close of their second year, and there shall be included |
a scheme for full-time employment in the industry trained for during '
the last five months of the senior year.
 The director of the school shall give full time to the school. |
 The scheme shall not be attempted until the pupils can be |
housed in the new building.
 Reimbursement starts with approval of establishment and con- |
tinues during time of approval.
 The existing co-operative class is not included in this scheme.
 Official assurance of intention to provide suitable quarters at
an early date and recognition of this scheme as temporary one  s
requested.
ANALYSIS OF CERTAIN CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS
TO THE MEMORANDUM. .
 Method of instruction.  Use of equipment.
 Length of sessions.  High School pupils.
 Number of pupils.  Control by Board of Trustees.
 Expenditure of money.
The memorandum and comment thereon are presented ‘in parallel
columns. 

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
DETAIL OF ADDITIONS TO MEMORANDUM FOR THE
SCHEME.
 General Scheme.

The general scheme as presented is four-year, full responsibility,
non-co-operative school. In the light of previous experience, this office
will recommend for approval that there be added to this scheme an
arrangement whereby at the beginning of the third year an option
shall be offered the pupils between (a) continuing their instruction
entirely in the school, or (b) continuing their instruction on parttime basis during the third and fourth years, should they remain that
length of time.

This office will recommend that there shall be added to the scheme
a provision that the last five months of the senior year shall be given
over to full-time employment, and that satisfactory record of this
full-time employment shall be prerequisite for the granting of
diplomas.

The part-time addition to the scheme of the school  suggested
because of the fact that our experience indicates that many pupils, on
reaching the age of efficient entrance into the industry (about  ), are
so strongly tempted by the wage which they can earn then, that they
leave school with partial preparation. The group which is more farsighted will remain longer time in the school because they appreciate
the value of the additional training. This office is therefore of the
opinion that, in the establishment of new schools, provision should be
made by scheme to take care of both the comparatively small farsighted group and the short-sighted group, in the belief that many of
the latter, if able to earn money, will remain for longer period in
school training. :

 Director.

The development of an industrial school in city of the size of
Holyoke is proposition which requires the entire attention of an expert. We recommend that it will be necessary for the Board of Trustees to appoint director, who will give his entire time to the work of
the school, and proposition whereby his time shall be divided between
the operation of the vocational school and the supervision of manual
training in the grades cannot be accepted as an approvable arrangement
by this office.

 Time of Etablishment.

The establishment of the school as an independent industrial school

(day) shall await the housing of the school in the new building.

|
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL |
|
 Reimbursement.
The period for reimbursement shall start from the date of the
“approval” of the “establishment” of the school as an “independent industrial” school, as provided in section  paragraph  and section  
of chapter of the Acts of  Reimbursement will follow in
accordance with the provisions of sections  and of said chapter.
 Co-operative Plan.
, It is understood that the existing co-operative school now conducted as department in the High School is not part*of the scheme
now under discussion. |
 An Assurance.
In view of the fact that the proposed scheme, as stated on the |
opening page of this communication, is temporary scheme to enable
Holyoke to begin state-aided industrial education at an early date, and
can be approved only upon these grounds, we should have official assurance that the Board of Trustees so understands it and pledges its
efforts to bring about the housing of the independent industrial school
in suitable building at the carhest possible date. If this assurance
of the Trustees is supported by an expression of intention on the part
of citizens of Holyoke (official and private) to assist at the proper time
in providing adequate quarters for the school, the Board of Education would consider the scheme less in the light of an experiment
and more as beginning of what promises to be strong industrial
school.
With the above additions and the corrections and additions to
the memorandum, the scheme presented can be recommended by this
ofthce for approval.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
MEMORANDUM AND COMMENTS.
Statement of proposed scheme Corrections, alterations or addiprepared as memorandum. tions required if proposed scheme |
shall be recommended for ap- |
proval.
 Preliminary Statement.
It is understood that the city of |. Astatement of fact ;no corrections. .
Holyoke has been operating a
scheme of vocational education
under the control of the School
Committee; that that scheme up )
to the present time has consisted
of (a) certain evening trade extension courses which have been
in the past approved for stateaid, and (b) full-time day industrial school, opened Septem- 
ber  th,  this school being at |
present located in the High
School building.. Under the provisions of an ordinance recently
passed, vocational education in
Holyoke has been placed in the
hands of an independent board
of trustees within the meaning of
the statute. At conference recently held in Holyoke between
members of the Board of Trustees and representatives of the
State Office, sub-committee of
the Board of Trustees was ap. pointed to confer with the State
Office, and this memorandum has
been prepared by Mr. Allen and
Mr. Whitney to form the basis of
a discussion. It is not within the
scope of this memorandum to discuss questions of control. As a
matter of information, it may be
recorded that an ordinance has
been passed, Board of Trustees appointed and an advisory
committee appointed by the Board
of Trustees.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
 Proposal and Assumption.

The all-day industrial school is The assumption that the school
at present conducted in the High as at present conducted, and the
School building with member- school as it would be conducted |
ship of about boys. It  pro- in the new building differ only in |
posed to transfer this school to (a) the housing of the school,  |
the gymnasium building, probably and (b) the furnishing of pupil
by next September. The state- capacity up to  would be well
ment as prepared by Mr. Whitney made if the scheme presented in
and Mr. Allen covers the work as the memorandum could be  acnow carried on in this school, as cepted. As indicated elsewhere,
located in the High School. The the scheme cannot be accepted |

 transfer to the new building will without essential changes which
only affect the situation as re- destroy the value of the assumpgards (a) the housing of the tion and any argument based upschool in building separate from on it.
the High School, and (b) the Among the modifications refurnishing of pupil capacity prob- quired which destroy the force of
ably up to  and the addition the assumption are:
of at least one, or more, trade Comment.
departments. Hence, it may be
assumed for purposes of discus-  director in full charge.
sion that the school as at present  Readjustment of responsibilconducted and the school as it ity of the faculty of the |
would be conducted in the new present school. |
building, after the sheets of in- |
formgtion submitted, would dif-  Use of shops by high school |
fer only in the points mentioned pupils.
above. For the purpose of this  Authority and control of
memorandum it has seemed best, equipment. |
however, to state the plans as
they will be put into effect next
September in the new building.
 Building.

The building, which is  by Statement of fact; no corrections. |
 ’, consists of three floors, each
about  by  ’, and basement, the space in which it is pro- |
posed to assign approximately as
follows: To Wood Shop,  
square feet. To Machine Shop, .
  square feet. To Printing .

|
REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
|
Shop, square feet. To Tech- Statement of fact; no corrections. |
nical and Academic Work, |
square feet. To Administration,
  square feet. To Storage.
  square feet. Total,  
; square feet.
The above areas do not include
  feet of corridor space. The
building is located on the southeast side of Sargeant street, at
the corner of Bh street. It is ,
closely adjacent to the High
School building and contains, in
addition, gymnasium, which  s
to be used as high school gymnasium. There are three entrances
to the gymnasium, two of which
are independent of the portion of
the building which is to be used
for the vocational school. The
third is the main entrance passing through on the ground floor,
and also giving admittance to the
vocational school building.
 Method of Instruction.
It is proposed in general to op- The modified scheme for Phase
erate this school on the basis of  as presented, cannot be approvBulletin No.  with the follow- ed. The of time assigned to
ing modifications: Phase  shop work should be extended to
of time on the shop floor follow- at least  and all drawing and
ing the project method, giving other related subjects directly
arithmetic, English, materials of connected with the project work
trade; drawing on the project carried on on the floor of the
method to be given outside the shop.
shop to an amount estimated to Phase  modified form intake about additional, volving of time assigned to
of the time to be given to non- shop work  proposed. The
related subjects. Summary: Phase scheme as presented cannot be ap project shop work,  re- proved and the scheme as set
lated drawing out of the shop, forth in Bulletin No.  involving
: non-related subjects,  of shop work and the balPhase  Modified as follows: ance of time on separate proIt is proposed to continue Phase gram will be required.

. |
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL |
  on shop basis with cer- Phase as presented is in ac- |
tain minor modifications to be cordance with the scheme of the
worked out so that some inter- Bulletin. '
mediate scheme may be introduc- The above rulings are adhered
ed between Phase and Phase  to because the of time asIt is proposed to keep some inter- signed to drawing is contrary to
mediate phase between and the pedagogical principle upon }
which will be planned to secure which Phase  based, and as |
the purpose of Phase at an in- laid down in the Bulletin, because
termediate year. The general (a) it removes the pupil from
idea of this modifications will be the shop atmosphere to too great
based upon the notion that it will an extent in the earlier portion of
not be necessary, under the con- his school experience; (b) it al- |
ditions that will prevail, to abso- lows much greater time for draw- |
lutely clear the shop of Phase ing than is necessary under the
boys for all work except actual project scheme as outlined in Bul- |
bench or machine work. letin No.  (c) it reduces the
Phase will be carried out as amount of shop experience in )
in the Bulletin, on basis of Phase  since the time given to
shop work and organized drawing is greatly in excess of |
work. that required for any drawing
Department of Non-Vocational which would normally come
Subjects: It is proposed to give through the project work as proin the remaining of the time posed and as laid out in Bulletin ,
instruction in English literature. No.  |
civics and citizenship, hygiene and
sanitation, also industrial history. |
 Proposed Departments.
It is proposed to operate (a) No objections; details of these
machine shop; (b) pattern courses of studies must be apmaking department; (c) house proved later.
carpentry and house construction department; and (d) printing .
department. The reason for these
departments: The selection of
the above departments has been
based upon an investigation of local conditions so far as (a), (b)
and (c) are concerned. The ques tion of the department of printing has been raised upon the initiative of the advisory board.
The local investigation with reREPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
gard to the general industrial need
of Holyoke was made by Mr.
Whitney.
This investigation was carried
on in personal manner with regard to the wood group and the
machine shop group, and resulted
in series of meetings between
the local foremen in the woodworking industries and the manufacturers of those industries and
similar meetings with the manufacturers of machine shop products, including the repair departments in paper factories and other lines of industry. The conclusion was decisive one, that
ample opportunity would be offered for training boys in these two
lines of work.

 Conditions of Admission.
The school will be open to pu- Agreed to.
pils between the ages of and
  on minimum basis of an age
and schooling certificate. Individual and group instruction, but
not class instruction, is planned.
The school will be organized to mo
admit at any time. It is proposed to exercise proper discretion
in admitting pupils, based upon
the opinion of the school authorities as to the setting up of reasonable presumption of ability to
profit by the work within the
spirit and intent of the statute.
It is not the intention of the authorities to allow the school to
become school for the training
of deficients on the one hand, nor
do they contemplate administering such rigorous conditions that

t

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
the school can only serve high- Agreed to.
ly selected group of pupils.

Promotion will be on presumption of fitness as established at
any time, and will be on the basis
of individual promotion. There
will be no class promotion and no
fixed period for promotion.

 Length of Session.

The school is now operating total of hours per week
hours per day for days, or ato- will be required, and at least  
tal of hours per week. It is weeks per year; an extension to !
proposed to operate it from weeks should be made when
to  and from to p. m, the proper time comes. |
total of hours per day, or
  hours per week. |

Note: While hours per
week has been accepted as min- !
imum by the State Office, school
looking toward state aid should
plan to be able to increase the
number of hours over as
fast as circumstances will permit,
and the State Office is prepared
to raise the time limit in this respect. (This information is furnished by Mr. Allen.)
;  Number of Pupils it is Proposed to Accommodate.

In the machine shop depart- In admitting pupils to the voment, sections, each; in the cational school it shall be clearly
house building and pattern mak- understood that no attention will
ing departments together, sec- be paid to the effect upon the
tions, each; in the printing de- High School instruction; that it
partment, section,  total, shall be clearly understood in any |
pupils. This is the maximum arrangement made with the High
number estimated for efhcient School that whenever the number
work in the proposed building un- of pupils in the vocational school
less the building is used exclu-  hecomes large enough to require
sively for vocational school work. it, either the number of technical
in which case about total of students who are allowed to take
  pupils could be accommodat- shop work and drawing as an opREPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
ed. This probably represents the tion, shall be restricted as much
maximum capacity of this build- as may be necessary, ar that ading for efficient work under the ditional space and equipment shall
standards of vocational education. be provided by the city of Holyoke, with the understanding that

failure to take such action whenever it may become necessary

shall be treated as prima facie

evidence on which approval shall

be withdrawn from the school.
 Character of Shop Work.

It is proposed to operate pro- No corrections.
ductive shops as defined in Circular No.  issued by the Board
of Education, making construc- tion material for school equipment, work for other city departments, and later to take such outside work as can be obtained. The
ultimate payment of either all or
a portion of the boys on some

. scheme to be worked out later  s
included in the general plan.
 Equipment. |

The equipment is intended to No corrections.
meet the standards set up in Circular No. and, if deficient in
any respect, can be made to meet
the standards.

 Expenditure of Moncey.

The PRoard of Trustees is pre- The school under the indepenpared to authorize the keeping of dent board of trustees shall be
expenditures of money upon the operated under separate approsheets as provided for the pur- priation, and the accounts shall be
pose by the State Othce. They kept upon the state form at the
are prepared to furnish the school  school office and under the auwith such clerical assistance as thorities of the Board of Trusmay be necessary to keep such  tees.
statement of records and do such
other clerical work as may be

|
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL |
necessary in order to enable the
school to meet the standards set |
up from time to time by the State
Board of Education. |
 Use of Equipment.

The use of vocational school The scheme submitted includes
equipment for instruction of proposition to utilize the me- !
High School pupils: In order chanical equipment of the vocathat mechanical equipment may  tional school pupils; as matter
not be duplicated, it is proposed of general principles, this office
to use the mechanical equipment raises no objection to the com- )
of the vocational school for man- mon use of expensive mechanical
ual training instruction of the equipment, but it must be under
boys in the technical course in such conditions that the work of
the High School who may elect the vocational school is in no way
shop work within that course. It interfered with.
is proposed to take care of about
  High School pupils in shop |
work in five groups, as follows:

 High School Pupils.

In wood shop, classes of Statement of fact: These pueach, first year high school stu- pils and plans for them must give |
dents; group of  second year way to industrial school pupils if
high school students. In machine both cannot be served. !
shop, class of not over  third |
year high school students; and  
of not over  fourth year high
school students. These sections
will fill the shops at that time. In
addition, about high school pupils will be given drawing in ,
groups. Each of the above
groups, both in shop work or in
drawing, will get over or  
minutes of instruction per week.
Approximately about one-half of
all the above pupils take minutes per week, and the other half
 .

These pupils will be handled
while’ the vocational school is in

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
session, and it is proposed to lay
out the program in such way
that these high school pupils will
use the shops and drawing rooms
at times when they are not in use
" by the vocational school students;
that is, it is not proposed to take
high school and vocational school
students in the same shop in the
same room at the same time. It
is proposed to give these high
school pupils shop work of a
character which will not tie up
the mechanical equipment outside
of the period during which this
manual training instruction is
given.

Under the above scheme two

drawing rooms will be used for
  minutes day for four days.
In the present program the wood
shop will be occupied for about
  hours week by the woodworking high school pupils, and
for about hours week the
machine shop will be occupied by
technical high school pupils.

It is proposed in the near future to reduce the amount of

; shop and drawing time in the
technical high school course to a
. total of and  as against
the present and  -minute
program. This change will probably go into effect next September.
 Control by Board of Trustees.

The above scheme has been The faculty of the vocational
worked out with the understand-  school shall be employed full time
ing that the industrial Board of on the work of the vocational

- Trustees proposes to entirely con- school: the instruction in manual
trol everything inside the build- training and drawing shall be
ing in which the school is to be’ given by teacher employed by

q
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
housed, in order that questions as. the Board of Trustees for that
to divided jurisdiction and re- purpose only, and service charge
sponsibility may not arise. shall be made to the School Department for that purpose, which
shall cover the entire cost, including overhead charges, the payment for this service being entered on the books as an income.
This will make it plain that the |
Commonwealth is not reimburs- |
ing the city of Holyoke for any |
expense for the instruction of |
manual training pupils who are
being instructed under the provisions of chapter of the Revised
Laws.

While outside the scope of this Matter contained in  and  

statement, in order that it may opposite, shall be included in the
serve aS memorandum for scheme.
conference, it is suggested that
the following points be covered
as bearing vital relation to the
whole question:

 The desirability of the industrial school being operated un- .
der separate appropriation, the
expenditure of which is entirely |
controlled by the Board of Trus- |
tees for Vocational Educaticn ;

 The turning over of the
building to the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education;

 The setting up of such an

arrangement between the High ;
School and the vocational school
that all teachers are employed
full time by the vocational school
and that any instruction which is
given to High School pupils shall
be given on the basis of fair
tuition rate.

REPORT OF THE
FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Office of Fire Commissioners,
Holyoke, Mass., December .
To the Honorable Mayor and Aldermen: .
GENTLEMEN: We respectfully submit to vou the report
of the Fire Department for the year ending December  ,
 :
The Board of Fire Commissioners consisting of George
C. Robert, Patrick F. Carmody and Sidney E. Whiting, met
January and organized by election of George C.
Robert as Chairman, Sidney E. Whiting as Vice-Chairman
and John Hildreth as Secretary. James H. O'Connell was
appointed in place of Patrick F. Carmody (who resigned).
There have been fires and alarms during the past
vear. This is eight more than last vear, and the losses on the
buildings amounted to and the losses on the econtents amounted to The property endangered by
fire amounted to nearly eighteen millions of dollars, and the
Insurance on said property amounted to nearly ten millions
of dollars; the insurance companies paid leaving net loss on the fires and alarms of or an
average of about  per fire.
- Many of these fires were exdingly difficult to combat,
 and the Commissioners feel notwithstanding the large losses,
the Department has done exdingly good work.
Your Commissioners regret to announce that the total
loss amounts to  more than last year.
There were four large fires, namely: Stewart's Five
and Ten Cent Store, Sutherland Dry Goods Store, Bullard

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
Thread Company and the fires in the Louis A. LaFrance
block. The loss on these four fires amounted to .

It may be interesting to know the total losses on the
buildings and contents for the past six years are as follows,
namely ;

WWOS       
VID Lecce      es  
W ...       ees  
WL oe   cence .  
V          
VOLS oo. ec         

We are glad to report that this vear there were no serious accidents among the firemen, while there were many
minor injuries, no fireman was seriously incapacitated by
reason of accident.

We are glad to mention in the roll of honor, Robert E.
MeCarthy, Michael J. Riley and Joseph M. Riley, whose conduct in rescuing persons from burning building, we hereby
commend.

During the year one person, namely, Mrs. Martha Vining, lost her life on account of an overturned kerosene lamp.

. We urge our citizens to exercise the greatest care in the use
of kerosene and gasolene.

During the past year seventy-six fires were started by
boys. It would seem as though something could be done in
the pubhe schools and in the homes of the children to lessen
the number of fires from this cause, and we again call attention to the dangerous habit of throwing lighted cigars and
cigarettes on the ground. Sixty-four fires were started this 
last vear from this careless practice.

Another thing which seriously handicaps the fire department in fighting fires is the untidy conditions of many
of the basements in stores and blocks. Oftentimes they are
so crowded with rubbish that the firemen ean hardly get
through to put out fires, and many good citizens keep their
basements in their stores in an exdingly dangerous condition.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  

We again call the attention of the public to the necessity of giving the Fire Department the right of way when an
alarm of fire is rung by keeping on the sidewalk, so that the
motor-driven apparatus may not have to dodge pedestrians
on the highway. Speed in getting to fire is one of the principal elements of success in fighting fires. few seconds,
oftentimes will determine whether fire is to be subdued with
only small loss or to be costly and an expensive fire, and
when the alarm rings, the firemen do not know the conditions
which await them, and so they must get there as quickly as
possible, and the law gives them the right of way, and the
citizens should be willing to co-operate in this direction.

Your Commissioners regret that they have not yet been
able to make contract to install the new apparatus in the
headquarters, but we have made arrangements which will
carry the city in safety until the new apparatus  installed.

) We trust in making the appropriations for the coming
year, you will make them sufficiently large to enable us to
earry out several recommendations that we hereafter make.

First: We recommend that an extra appropriation be
made for the sum of  for the purchase of two new
Auto Combination Chemical and Hose Wagons. number of
years of experience has shown us that motor driven apparatus on the whole is very much superior to horse driven apparatus, being more efficient and less costly.

Second: We reiterate our recommendation of many
years that the Engine House in Ward One be sold, and new
house erected in more central location.

Third: We recommend the purchase of three thousand
feet of two-and one-half-inch hose.

RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand from .................. 
Total appropriations .........................  
Receipts from sale of horses, ete................  
Total receipts ............ee     ee) 

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
|
EXPENDITURES. |
- For salaries...  ...           |
For stokers and engineers (call members)...... |
For pensions .......   ees ,
Repairs, new apparatus, supplies and contingent |
ACCOUNT Lo...  ee     eas  
Transferred to general receipts account ........  
Total expenditures ...................... 
SALARIES PAID IN THE DEPARTMENT.
Chief Engineer, per vear oo...  ...  ee
First Deputy Chief, per vear ..................  
Seeond Deputy Chief. per vear ..................  
Third Deputy Chief, per vear .................-  
Superintendent of Fire Alarm, per vear ..........  
Supervisor of motor apparatus, per vear ........  
Lineman, per year oo...          
. Captains, per year oo...  ...       
Lieutenants, per vear oo...            
Drivers and permanent men, per vear ..........  
Two permanent engineers of steamers, per year...  
Four eall engineers of steamers, per vear ........  
Six stokers of steamers, per vear .......... 
Permanent men in the Department, first vear ....  
Permanent men in the Department. second vear ..  
Permanent men in the Department, third year ...  
Permanent men in the Department, fourth vear...  
Permanent men in the Department, fifth vear....  
Secretary of Commission, per vear oo...  ...   
Veterinary per year oo... ..         
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
George C. Robert, Chairman, Term expires January,  
Sidney E. Whiting, Term expires January,  
James H. O'Connell, Term expires January,  
‘

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.

The Fire Department have inspected during the past
year buildings, and generally the public have been willing when the buildings were found to be in poor condition
to remedy the same. ,

The number of fires and alarms the past vear was  ,
of which were bell alarms, were still alarms and
Where no alarm was given, and there were nine false alarms.

e Ing  statement of the valuation of the propThe followi statement of tl aluat tl )
erty endangered by fire, and insurance on said property,
with the amount of the losses by fire and the amount paid
by insurance companies, together with detailed statement

 
of causes of fires, viz. :
Buildings.  ...   ee ee) 
Contents wo...    ee      

Total  ... ce ee KIT  
Insurance on binldings ............. 
Insurance on eontents ..........      

Total .....        $IV 
Damage to buildings ............... 
Damage to contentS .......     

Total ..         eet      KIDS ZITO
Insurance paid on buildings .............-- KO  
Insuranee paid on contents ..........-.++--  

Total ....   eens 
Total damage  ...        
Total insurance pald ............       

Total net loss of fires and alarms.... 

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
The average loss per fire above insurANCE WAS  ... ..   ee  
The number of fires and alarms during each month in the
year were as follows, viz.:
December,  ...         
January,  ... cc        :
February,  ... ce     
March,  ... ce        
April, wo...         A
May,  ... ce    e DOD
Jume,  ... ce   ences  
July, occ    teen |
August,  ... cc ce      OF
September,  ... ec      
October,  ...   OD
November, .......  ...       ees DD
Total  ...     ce    eens AIT
The causes of the different fires and alarms are classified ,
as follows, viz.:
Set by boys ...  ...  ce      tenes  
Boys playing im cellar .........  ...     ee   Ol
Hot ashes .......        tte t    
Unknown  ... ..     t te  s  If
Spontaneous combustion .........  ...        Ol
Careless use of matches ............         LT.
Cigar stub .....    cc         et  Ll
Match or cigar in awning ...............    OD
Cigarette stub  ...          nee  
Cigarette ON AWNING ......         
Cigarette im waste basket ...........   ) OL
Children plaving with matehes ......................  
Sparks from stoves ........            
Sparks from locomotive ............        

. REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Sparks from fireplace ..................... --....  
Back fire in auto ........    ee.  
Short cireuit in garage .............................  
Defective chimney ..................................  
Defective stovepipe ...............c       
False alarm ..........  ecc   )
Overheated stove ......... ...           .  
Overheated stove pipe .............................  
Overheated bearing ................................. J
Back draft ......... ..   ece een  
Struck by lightning ................................  
Soot im chimney ...........  ...      
Man smoking in bed ........................- ....  
Incendiary ..........       eseeseevesee  
* Gas jet set curtain afire ..... ..................  
Gas stOVe  ... cc     eet eteesae I
Gasolene .....  ...       enstee I
Gasolene leaking ...........  ... .... . cc  I
Electric ear, short cireuit  ...       ,  
Electric wire, short circuit ....................... .. @
Candle tipped over ..........            ets 
Candle burning too low .....................-... ..  
Friction in carding machine ........................  
Pipe in man’s pocket ..............     ase SD
Firecrackers on awning ................ . I
Fireworks  ...         eesecaee I
Rats and matches ..........  ...       ee OO
Thermostat out of order ....................    
Brush fire ......  ...      cette  se  ]
Fuse burned out ...........      ete eens)  
CroSS WIPES  ...       cette cc  OC
Rekindled fires ............          
Painters’ torch .........  ...   cree  OO
Pot of grease .......  ...            
Hot water heater exploded ..........................  
Ash chute on fire ........  ...        A

 

|

|

|

|

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS :

Escaping steam ......   cc       eens |

Aleohol lamp upset .............        |

' Boys set fire to fence .......      OI |

Burning rubbish ..........  ...       et  OD |
Careless use of kerosene ..............   
Careless use of gasolene ..............         OL

Caught from gas jet ........  ...       OL |
Chemicals overheated  ...  ...         Ol

Chimney smoke mistaken for fire .................... |

Cigarette IN areaWwaV  ...  ... ce           OL |
Clothes too near gas stove ..............    I
Clothes set fire by stove ..................   ol

Coals from stove ......  ... cc            lL :

Curtain caught from alcohol lamp .................... '
Curtain fell on oil stove ......  ...      )
Defective flue  ...      ec  ol
Defective gax fixture .........  ...         ) OL
Defeetive gas tubing ........  ...        OL
. Defective heater *.  ... ec       
Defective OVEN  ...          

Defective WiTing ........   tee I
Electrie coffee percolator .........  ...          Ol
Electric light in sawdust barrel ......................  
Flatiron occ       tee et ces  
Friction in belt .....  ... ..        I
Gas exploded ........                
Gas globe fell on rug ......  ...           
Gas leaking  ...  ...          OO
Gas mantle fell on table cloth ....................  
Gas mantle fell on rug oo...            Ol
Gas tubing dropped from connection .................  
Gasolene exploded .......  ...     ences  
Gasolene and vuleanizer ........  ...         OL
Hand torch ...   cc       cc  lL
Hat on gas jet oo...            e I

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Hot box  ...         ree ol
Jack o’lantern set fire to curtain .................... Ll
. Lamp exploded ...........  ...        OO
Lime slacking .........  ...      ee eet   
Lighted match in waste paper barrel ................  
) Match set curtain afire ........  ...  ...     oO
Overheated doughnut kettle .........................  
. Overheated furnace ...........  ...      OF
Overheated gas range ...........            Ll
Overheated glue .....  ... cc          
Overheated resistance coil ..................  
Overturned heater ..........  ...      se  
Overturned lamp ............       ets   
Probably set by tramps ........... ........ oI
Smoking hams, no fire ................ ec se
South Hadley Falls .........................    
Sparks from boiler ............  ...    evee I
Sparks from chimney ................ cc   
Sparks from furnace ................ eevee sees eet  lL
. Sparks from match ...........  ...        ees  
Sprinkler head burst, no fire ........................ lL
Steam, mistaken for fire ..................e   
Stove smoking ...........           
Stolen auto found on fire ..............       l
Thawing water pipe .........---e   ec  ee   
Trolley pole on railroad bridge ......................  
Wall paper scraper exploded ........................  
Waste on exhaust pipe .............c   lL
Willimansett ............... cc     ct  I
Workman smoking ...............      se  

FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.
We are very glad to report that the contract for the underground cable system has been awarded, and the cable will
soon be laid, and we trust early in the coming year we shall

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
be able to install the new fire alarm telegraph system. Both :
of these improvements have been needed for long time, and
when they are installed will greatly improve the service in
the fire department.
The property of this department is as follows:
  pole Wagon ......  ...   ec   ees  wire reel ..  ...   teens  
Strong current protector board ............  
Storage battery .........  ...       ees  
Case and switchboard ...............  ,
  miles of wire, all insulated ................ tower bells and strikers .................. mechanical gongs .............  ,
  Gamewell signal boxes .................... !
  telegraph poles ............     ees  private Gamewell boxes ..................
 -inch gongs and indicators .............. indicators without gongs .................. ,
  dead man  ...    eens |
  city signal star boxes .................---- private star boxes ...........      ees
  six-cireuit repeater ..................----- stop clocks ........  ...     horse  ... ..      eens  
L WAGON  ...        sleigh ..... cc         bUGEV  ...     
D  harnesses ......    enens pike poles, cant hook, crow bar, shovels. back boards ..........      ee eens key boxes  ... eens set of bits ..  ...       set screw driverS .........      bit braces co.cc ce     wood chiselS  ...         

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS hack saw frame ...........     jack switches .........  ... cc      battery plates  ...  ...     
V  Jars oo.   ce       ees  
Set of blocks and falls .....................  
| 

The following is list of the apparatus in the Fire Department, viz. :

  chief's automobile.

  assistant chief's automobile.

  horse-driven superintendent's fire alarm wagons. ,

  steam fire engines.

  reserve steam fire engine.

  aerial ladders with tractor.

  aerial ladders horse-driven.

  chemieal engines.

  combination hose and chemical wagon.

) two-horse hose wagons.

  two-horse exercise wagons.

  motor-driven chemical and hose wagons.

HAY AND FEED.

The expense of maintaining this branch of the Departinent has not been as heavy as last vear, owing to the number of horses that we have sold, but the cost of feed has been
quite high, and it is still very heavy item in the maintenance of the fire department. With the gradual introduction of motor-driven apparatus, the cost of feed ought to be
considerably reduced.

HOUSES.

The houses are in very good condition, all exeept the
headquarters, and as we expect very shortly to get into the
new headquarters, the department will be pretty well

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
equipped in this respect. The new headquarters promises to
be one of the most convenient and up to date engine house
in New England. It will make the lot of firemen located |
, there very much better, both from sanitary and  social |
standpoint. )
HOSE.

We have on hand feet of good hose and feet !
of poor hose. It is very risky to use hose at fires after it be- |
comes old. The life of the rubber is not more than four
years. They do not guarantee this hose for more than three
years and after that we ought to replace it with new hose.

The following is the amount of hose on hand: |

House No. oo...    ee  ess  |

House No. ce  

House No. wo. e    

House No. oo... cc       es  

House No. oo...eeee  ees |

House No.  ...  ec      es  |

— |
 
Poor hose .......              |
| HORSES.

We have twenty-three horses in the Department, ten less
than we had last year, and after the experience of number
of years with automobiles, we are more and more convinced
that the quicker we can equip the entire department with .
motor-driven apparatus, the better it will be.

PERMANENT FORCE. ,
 John T. Lyneh, Chief Engineer. !
 Patrick J. Wurleyv, First Deputy Chief. ,
 Joseph M. LaFrance, Second Deputy Chief.
 Daniel McLean, Third Deputy Chief.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
Do. Thomas F. Monoghan, Superintendent of Fire Alarm
 Patrick J. Rohan, Supervisor and Lieutenant.
 Roger Coffee, Lineman. |
 Daniel J. Gorman, Captain.
 Daniel Hogan, Captain.
 James J. Long, Captain.
 Samuel D. Loomis, Captain. ,
)  John P. Wynn, Captain.
 John F. Rohan, Captain.
 George F. Orrell, Captain.
 Daniel J. Brennan, Captain.
 John Welch, Captain.
 Jeremiah J. Hallisey, Lieutenant. —
 John J. Casey, Lieutenant.
 Joseph N. Riley, Lieutenant.  John J. Rvan, Lieutenant. |
 Michael J. Donoghue, Lieutenant.
 John J. Manning, Lieutenant.
 James J. Crowley, Lieutenant.
 Walter S. Watt, Lieutenant.
 James J. Sullivan, Lieutenant.
 John J. Fenton, Lieutenant.
 William P. Gately, Engineer.
 Louis LaBreque, Engineer.
 Timothy Harrington, permanent man.
 Albert Tardy, permanent man.
 Austin F. Mulqueeney, permanent man.
 Patrick J. Kennedy, permanent man.
 Daniel J. Lynch, permanent man.
 Frank S. Lynch, permanent man.
 Thomas Conway, permanent man.
 Charles F. W. Aurnhammer, permanent man.
 George A. Ellison, permanent man.
 Thomas Ash, permanent man.
 James Brady, permanent man.
 William H. Strain, permanent man.
 James O’Grady, permanent man.

’
|
,
  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
|
 John J. Moriarty, permanent man. :
 Patrick T. Kennedy, permanent man.
 James M. Gately, permanent man.
 John B. Moreau, permanent man.
 Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man.
 August F. Greunert, permanent man.
 Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man.
'  Michael P-owler, permanent man.
 Matthew F. Welch, permanent man.
 Robert E. MeCarthy, permanent man. }
 Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man. :
 William Brady, permanent man. |
D Michael Riley, permanent man. |
 Dennis Devine, permanent man.
 Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man. |
of. William J. Millane, permanent man.
 Sifroy Perron, permanent man —
 Patrick J. O'Connor, permanent man.
 Paul Bieber, permanent man.
 George Miles, permanent man.
 Michael Lacey, permanent man. '
 Patrick Barrett, permanent man.
 Dennis J. Sheehan, permanent man. |
 John J. Nugent, permanent man. :
 George Hickson, permanenf man.
 Ernest L. Krug, permanent man.
 Thomas Sullivan, permanent man.
 Edward Claney, permanent man.
 Thomas Fallon, permanent man.
 Michael P. Mahoney, permanent. man.
 Michael Cray, permanent man.
 John T. McCarthy, permanent man.
 John F. Lally, permanent man.
 John J. Rohan, permanent man.
 John J. O'Connell, permanent man.
 William F. Herbert, permanent man.

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  Louis O. Desilets, permanent man.
 Patrick J. Donoghue, permanent man. |
 Archibald J. Maleolm, permanent man.
 George F. Mannix,.permanent man.
 Thomas F. Oldread, permanent nian.
 John J. O’Hare, permanent man.
 Patrick E. Smith, permanent man.
 William J. Mays, permanent man.
 Dennis J. Sullivan, permanent man.
 Frederick G. Wood, permanent man.
 John J. Fitzgibbon, permanent man.
 James L. Loudon, permanent man.
 Timothy Doherty, permanent man.
 Michael J. Burke, permanent man. .
 Edward Ahearn, permanent man.
 John Castle, on the pension list.
 Charles H. Knapp, on the pension list.
.  Daniel Monahan, on the pension list.
STEAMER AND DESPATCH NO.  HIGH STREET.
John Welch, captain, August,  .
John J. Fenton, lieutenant, January,  .
Patrick J. O'Connor, permanent man, April .
Frank S. Lynch, permanent man, May .
Paul Bieber, permanent man, April .
Ernest L. Krug, permanent man, December .
Archibald J. Maleolm, permanent man, December .
William F. Herbert, permanent man, September .
John F. Lally, October .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  MAIN STREET.
James J. Sullivan, lieutenant, March .
John B. Moreau, driver of hose, January .
Dennis Devine, driver of steamer, April .
Matthew F. Welch, permanent man, October .
Louis O. Desilets, permanent man, November .
Edward Ahearn, permanent man, August .

  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  HAMPDEN STREET.
Samuel D. Loomis, captain, July .
- Albert Tardy, driver of hose, April,  .
William P. Gately, engineer, July,  .
Dennis J. Sullivan, permanent man, December ,
Timothy Doherty, permanent man, December .
Austin F. Mulqueeney, permanent man, Mav .
William H. Strain, permanent man, November .
John J. Moriarty, driver, September .
Frederick G. Wood, permanent man, December !
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  CANAL STREET.
Daniel Brennan, captain, April .
John J. Casey, heutenant, May .
John J. Fitzgibbon, permanent man,  .
Thomas Conway, driver of chemical, January,  |
James Brady, permanent man, January .
Dennis J. Sheehan, driver of hose, April i
Michael Bowler, permanent man, January,  .
Michael Burke, permanent man, November .
STEAMER COMPANY NO.  SOUTH STREET
Daniel Hogan, captain, February .
Jeremiah J. Hallisey, lieutenant, Julw ,
Patrick T. Kennedy, permanent man, August .
August F. Greunert, permanent. man, January,  .
Patrick J. Kennedy, driver, January |
Louis LaBreque, engineer, November .
Thomas Ash, driver of hose, Mareh,  .
William J. Mays, December .
COMBINATION CHEMICAL AND HOSE COMPANY .
NO.  MAIN STREET.
Michael J. Donoghue, heutenant, January,  .
Daniel J. Moriarty, permanent man, June,  .
Edward M. Claney, driver, February .

REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  

John J. Rohan, permanent man, December,  .
Thomas N. Oldread, December .
Patrick Barrett, permanent man, April .

HOSE COMPANY NO.  CHESTNUT STREET.
James J. Long, captain, August,  .
James J. Manning, lieutenant, September .
Daniel J. Cavanaugh, permanent man, April .
Daniel J. Lynch, permanent man,  .
George Hickson, driver of hose, June .
Patrick E. Smith, permanent man, December .

HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY NO.  HIGH
Joseph M. Riley, heutenant, September .
Patrick F. Sullivan, permanent man, January,  .
Michael J. Riley, permanent man, July .
Edmund C. Buckley, permanent man, January,  .
Michael J. Lacey, permanent man, April .
Michael Cray, permanent man, January .
John T. MeCarthy, permanent man, March .
Thomas Sullivan, day watch, December .
Patrick J. Donoghue, permanent man, December .
Sifroy Perron, permanent man, April .

HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY NO.  MAIN

STREET. |
George F. Orrell, captain, February,  .
James L. Loudon, permanent man, September .
George F. Miles, permanent man, April .
Michael P. Mahoney, permanent man, January .
Robert E. McCarthy, driver, April .
George F. Mannix, permanent man, December .
HOOK AND LADDER COMPANY NO.  HAMPDEN STREET.

John F. Rohan, captain, January .
George A. Ellison, permanent man, February,  .

|
  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS |
John J. Ryan, lieutenant, March .
Timothy Harrington, permanent man, January .
William Brady, permanent man, May .
COMBINATION CHEMICAL AND HOOK AND LADDER
COMPANY NO.  SOUTH STREET.
Daniel J. Gorman, captain, February .
James J. Crowley, January .
Charles F. W. Aurnhaminer, September .
CHEMICAL ENGINE NO.  HIGH STREET.
John P. Wynn, captain, January .
Walter S. Watt, heutenant, February .
James M. Gately, permanent man, June .
William J. Millane, permanent man, April .
Thomas F. Fallon, February .
John J. O'Connell, permanent man, December .
; CALL ENGINEERS AND STOKERS.
STEAMER No,  .
Frank A. Shelley, engineer, mechanie, Newton place,
April,  .
White P. Bidwell, stoker, paper finisher, Newton place,
April,  .
STEAMER No.  |
Albert Eger, engineer, April '
. STEAMER No.  .
Joseph Eaton, Nonotuck street,  .
STEAMER No. ,
John F, Mahoney, engineer, Center street,  .
Patrick Ginley, stoker, August .

REPORT UF FIRE COMMISSIONERS  
STEAMER No.  .
James J. Murray, stoker, August .
STEAMER No.  .
James O’Connor, engineer, mechanic, West street, July
  .
John Donoghue, stoker,  .
LOCATION AND ASSESSORS’ VALUATION OF THE
FIRE ENGINE HOUSE.
House No.  High street, value of house and
land wo...       
House No.  Main street, value of house and
. land...  ...          
House No.  West Hampden street, value of
house and land ......................+..  
House No.  Canal street, value of house and
land oo...         
House No.  South street, value of house and
Jand oeeeee     
House No.  Chestnut street, value of house
and land .............       
$ 
CONCLUSION. a
Your Commissioners express to the honorable Mavor,
City Council, Board of Public Works, Board of Water Commissioners, the Electric Light Department, the City Clerk,
the City Treasurer, the City Auditor, the City Marshal and
the police officers, and all other public officers their sincere
thanks for the kindly co-operation and the many acts of
courtesy shown us during the past year, and we thank the
Holyoke Street Railway Company on behalf of the members

|
|
  REPORT OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
: of the Fire Department for the continued privilege of allowing them to ride on the company’s cars when on duty without expense, and for their general co-operation with the Fire
Department in every way.
| Respectfully yours, |
GEORGE C. ROBERT, |
SIDNEY E. WHITING, |
JAMES H. O’CONNELL, |
Holvoke Fire Commissioners.
. |
, |
i
: |
|
| |

REPORT OF THE
Gas and Electric Department
City of Holvoke, Massachusetts,
Office of the Gas and Electric Department,
January .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: have the honor to submit herewith the report of the Gas and Electric Department for the year ending
November the same being the twelfth annual report of
the department.

THE GAS WORKS.

The gas sent out was cubic feet, an increase of
  per cent over the send-out of the previous year. The
amount sent out this year has been corrected as to pressure and
temperatures, this being the first year that such corrections
have been made.

About feet of gas mains were laid, new gas services run and new gas meters set, making the total number
of gas meters in service,  The record of year ago,
shows that there were gas meters in service, or more
than there are in service at the present time. This is due tothe
fact that gas meters were removed from buildings because
they had not been used for some time, the owners having installed electricity. Of these meters, were reset upon

t
|
| |
  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT |
application of new consumers, so that actually, the gain in
consumers is  |
The office building at the Gas Works has been raised one
story and new laboratory erected and furnished with the nec- |
essary equipment to make daily tests of the gas and its by- |
products. chemist has been engaged to look after this work
and he is also required to test all supplies used in both the gas
and electric plants.
The contract has been awarded for the installation of a
coke conveyor, storage, crushing and sorting plant, and it is ex- |
pected that the plant will be ready to operate in few days. |
When this plant is in operation, the coke will be bagged and
sold locally in sizes suitable for stoves and furnaces.
A storage and an ammonia building have been erected at  
the easterly end of the coal shed and  Unger Ammonia |
Still has been installed. The building with the still and ammonia tank cost The still is designed to produce :
per cent concentrate, passing gallons of weak liquor per
hour and with an  -ounce liquor will take care of the ammonia |
from tons of coal in from eight to ten hours..
The new gas plant constructed year ago still remains unaccepted, because it has failed to do what the contractors guaranteed it would do in their contract with this Department.
Complaints about the gas pressure during meal times and
early evenings caused the Department to investigate the causes,
with the result that it has decided to materially increase the
size of the mains in the distributing system during the coming
year. It is intending to lay new mains and increase the size of
several of the mains in Elmwood, Oakdale, the Highlands and
South Holyoke. It is believed now, that this will be the most
important construction work in connection with the Gas Works
that will be undertaken during the coming year. |
Beginning February the price of gas will be redueed from  thousand ecubie feet, net, to cents thousand cubic feet, net.
When the City acquired the plant in December,  the

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
, price of gas was  thousand ecubie feet, net. The reduction which takes effect February will be the third reduction in the price of gas since the City acquired the plant.
The first reduction was made on May The price was
reduced from  to  thousand cubic feet, net, and the
next reduction was on December when the price was
reduced from  to  thousand cubic feet, net. It  s
expected that the reduction to cents will make difference
in the receipts of the Department of about  during
the year. |
ELECTRIC STATION.

At the Electric Station new K. W. Westinghouse
Parsons steam turbine with an ejector condenser, made by the
Deane Steam Pump of this City, has been installed at a
cost of about and new K. W. horizontal turbine of the Curtiss type has been installed to take the place of
the K. W. vertical turbine, put into the Station in  ,
and which had burned out and become inefficient.

Superheat has been provided to the Babcock Wilcox
boilers by the Power Specialty Company.

The dynamo building has been extended feet southerly
to the property line of the American Writing Paper Company.

The underground work started last year has been completed
and the total amount of money expended in underground work
to date amounts to .

The overhead wires in the section provided with underground service have been removed, and all the buildings within ™
said section have been connected with the underground system.

It would seem that the amount of money the City has expended in doing away with the overhead wires in this portion
of the City would justify the City in asking that the overhead

 feed wires owned by the Holyoke Street Railway Company, in
said section, be removed by placing them underground or loeating them in other streets.

|
|
: |
  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
For the extensions and additions to the Electric Station, !
$  was borrowed by the issue of serial bonds, the last ;
of which are payable in twenty years. With the exception of |
the amount so borrowed, all the permanent work at both the
Gas Works and Electric Station was paid for from the receipts
of the Department. The total amount paid for extensions and |
additions from the receipts of the Department during the past
year is .
With these new installations, the Station has capacity of
  horse-power,  addition to the horse-power water
plant which was in the Station when the City purchased the
plant in  .
During the year new electric meters were installed,
making the total number of electric meters now in service
 The eurrent generated amounted to kilowatts,
' and the eurrent sent out amounted to kilowatts.
The percentage of increase in the send-out for this year has been
less than for several vears past, probably due to the fact that a
nunber of our power consumers have not been running full
time in their factories. This has also had the effect of reducing our receipts, so that the receipts are not quite up to the |
amount it was estimated they would be at the beginning of the
year.
A contract has been made with the town of South Hadley,
which has established municipal plant, to supply said town
with its electricity. The contract runs for period of one vear,
beginning June and requires the town to pay cents
per kilowatt for electricity supplied, as measured on the switchboard at our Electrie Station. This Department is not responsible for the distribution of electricity within said town, as the
contract provides that the electricity shall be delivered to said
town at the town line.
As soon as the spring opens the work of imstalling new
lights will be commenced and luminous are lamps, similar to
those now used on Iligh Street will be placed on Main Street,
from Mosher Street to Sargeant Street.

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
During the first few years of municipal ownership of these
plants, the Department borrowed from the City money to pay
off its bonds. The amount the Department was indebted to
the City on April the date that the undersigned beeame Manager, was This indebtedness has been
reduced so that the amount the Department now
owes the City is .
When the new gas plant was commenced,  was
. borrowed on bonds. The new plant cost of which
$  was paid from the earnings of the plant, so that this
$  with the  returned to the City on the loan
account was taken from the receipts of the Department. This
$  was taken from the receipts of the Department in
about twenty months.

The financial statement shows an overdraft of about $-  at the end of the year, and we trust that the Department
will not be asked to pay off anything further on the loan aceount until the amount of the deficit ($ has been made good. It is hoped that the receipts of the Department during the
coming year will be sufficient to meet this deficit besides paying
all other obligations of the Department.

The following shows the financial transactions of the Department for the vear: |
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
Receipts, , 
Expenditures, .
Depreciation, . 
Bond Payments,  
Interest Payments,  
Additions to Plants,  
Operation and Maintenance,  
Total Expenditures, 
Excess of Receipts Over Expenditures, 

. REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT :
Taken from this Department by Vote |
of Board of Aldermen, -. |
Balance, . 
ADDITIONS TO PLANTS DURING THE YEAR.
Gas Real Estate, 
Machinery and Appliances,  
Gas Mains,  
Gas Meters,   ,
Additions to Gas Plant,  ——— 
Electric Real Estate, 
Electrie Plant, —.   |
. Electric Water Plant,  
Electrie Steam Plant,  
Electrie Lines (Overhead),  
Electrie Lines (Underground),  
Electrie Street Lights,  
Electric Transformers,  
Electric Meters,  
Additions to Electric Plant, —— 
Total Additions, 
Money provided for above additions as follows: |
Balance in Construetion Fund from  
Bond Issue, May .  
From Depreciation Cash,  
From Receipts,  
$ 

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
The following tables show the growth of the Department
since the City acquired the lighting plants:
 
Gas sent out, cubic feet,  
Gas meters set,  
Miles of main pipe laid, . 
Electricity sent out, Kilowatts (esti- .
mated for  ),  
Maximum power used H. P.,  
Number of customers,  
Number of electric meters set,  
Number of transformers set,  
Miles of wire in street,  
Poles in street,  
Capacity of station, H. P.,.  
Are street lights,  
Incandescent street lights, —.  
Price of are street lights, and 
Net price of gas per eubie feet,  
Net price of electricity per Kilowatt
(estimated ave. for  ), c
Dee.  Noy.  ,
 
Cost of plants,  
Book value of plants,  
Amount added to plants from loans in
twelve years,  
Amount added to plants from earnings
in twelve years,  
Bonds paid out of earnings,  

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
The following tables present data from the records of the
Gas Works:
Gas distributed, cubic feet,  
Coal carbonized, tons,  
Gas oil used, gallons,  
Coke made, tons,  
Coke used in producers, tons,  
Coke used in water gas generators, tons,  
Coke used in boilers, tons,  
Coke sold, tons,  
Tar made, gallons,  
Tar sold, gallons,  
Tar sold to City for highways, gallons,  
Ammoniacal liquor (weak) sold, gallons,  
Ammoniaecal liquor (concentrated) sold, pounds,  
GAS MAINS AND SERVICES.

Laid in  Total Laid.
  inch, feet
  feet 
Wy SS ‘‘
  SS ‘‘
 ‘' :
  ‘* ‘‘ ‘‘
  ‘‘ ‘‘
  ‘‘ ‘
  ‘‘ ‘'
  ‘‘ ‘
 ‘S
 ‘‘

  feet feet

Making total of miles laid.

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
GAS MAINS TAKEN UP OR ABANDONED.
Replaced by larger mains. 

  inch, feet Washington Ave., Taken up
  ‘‘ Elm St., Abandoned
 ‘‘ Williams St., Abandoned
Wy ‘S Fairfield Ave., Abandoned
wy  “' Canal St., Abandoned

Ww, ‘‘ Hampden St., Taken up

  ‘‘ Waldo St., Taken up
  ‘‘ Beacon Ave., Abandoned
 ‘‘ Sargeant St., Abandoned
  ‘‘C.I. Northampton St., Taken up

NUMBER OF GAS SERVICES RUN.
  inch, , . id
 ,  
NUMBER OF GAS METERS IN USE.

  light meters set December   sé éé oe €é  éé ce éé éé éé ce  éé ce éé €é cé oeé aéaé éé éé éé aé éé éé €é éé aé €é  Ge   cc   

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
  ce oc cs  oe ce Cé  
Regular meters set December  
Prepay meters set December  

Loss in meters set or  per cent.
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES.
November .
Superintendent, . i
Clerk, . idl
Engineer, , |
Chemist, to .  
Meter and complaint men,  
Foremen at works, .  
Foreman on street work, od
Water gas makers,    
Water gas helpers, .  
Retort house men, .  
Firemen at works, .  
Firemen at No. gasometer,  
Coke men, to hl,
Coal hoist and machinery,  
Ammonia, , il
street men, ,  )
Net price of gas  per thousand feet.

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
The following tables present data from the records of the
Electric Station:
Current generated, Kilowatts,  
Current sent out, Kilowatts,  
Total number of customers,  
Power customers,  
Miles of wire, ,  
Number of poles,  
Transformers in use,  
Meters set, ,  
Commercial are lamps,  
Street are lamps,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P. Tungste.,  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P. Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten,  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P.,  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P.,  
Steam coal used, tons,  PERMANENT EMPLOYEES. ;
Superintendent, .  
Clerk, .  
Foremen, .. ,  
Engineers, . oO
Oilers, —.. .  
Firemen, . d
Switchboard men, ,  
Trimmers, ,  
Line and repair men,  
Laborers, Lo .  
Machinists, ,  
Electricians, .  
D 
Net price of electricity for lighting six cents per Kilowatt.

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
PRICES OF ELECTRICITY IN FORCE
; NOVEMBER .

Rate of metered electricity for lighting cents per K. W.
Hour, with discount of cents per K. W. Hour, if paid
within ten days from date of bill. Minimum bill, cents per
month, with discount of cents, if paid within ten days from
date of bill.

Flaming ares, cents per K. W. Hour extra for maintenance. |

Rate for electric power, cents per K. W. Hour subject to
following discounts:

| DISCOUNTS.
Bills of  or less per mo.  
Bills from  to  per mo.  
Bills from  to  per mo.  
Bills from  to  per mo.  
Bills from  to  per mo.  C
Bills over 
NET RATES.

  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour |
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ects. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour

Minimum bill, cents per month, with discount of cents
if paid within ten days from date of bill.

 desk fan  per month.
 desk fan  per month.
  watt fan  per month.
Ceiling fan  per month.

a
REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
Above prices for six days. For seven days, add one-sixth.
Incandescent lights c. p. on contract.
Six or seven nights per week until p. m.,  per
year.
Seven nights per week run all night,  per year.
Ten per cent discount if paid within ten days from date of
bill.
  ec. p. the above prices.
  ce. p. the above prices.
  @. p. twice the above prices.
  e. p.to p. m.,  per year.
TUNGSTEN ARCS.
  Watt,  nightstoll p.m,  per year, net
  Watt, nights to p.m., per year, net
Contract sign lights, cents per K. W. Hour, net.
Charging automobile batteries at Electric Station, cents
and  each, net, according to size.
City oF HOLYOKE.
Ornamental street lamps (underground),  per year
Two cents per K. W. Hour for power and light.
Street ares, $  per year
Street p. ine,   per year
Street p. ine,   per year
Street Tungstens, watt, per year
Street Tungstens, watt, per year
Street Tungstens, watt, per year
Street Tungstens, watt, per year
Street Tungstens, watt, per year

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT |
BALANCE SHEET. .
ASSETS. ,
Depreciation cash, 
Bond eash,  
Interest cash,   |
Accounts receivable, gas,  
Accounts receivable, electric, —.  
; Accounts receivable, sundries,  
Accounts receivable, suspense, }
Current assets, ——  
Inventories, . 
Prepaid insurance,  
Total inventories, ——-—  
Gas real estate, 
Gas machinery and manufacturing
appliances,  
Gas mains,  
Gas meters and connections,  Total gas plant, ——§  
Electrie real estate, 
Eleetrie plant,  
Electric water plant,  
Electrie steam plant, 
Electrie pole lines, —.  
Electric underground lines,  
" Eleetrie are lights, —.  
Electric transformers,  

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
Electric meters,   
Electric incandescent street lights,  
. Total electric plant, ——  
Total assets, . 
LIABILITIES AND SURPLUS.
Cash overdrawn, 
Loan account, City of Holyoke, —
Accounts payable,  
Prepaid gas consumers,  
Bonds,  
Accrued interest on bonds,  
Total liabilities, ———— 
SURPLUS.
Balance November . 
Profit from operation of plants for
year ending November  
———— 
Total liabilities and surplus, 

{
|
| |
  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT .
GAS MANUFACTURING ACCOUNT YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER  |
Income.
Income from sales of gas, 
Income from meter rents,  
Total, ————— 
Manufacturing Expenses.
Gas coal, 
Gas oil,  
Gas steam coal,  
Puritying. |
Water,  
Wages,  
Repairs, real estate, 
Repairs at works,  
Tools,  
Laboratory expense,  
Wa.-r power rental, 
$  |
Deduct by product sales,
Coke, 
Tar,  
Ammonia,  
—————  
Manufacturing cost, ——$—— .
Repairs, gas mains,  
Repairs, gas meters,  
Distribution tools,  
Wages, meter readers,  
Distributing cost, ———  
Advertising,  
General salaries, .
General office expense,  
General expense,  
Insurance,  
Auto, horses and wagons,  
Depreciation,  
Interest,  
Less collections on bad debts.  
Commercial and General
Expenses,  
——————  
Net Profit—Gas, 

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
ELECTRIC MANUFACTURING ACCOUNT YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER .

, el ncome. )
Income from sales of electricity, 
Manufacturing Expenses.

Coal, ,  .
Oil and waste, |
Wages,  

Water power rental,  
Tools, Lge  

Repairs, real estate,  

Repairs, electric plant,  

Repairs, water plant,  

Repairs, steam plant,  

Water,  

Manufacturing Cost, ————. 
| Distributing Expenses.

Repairs, pole lines, 

Repairs, underground lines,  

Repairs, arc lights,  

Repairs, meters,  

Carbons,   
Incandescent, street lamps,  
Incandescent, commercial lamps,  
Globes,  

Care of Arc Lights,  

Wages, meter readers,  

Distribution, tools,  

Distributing Cost, ————  

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT .
Commercial and General Expenses.
Advertising, .  :
General salaries,  
General office expense,  
General expense,  
Insurance,  
Auto, horses and wagons,  
Depreciation,   .
Interest,  
Bad debts,  
.  .
Deduct premium on bond issue .
May took  
Commercial and General Expense, —————  
—————-..  
Net Profit—Filectricity, 

REP :
ORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
“ur Soo ce es
z  FS EE  e\ec
. esa   Se S
. gon rs oR o| 
Cas mag  on cS colon
ao  re  re)
ERD Land Oe] oS —
' an)  oO
; A
 Coal
Co Vn *
vA c
 v
  :
ze  ar:
c
+i  ae  
. bs  ps nu no pL
om cf S
a oO  Y
BS ae g
 why ”
; eo IW Fy Say  i
 waynr w“S RY  S
. a) om! Soh By am: man vn 
be
su Sa ao YD wy Y
. ‘mea fo. ees eRe gy aos oa 
f  oe 
a ged rae .
 -
 i)
:  eS oy |
  a
ce  Ys, wt .
S  ae :
— fC  ——
Z, as 
nw
& oO se
& pe  re
A  OS
  
A. sey ue re ek  be
es  Se
an (Aan rr] e
 
a ra
 tok mt mk wit om
. my aozos Son ann nn Do  ca oS MNOS Se SD
'  PY ee) or ome oy So nr ee
ym os BEERS GEG EEG EsS ERerSl eu ge sos
eS vygyey yyovoguovee Saenoaeer SSBBERS
ay »& foo
ws ad AAA et oe auemo 
— ne Re st tO ee
pal es re oe 
- on oe OE oe oe oe a
wo  ufSpseea on an on  Ptoe
»  ee. ct re wee Fe  mm  
‘ Fe we ke LP hem NO YT CT Scene ecs  *
, wer FCCLA:  OD a) see cd 
BQ CF aynennd aa  Test tts
an RO a
 a
 L£ eft  FSEBPeo STEESEEES FS SELSESZESEES SSSeeEE BEEER(E
  en  —— Ces  
S baSebst SB S se Stsets SteSse sels
 ae
bas al
r. .
a) om
 StS  Se -|@
  
ws gEcoc™mSs  ss 
Bescon FS vs ow S. S
Omnmt os S
F. paw NO 
rx Et “
*
lan mri? —)
et  :
SzzB GF FE  ™
x aoe Laan! io Leal  .
—
  '
z gar om oes aia og
[+] —
QW gs  EE Fe
Afo  
‘  ton za
ow Ee
woos SG ES Ss aa eo  SS  .N (oo on od a
& rm mt
.*f clUC OF
a Sae ath ow  ae mn S
a e
™oA .
Sie-
SF wm es 


  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE OF INVENTORIES USED IN CLOSING
) BOOKS, NOVEMBER .
Gas coal, , 
Gas steam coal,  
Gas coke,  
Gas oils,  
Gas purifying materials, —.  
Gas ammonia,  
Gas tar,  
Gas station tools,   :
Gas distribution tools,  
Gas repairs at works,  
Laboratory, 
Electrie steam coal,  
: Electric incandescent lamps, —.  
Electrie globes,  
Eleetrie carbons,  
Eleetrie oils and water,  
Kleetrie station tools,  
Eleetrie distmbution tools,  
Horses, wagons, automobiles,  
Printing, stationery and office,  
Insurance,  
Total inventories, ————- 

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
SCHEDULE OF DEPRECIATION, NOVEMBER .
Amount Depreciated

Gas real estate, $ 
Gas machinery and manufacturing appliances,  
Gas mains, .  
Gas meters, .  
Electric real estate,  
Electric steam plant, . 
Electric plant, .  
Electric pole lines,  
Electric underground lines,  
Electrie are lights,  
Electric transformers,  
Electric meters,  
Electric water plant,  
; Total, . 

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND |
LIABILITIES.
——
 
Assets Increase Decrease
Cash in depreciation fund,   
Cash in construction fund,  
Cash in bond payment. fund,  
Cash in interest pay’t fund,  
Accounts receivable, gas,  
Accounts receivable, electric,  . 
Accounts receivable, sundries,  
Inventories,  . 
Plant Accounts.
Gas, real estate,  . Gas, machinery and manufacturing appliances, , 
Gas, mains,  . 
Gas, meters connections,  . 
I:lectric, real estate,  . 
Klectric, steam plant,  . 
Electric, water plant,  
Eleetric plant.  . 
Ilectric lines overhead,  . 
Electric lines underground,  . 
Electric transformers,  
Klectric meters,  .  ,
Electric street lights,  . 
$    
Increase in assets, 
Liabilities.
Operation fund overdrawn, 
City of Holyoke loan acct.,  . 
Prepaid gas consumers,  
Accounts pavahle, 
Bonds outstanding,  , 
$    
Increase in liabilities, 
Increase in assets, 
Increase in lhabilities,  
Net gain, 

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
COMPARATIVE COST PER CUBIC FEET OF GAS
 
Production Sold—Cubic Feet, Production Sold—Cubic Feet,  
Gas coal,  
Gas steam coal, 

: Gas oil,  
Purifying,  
Water, 
Water power rental,  
Wages, . 
Repairs real estate, 
Repairs at works,   
Tools, -. 
Laboratory expenses,  

$  
Deduct by-products:—
Coke,  
Tar,  
Ammonia,  
Manufacturing cost,  
Repairs, gas mains,  
Repairs, gas meters,  
Distribution tools, 
Wages, meter readers, . 
Distributing cost,  $u. 
Bad debts, 
Coke,  
Advertising, 
General salaries, . 
Othce expenses,   
General expense,  
Insurance, 
Autos, horses, wagons,  
Depreciation,  
Interest,  
$  
Deduct collections on
bad debts,  
$   
Totals,  
Manufacturing cost,  
Distributing,  
Overhead,  
Cost per cubic feet,  

|
|
  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
, COMPARATIVE COST PER FEET GAS. |
Manufacturing Increase Decrease
Gas coal,  
Gas steam coal, 
Gas oil,  
Purifying,  
Water, !
Water power,  
Wages,  
Repairs, real estate,  
Repairs, at works, 
Tools, 
Laboratory,  
Deduct sales of by-products:
Coke, 
Tar,  
Ammonia,  
Distributing
Repairs, gas mains,  
Repairs, gas meters,  
Distribution, tools,  
Wages, meter readers, 
. 

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT Increase Decrease
Overhead
Bad debts,  
Coke,  
Advertising,  
General salaries,  
Office expense, 
General expense, 
Insurance,  
Autos, horses and wagons,  
Depreciation, 
Interest, 
)  
Recoveries
Bad debts, 
wiol 
Totals,  
Decrease, 
Gas Sales,  
Profit per M,  

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
COMPARATIVE KILOWATT PRODUCTION.
  ,
Cost |
Production—Kilowatts, KW KW per KW
Coal,   |
 Oil and waste, 
Wages, . 
Water power rentals,    
Water, :
Repairs, real estate, )
Repairs, electric plant, .
Repairs, water plant,  )
Repairs, steam plant,  )  
Tools,  
Cost Manufacturing,  |
Repairs, transformers,  |
Repairs, pole lines,   |
Repairs, underground, 
Repairs, arc lights, 
Care of arc lights,  
Carbons,  . 
Globes,  
Incandescent street lamps,  
Incandescent commercial lamps, .  
Repairs, meters,    
Wages, meter readers, . 
Distribution, tools, 
Cost Distribution,   
Overhead Expenses. t
Advertising, 
Insurance,   
General salaries, . 
General office expense,   
General expenses,   
Auto, horses and wagons, . 
Interest, .  

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
Depreciation,   
Bad debts, 

$ 
Premium on bonds,  
| 
Cost Com’l Gen’l Exp.,  
Recoveries—  
Decrease—  
$  
K Production:
( W
( W
Manufacturing,  
Distributing.  
Overhead,  
Total cost per W, Total,  
COMPARATIVE COSTS.
Per Kilowatt Increase Decrease
Manufacturing:
‘Coal, $. $.  $. 
Oil and waste, 
Wages,  
Rentals, water power,  
Water, 
Repairs, real estate,
Repairs, electric plant,
Repairs, water plant,  
Repairs, steam plant,
Tools,  
Manufacturing,  
Cost per KW,  
Reduction per KW,  

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
oo Increase DecreaseDistribution:
Repairs, transformers,  .
Repairs, poles, 
Repairs, underground,  
Repairs, arc lights, Care, arc lights, 
Carbons, .
Globes,  
Incandescent street lamps,  
Incandescent com. lamps, 
Repairs, meters, 
Wages, meter readers, 
Distribution, tools, 
Cost Distribution per KW,  .
  
Reduction per KW, 
Overhead:
Advertising, 
Insurance, 
Salaries, 
General office,  
General expense,  
Auto, horses and wagons,  
Interest,  
Depreciation, :
Bad debts, —-  
Overhead per KW, .
  
Increase per KW,  
Production KW master meter,  
Sales,  
Receipts per KW, 
Cost per KW,  .
Profit per KW, 
Premium on bonds,  
Total profits,  

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
GAS COMPARATIVE GROSS TOTALS.
Manufacturing Cost Increase Decrease
Gas coal,   
Gas steam coal,  . 
Gas oil,  . 
Purifying,  
Water,  
Water power rental,  
Wages,  . 
Repairs, realestate,  
Repairs at works,  . 
Tools,  
Laboratory expense,  
$    
Less by-products :—
Coke,  
. Tar,  
Ammonia,  . 
$ 
Distributing Cost
Repairs, gas mains,  . 
Repairs on meters,  . 
Distribution tools,  
Wages, meter readers,  
$  
Overhead
Bad debts,  
Coke,  
Advertising,  
Salaries,  
Office expense,  
General expense,  
Insurance,  
Autos, horses,
and wagons,  
Depreciation,  
Interest,  . 
$    
Bad debt recoveries,  
$    
$  , 
Net increase cost,   Production, cubic fect.
  Production, cubic feet.
Net increase production, cubic feet.
Net increase cost, .

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
COMPARATIVE GROSS TOTALS. |
|
  Increase Decrease
Coal, 
Oil and waste,  
Wages,  
Water power, rentals,  . 
Water,  
Repairs, real estate,  
Repairs, electric plant,  
Repairs, water plant,  
Repairs, steam plant,  
Tools,  
Repairs, transformers,  
Repairs, pole lines,   |
Repairs, underground,  
Repairs, arc lights,  
Care of arc lights,  
Carbons,  
Globes,  
Incandescent street lamps,  
Incandescent com. lamps,  . 
Repairs, meters,  . 
Wages, meter readers,  
Distribution, tools,  
Advertising,  
Insurance,  
General salaries,  . 
General office,  . 
General expense,  . 
Autos, horses and wagons,  
Interest.  . .

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT Increase Decrease
Depreciation,  . 
Bad debts,  
$  
Recoveries,  
Premium bonds,  
$   
Reduction,  
COMPARATIVE OF SALES.
  Increase Decrease
Gas sales, 
Electric sales,  .  ,
Totals, 
COMPARATIVE OF MANUFACTURING EXPENSES.
Gas, 
Electric,  
Totals,  , 
Net Decrease,  
Net increase in sales, 
Net decrease in manufacturing, 
Increase in profits for  
Profits year ending Nov.  |
Profits year ending Nov.  
Increase in profits for  
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK,
Manager.
e

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
|
AUDITOR'S STATEMENT.
DECEMBER .
Mr. John J. Kirkpatrick, Manager,
Holyoke Gas Electric Department,
Holyoke, Mass.

Dear Sir:

We have audited the accounts of the Holyoke Gas Electrie Department for the year ending November and
as result of our examination, we hereby certify that the attached Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss and Comparative Statements are correct statements of the condition of the Holyoke
Gas and Electric Department, based upon the inventories as
submitted by the Department.

Respectfully submitted,
WALTER W. EATON CO., INC.,,
By C.  LYONS,
Certified Public Accountants.

REPORT OF THE
Playground Commissioners
Holvoke, Mass., November .
To the Honorable Mayor and Board of Aldermen,
Holyoke, Mass.:

GENTLEMEN: In submitting report for the season of
 the Playground Commission would respeetfully call
attention to the very interesting and detailed report of Mr.
P. H. Kelly, the Supervisor, attached herewith. We may perhaps emphasize some points of that report which might otherwise escape the attention which they deserve, and to add a
few recommendations which we feel should be considered for
the coming season.

Two important extensions of the Playground activities
have characterized the year  viz., the aequirement of additional land in the vicinity of the Morgan School at an expense of about and the leasing of the Prospect Athletic Field adjoining the Hampden street grounds.

The Superintendent of Playgrounds recommends
strongly that two rooms in each of the school buildings be
given for the use of the Playground Commission the coming
summer for playground purposes. |

The Morgan School space has been great Improvement
over the Main street tract which was previously leased of the
Holyoke Water Power Company, and which was found unsuitable for playground work.

Baths should now be placed in the Morgan School which
could be available in the same way as the baths in the William Whiting Sehool Building. We understand that this has

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
been discussed very fully by the school authorities and the
Board of Pubhe Works; and we earnestly recommend that
such equipment be supplied for the summer of  The
great importance of the bath facilities to the children in the
vicinity of the William Whiting School during the past two
years or more is in itself sufficient answer to anyone who
might eriticize the expense. While on this point, attention
should be ealled to the recent letter from the School Board
to the effect that the matron and assistants having charge of
the baths in the schoolhouses should be paid from the Playground appropriation rather than from the school appropriation and suggest that in the future this be arranged. In this
event, the School Board ‘‘gives its assurance that its budget
will be decreased by an equal sum.’’
During the coming year, the engine house adjoining the
William Whiting School will doubtless be abandoned and it
should be torn down, allowing this play space for the children in this congested vicinity, unless it seems advisable that
some trial be made to use it as social center. Should the latter plan be thought desirable, the Playground Commission
would be glad to supervise its operation.
The other most important feature of the activity
is to be found in the fine PROSPECT ATHLETIC FIELD
the use of which has been arranged with the Holyoke Water
Power Company at very nominal rate. This property has
been graded at considerable expense, and it is earnestly hoped
that an arrangement can be made by which it can be permanently acquired for an athletie field. Its outlook on the
river and mountains could hardly be equaled, and, at the
sume time, it is in district where the noise and disturbance
would cause the minimum amount of eriticism. We cannot
too strongly recommend the permanent securing of this field
in the near future.
The use of Newton Pond for skating was very much enjoved last winter, although there was some delay in getting
it started, and the snow came rather too soon to make it of

) REPORT OF PLAYGROUND CUMMISSIONERS  
maximum value. We trust the coming winter will give us a
longer skating period at this very desirable point, as there
are too few places in our city where this very enjoyable sport
could be safely indulged in by old and young. The development of baths in the summer in this same pond might perhaps be considered by the incoming commission.

There is sufficient land adjoining many of our schools,
such as the Highland School, Elm Street School, Springdale
School and others where very excellent work could be done
by one paid worker. This space should not be overlooked,
and it is recommended that some provision be made in the 
budget for which will permit of this extension to our
work.

The evening supervision which has been tried during
the past vear with great suecess should also be extended as
it materially adds to the value of our grounds.

The city of Holyoke has expended for its playgrounds
and improvements the sum of and in addition has
other tracts of land adjoining schoolhouses which can be
developed along similar lines. We would strongly recommend to your Honorable Board that sufficient sum be appropriated for to imsure the maximum return from
this very generous investment. Every hour that the grounds
are without supervision is almost lost so far as the interests
of the child are concerned, and it is hoped that at an early
date some supervised play will be found in the vicinity of all
of our schools both morning and afternoon.

Many of our citizens look upon our Commission as having charge of all play activity on city property, not distinguishing between playgrounds on the Public Parks and those
which are now under our supervision. It seems logical that
the Playground Commission should have charge of all such
activities on City Property wherever located. We do not
bring the matter up with the idea of interfering with the
province of the Park Commission, but perhaps some plan

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS

could be arranged between both commissions by which the |
desired results could be brought about. Should this seem

advisable, the Park Commission can be assured of our hearty

co-operation.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK B. TOWNE,
Chairman.


