REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
COM MERCIAL.
Belding Commercial Correspondence
Brigham Commercial Geography
Daly Advanced Rational Speller
Davis and Lingham Commercial English
Eldridge Shorthand Dictation Exercises
Fritz-Eldridge Expert Typewriting
Gano Commercial Law
Isaac Pitman Course in Shorthand
Klein Elements of Accounting
Knox Salesmanship and Business Ef ficieney
Van Tuyl Complete Business Arithmetic
Williams and Rogers Modern I}lustrative Bookkeeping )
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Banking
COOKING.
Kline and Cooley Focds and Household Management
Norton Food and Dicteties )
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Halleck History of American Literature
Halleck History of english Literature
" EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
Chancellor Standard Short Course for
Evening Schools
Crampton Hygiene for Workers
Field and Covenay English for New Americans
O’Brien English for Foreigners, Books
I and II
Powers Complete Speller
Price Direct Method of Teaching
English
Prior and Ryan How to Learn English
Rafter City and Town
Winslow United States

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
Eldridge Shorthand Dictation Exercises
Ewart, Field and Morrison Civil Service Manual
Isaac Pitman Course in Shorthand
MeDonald Foundations in English
Rowe Bookkeeping
Teller and Brown Business Methods
Van Tuyl Complete Business Arithmetic
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping
Williams and Rogers Modern Illustrative Banking
EVENING VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
' Folton Shop Mathematics

PART X.
GRADUATING CLASSES— 
HIGH SCHOOL.
Christine Elaine Adams Ella Levenson
Doris Belle Ainley Greta Elizabeth Loomis
Anna Barger Harold Francis Lynch
, Carlton Robert Baush Joseph Francis Lynch

Mabel Emma Baush Charles James Lyons
Rachel Bean Edward John Lyons
Leo Edward Beaulieu Gertrude Marie Mackey
Reid Oswald Besserer Frances Lillian Maher
Edith M. Bliss Joseph Francis Mangum
James Stuart Bliss Anthony Howard Manley
Chester Cornwell Bond Esther Helen Martin
Irene Claire Bowler John Patrick Martin
Katherine Elizabeth Bowler Yvette Marguerita Martineau
Alice Constance Bradley Maurice Mason
Kathleen Loretta Bresnahan Charlotte Edna McCorkindale
Esther Hildergarde Browne Harold Everett McCormick
Gertrude Florence Browne Arthur James McDonald
Samuel Albert Brunelle Viola MeGuiggan
William Lester Brunt John C. Joseph McLean
Eva Constance Buckley John Gerald McNaught
Rowland Budd Margaret Goode Metcalf
Irving Edward Bullard John Francis Moriarty
Margaret Frances Callahan Rufus Everett Morehouse
Frederick Harold Cary George Rankin Murphy
Frederick William Celce Ellen Katherine Murray
Romeo Philip Charest Mary Agatha O’Connell
Francis Peter Clark Alice Katherine O’Connor
Mary Elizabeth Cleary John Patrick O’Connor

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Herman Cohen Raymond Joseph O’Donnell
Edith Dorothea Conway Mary Margaret O’Grady
William Leo Conway Mary Elizabeth O’Reilly
Michael Vineent Crane Richard Walker O’Rourke
James Francis Cunniff Doris Snell Patee
Francis Maurice Curran Flossie Adele Pearson

; Rose Frances Daly Iva Beatrice Pearson
Elizabeth Davies Helen Louise Pellissier
Elois Martha Davis Eva Eveline Plante
Robert Burtwell Dearden Gordon Aloysious Powers
Willard Edward Dickinson Laura Bickford Prilay
Marie Kathryn Dillon Ruth Alice Prouty
Ruth Adelaid Dolan Dorothy Whedon Rasey
Robert Grant Dooley Elliott John Reed
Gertrude Marie Duggan Musette Lucréce Rodier
Anna Louise Dunn Beatrice Emma Ryan
Helen Mary Dwight John Arthur Savoy
Katherine Hanley Franz Jean Marie Sawin
Margaret Cecelia Freeman Lucy Erskine Sawyer
Ruth May Gabler Bertha Lillian Seanlon
Eliza Gaylord Kdward John Schuster
Francis Moses Gaylord Rachel Elizabeth Scully
Minnie Gwendolin Getler Loretta Dorothea Shea
Eva Agnes Girard Mary Margaret Shea
John Robert Jerome Gordon John LeRoy Sheehan
Pauline Gordon Mary Ellen Sheehan
Anna Gertrude Gorman Homer Mercer Sinclair
Grace Imelda Greaney Lillian Mae Smith
Tsrael Greenspan Vineent Anderson Smith
Anna Elizabeth Griffin Philip Huntley Stacy
Helen Consuella Haley Ralph Waldo Stedman
Elisabeth Platt Hannum Ella Mary St. Jacques
Abraham Hirseh Frances Worthington Steele
Kathryne Gertrude Hogan Lillian Alice Sullivan
Joseph Norton IIogan John Joseph Sullivan
William Munro Hooks Mary Agnes Sullivan
Olive Katherine Horrigan P. Henry Sullivan

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Lillian Mabel Howes Louise Thayer
Stanley Howard Howes Frances Leota Thorpe
Oliver Wesley Hutchinson Mary Gertrude Tierney
Harold Hunter Judson Grace Luella Treworgy
Constance Kelton Edward Vernier
Robert David Kennedy Harriet Eaton Webber
Mary Constance Keyes Isabel Gracey Weis
Mary Regina Kirkpatrick Mary Genevieve Wesley
Hugh Joseph Lacey Madeline Whitten
Alfred Sisson Ladd Edna Wilson
Allin Wilbur Ladd Sarsfield James Wolohan
Lilhan Katherine Langhauser James Howard Wright
Madeline Helen Lawrence

HIGHLAND SCHOOL.

Harold Franklin Abbott Gerald John King
Robert Burnette Adains William John Lally
Mary Theresa Allen Elsie Lee
Agnes Rachel Allen Leotine Crystel Luce
Raymond Robert Armitage Dorothy Mary Lynch
Florence Evelyn Avery Mary Theresa Mahoney
Athleen Barkley William Francis Markey
Gordon Clifford Barnes John Henry McGough
Mary Ellen Bell Catherine Adelaide McDonald
Helen Bentley Bogart Florence Ethel Moré
Beulah Ethel Boyd Donald Francis Mullen
Frank Edmund Buckley Austin Edward Mulqueeny
Arthur White Cain William Edward Nolen
William Francis Carey Wilham Francis Noonan
Gladys Claire Chevalier Thomas Daniel O’Brien
Ruth Helen Clark Jessie Dykes Patton
Irene Elizabeth Cook Elmer Donald Pope
Roy Edward Cray Ernest Everett Pope
Harolde Thompson Dibble Milford Rathbun
Mary Frances Dillon Harold John Riggott
John Aloysius Duffy Emile Roberts
Richard Kilton Eastman Rosario Theodore Roberts

!

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Phoebe Baker Eaton Turner Earle Rollinson
Archibald Wolf’den Ferguson Arthur Ferdinand Root
Mary Magdelaine Foley Irene Eleanor Russell
Marjorie Irving Foster Albert Wilham Shaw
Margaret Agnes Flynn Rowland Francis Shea
Mary Margaret Flynn Ralph Grayvham Sheaffer |
Bernard Edwin Gee Raymond Arthur Smith
Grace Amilda Gee Harold James Stewart
Johanna Irene Geran Ralph Joseph Thompson
Robert Melbourne Gero George Thornton
Alice Loretta Gilligan Ruth Brooks Treworgy
Rose Christina Gilligan Ella Mackintosh Valentine
Howard George Greaney Norman Clark Whitaker
Earl Charles Green Abraham Weinburg
David Loomis Green Charles Emanuel Weinburg
Cecil Jerome Haggerty Beatrice Cosby Williamson
Cornelius Warren Haley Walter Thomas Wilson
Marion Evelyn Hickey Katherine Theresa Wolohan
Gertrude Genevieve Hinds Marion Magdelaine Wolohan
Clair Ilvnes Catherine Woodruff ,
Doris Mabel Johnson Francis Bernard Woods |
Joseph Judson Edison Roosevelt Young
Thomas Joseph Keane

JOSEPH METCALF SCILTOOL.
Henry James Baker  Mary Winifred Maher
Roy Joseph Baker Mildred Janet Maher
Alice Christine Begley Herman Carl Martin
Mary Grace Bleasius Howard Francis MeCormick
Kapple Bloome Nora Elizabeth McCormick !
Pauline Finila Boardway Jane Margaret MeLean
James Bower, Jr. John Elmer Moriarty
Ralph Wilham Burkhardt Bruce Mourier Mossman
Marion Mildred Clarenbach John Neill
Lawton Cleveland Joseph Patrick Newell
Mary Agnes Collins Payson Taft Newton ,
James Henry Conway Benjamin Odabasham



REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Herbert Irving Coon Wilham O’Leary
Charles Curtin Anna Mary O’Neill
Claude Elwin Davis Mildred Peterson
Harold Wayne Dean Agnes Kerr Phillips
Lewis Everett Dickinson Leon Vincent Quigley
Dorothy Winthrop Dolan May Simpson Reid
Frederic Emil Dreicorn Olive Lucy Revett
Herman Dugroo Edwin Julius Richter
Josephine Agnes Equi Maybelle Emma Richter
Dorothy May Farr Carl Waldemar Ruhlin
Madeline Margaret Flaherty Effie Dorris Sampson
Gertrude Elizabeth Ferry Dorothy Anna Schumm
Adolph Ferdinand Gerbhardt Donald James Shea
Edwin Carl Goehring Sarah Skolnik
John Philip Gorman Justin Reynolds Slate
Harold August Gruenert Henry Astley Stephen
Doris Helen Hagens Elizabeth Grace Stewart
Florence Mildred Hardaker Howard Sumner Stimpson
Henry William Harre Florence Viola Sullivan
Mary Louise Anna Henderson Aaron Henry Tarsclies
Charles Keane Israel Milton Tarsches
Donald Osgood Kennedy Alice Ethelinda Taylor
Edith Rachel Kennedy Ray Howard Trowbridge
Francis John Kennedy Erna Helen Esther Wassel
Harold Richard Kinley Frank Hawley Wood
Frank Theodore Koehler Karl Gustav Wilms
Mary Jones Lamont Stanley William Worth
Katherine Miles Le Poer Howard Gilbert Young
Cecelia Levenson

LAWRENCE SCHOOL.
Julius Harold Barger Mary Agnes Kane
Minnie Richmond Barger Mary Louise Elaine Kennedy

Bertha Margaret Bathelt Ruth Anne King
Constance Bean Anna Theresa Kloskowski
Jeanette Esther Beauregard Hattie Augusta Louise Krause
Raymond Anthony Bearg Aurore Blanche Lamagdalaine

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Wilfrid Beauregard Esther Brooks Landfare
Beatrice Bentley James Francis Langlois
Gertrude Rhoda Bilz Raymond Joseph Larrow
Henry Ernest Bourassa Esther Pauline Lubold

 Mimam Cecelia Broudy Thelma Neola Loomis
Lillian Mabel Broeker Alta Mae Lyman
Allan James Burnett Harry Daniel Marks
Margaret Austania Cady Harold Leroy MeManus
Duncan Bower Cameron Arthur John McCabe
Elizabeth Marie Catlett Orval Thomas McGuiggan
Elwyn Dexter Clark Thomas Joseph Mew
George Leitch Clark Carlene Mariel Tren’em Millar
Helen Frances Clark Alice Ouida Moore
George Pennell Cobb Della Christine Moore
Alexander McDougal CochraneMary Frances Murphy
Harold Francis Jerome Cray Anna Louise O’Connell
Mary Kathryn Cummings James John O’Connor
John Raymond Cunniff James Vincent O’Connor
Margaret Elizabeth Dempsey John William O’Neill
James Thomas Donoghue Vera Agnes Osborne
Kathryn Marie Dowlin Christopher Mario Pasquinucei
Mary Veronica Driscoll James Thomas Pattison
Edward Francis Duggan Elphege Onesime Pelland
Armand Joseph Durocher Henry Pendergast
Murray John Fay Osear Theodore Perron
George Joseph Feldman David Rider Peck Rhoades
Eileen Marie Fitzgerald Beatrice May Richards
Leanore Elizabeth Fitzgerald Cecile Simonne Rodier
Emily Philip Forbes Herbert Francis Rose
Kenneth Everett Fortune Madeline Elizabeth Ross
William Remsay Fraser Elizabeth Mary Rushworth
Catherine Alice Gleason Viola Ada Schwartz
Henrietta Goepner Gertrude Edith Shea
Rachel Elizabeth Goss Mary Ellen Shea
Mildred Olive Graves Ella Stevens
Wallace Kallaugher Graves Samuel Joseph St. Martin
Mary Agnes Griffin Mary Gertrude Sullivan

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
James Joseph Hancock Ernest Joseph Tacy
Loretta Margaret Jean Hanley Sarah Laura Thompson
Andrew Thomas Healy Grace Elizabeth Tierney
Milton Oliver Hill Philip Joseph Toye
Henry George Horn Helen Chapin Twing
Jennie Housen Muriel Frances Justine White
Gertrude Marie Eliz'th Kane Howard Francis Jas. Williams

MORGAN SCHOOL.

Jeremiah Joseph Aubrey Lillian Kress
Rosia Rasalma Bacon Lena Lebreeque
Hector McDonald Bain Viola Blanche Lalonde
Aline Beauchamp Emma Frances Laramay
Albina Belanger Daniel Leo Lathrop
Isador Berkowitz Mary Agnes Lenarcen
Dora Berman John Joseph Lynch
Alphonse Francis Bissel Hildegard Clara Martin
Ervin William Bresnahan Anna Mary Maurer
Henrietta Lena Brunelle Bernard Patrick James May
Erna Ida Brunn Ruth Evelyn McCarthy
Meyer Caplan Paul Homer McKenzie
Lilhan Viola Carl George Joseph Meckel
Rene Alice Charbonneau Eva Mekler
Frederick Thomas Clements Walter Henry Mesehke
Sadie Cohen Marion Claire Morris
Anna Theresa Concannon Edith Elizabeth Musante
Daniel Francis Costance Marion Milda Mutter
Raymond Earl Creran Blanche Lilhan Nadeau
Antoinette Dietrich Emma Caroline Nelson
Frank DHlon IIattie Neumann
Mabel Elizabeth Duncan Antonio Eugene Pariseau
Rosamond Rose Fagnant Harry Persky
Walter Adolph Felsentrager Blenda Peterson
Helen Augusta Flath Elizabeth Phillips
Inlly Margaret Flath Emma Pomper
Celesta Fontaine Amy Sheard Pratt
Hyman Friedman Frieda Johanna Raithel

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Benjamin Ganzue Rachel Reba Resnick
. William John Giehler Louise Augusta Resche
Hertha Evelyn Geissler Florence Mary Rowe
Henry Conrad Gingras Philip Frank Rubin
William Joseph Gorham Armand Senay |
Robert McDonald Goss Alice Ellen Silvain
Elfreida Haller Hildegard Silmsky
} Sarah Louise Hanretty Sarah Skolnik
Ella Clara Hartling Henry Wilham Spinks
William Walter Heinicke Marie Catherine Sullivan
Emil Julius Henry Henneman Edward Wilham Theilig
Richard William ILerre Mary Esther Vogel
Frederick William Hilbert Steven Wargo
Agnes Gertrude Kennedy Sarah Wiener
Mary Eva Konrad James Henry Wynn
Elizabeth Marie Krahenbild
WEST STREET SCHOOL.
John Joseph Bober Raymond Joseph McGinnis
Dorothy May Bradford Mae Bernice Mullen
Bessie Marie Castor Arthur Francis O’Connor :
Adrien Francis Chaput Irene Verna Perron
Anna May Clark Rene Odilon Quenneville |
Anna Agnes Costello Dorothy Ricklas |
Edwin Stephen Driscoll Rachel Ruth Rowland |
James Aloysius Griffin Thomas Frederick Ryan |
Luella Harriet Guillerie Harold Edward Stacy |
James Henry Halliday Rolland Floremond Stebbins |
Dorothy Charlotte Holzmann Andrew Steele, Jr.
Eva Irene Julien John Joseph Whalen
Leonard Mareus Lillian Franees Wilson
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL. ,
George Frederick Abelein Thomas Jackson
John Denis Begley Carolyn Olive Kenfield
David Ernest Brearley Earl Joseph Keeler
Margaret Mary Crane William Joseph Kreuter

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

Nora Rose Cadigan Lillian Murphy: —
Ellen Christianson Anna Frances McSweeney
Mary Cecilia Cassidy Flora Cecilia Mareott
Michael Joseph Doherty Pearl Marie Martin
George Edward Dineen George Anthony Parent
Richard Edward Ellert William Bernard Rogers
Charles Augustine Foster Rebecca Ricklas
Bertha Frances Gannon James Robertson Sinelair
Helen Gavron Thomas Ilugh Sinelair
George Adolph Gottsmann Stanley Herbert Smith

| George Granger Clarence James Sullivan
Alfred Peter Granger Bridget Louise Sullivan
Oliver Charles Gadbois Mollie Aloysia Sheehan
Georgina Gow Houston Arthur Carl Weissbach
Peter Francis Harris Constant Constant Young
Cornelius William Healey

LAWRENCE EVENING SCHOOL.

Ledor Joseph Bascom Pauline Koss
Victor Beaudry Alexander Louis Kurnik
Lilhan Bertha Benoit Delia Lena Laine
Joseph Brodlie Alberta Lefebvre
Howard Leonard Burns Yvonne Cecilia Lefebvre
Helen Catherine Campbell John Hobson Lowe
Alice Elizabeth Claire Daniel Thomas Lyons
Robert Pierce Clements Helen Cecilia Mahoney
Emma Catherine Coutu Bertha Malkin
Stella Daniels Rose Irene Malkin
Edna Mabel Degraffe Evelyn Edwidge Mandeville
Mary Agnes Doherty Romeo Victor Moquin
Laura Permelia Dufresne Gladys Irene Murray
Stella Mary Dymalawski John O’Connor
Nicholas Finn Michael Joseph O’Connor
Thomas Finn Clayton Howard Pfersick
Mary Agnes Fitzgerald Armand Wilfred Ponton
Franeis John Griffin Emile Francis Sansoucie
Mabel Estelle Halloran Catherine Theresa Shea

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Irene Beatrice Hart Catherine Irene Shea
John Francis Joyce Gertrude Magdalene Sears
Patrick James Kane Margaret Mildred Shepard
Joseph Casimir Kazalski Ruth Elizabeth Taylor
Irene Elizabeth Kennedy Helen Louise Wynn
Elizabeth D. Knapik
MORGAN EVENING SCHOOL.

Rose Helena Benoit Blanche Rose Labonte
Eugene Coderre Bernadette Langlois
Bertha Bernadette Cumtois Sylvio Hildege Lavallee
Blanche Beatrice Comtois Helen Odna Lesage
Charles Ferdinand Faulseit Madeline Rena McNamee
Henry Fontaine Parmelia Josephine Martelle |
Leo Fontaine Esther Veronica Mead |
Joseph Donat Forget Rose Milner |
Georgianna Cecila Fournier Charles Francis Mitler |
Joseph Robert Fusari Mary Alice Moreau !
Emile Gloksin Charles Joseph Moriarty
Ida Gloksin Kathemne Nicholas
Helen Rollande Guertin Kurt Emil Peterhansel
Mary Elizabeth Hansrath Arthur Pronovost :
Allen Henderson Walter Rosazzo
Ellen Luey Huchynska John Joseph Shea
Margaret Mary Keenan Rose Taylor |
Charles Kemp Yvonne Rose Tourigny
Wallace Kemp Julius William Weiland :

WEST STREET EVENING SCHOOL. .
Eva Mary Arel Esther Maria Huot
Agnes Theresa Burns Amanda Eva Labarre ,
Lillian Blanche Chaput Amanda Delia Lacasse
Rose Helen Clark Regina Victoria LaChance
Joseph Napoleon Daviau Georgianna Margaret Miller
Ora Delia Demers Mary Agnes Monahan
Julia Veronica Doherty Eva May Patenaude

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Theresa Verna Fleming Armand Louis Quenneville
Mary Alphonsine Gagnon Raoul George Quenneville
Florence Rose Gregoire Genevieve Veronica Ryan
Helen Margaret Griffin Aime Salois
Helen Veronica Hagerty Ruby Ilda Savage

OF THE
OF THE :
To the Mayor, Aldermen, School Board and Citizens of Holyoke:
At meeting of the Board of Trustees held on March  ,
 this complete report was presented, accepted and ordered printed. It is divided into eight parts, as follows:
PART I. Organization of the School Board, Board of Trustees,
standing committees, advisory committees; time of
meetings, terms, office hours and school calendars. |

PART II. Report of Committee on Annual Report from Board of
Trustecs to City Government.

PART III. Report of Secretary and Director to Board of Trustees.

PART IV. Statistical report covering matters of finance attendance, occupations, accounts, etc.

PART V. Reports on the Development of Courses of Study, by
Department Heads. .

PART VI. How Vocational School must Study the Industries of
its City, exemplified in Charted Study of the PaperMaking Industry in Holyoke.

PART VII. Organization and roster of the Vocational School on
March .

PART VIII. Roster of Day School Pupils on March .

FOREWORD

VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IS FORM OF EDUCATION WHOSE PURPOSE IS TO TRAIN AN INDIVIDUAL IN SOME DEGREE TO FOLLOW SUCCESSFULLY RECOGNIZED EMPLOYMENT. SUCH EDUCATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THOSE WHO HAVE
DETERMINED THEIR AIM IN LIFE, THOSE WHO
ARE READY TO BE GUIDED, AND TO THOSE ALREADY ENGAGED IN PROFITABLE EMPLOYMENT.

INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION IS FORM OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION WHOSE AIM IS TO FIT FOR A
SPECIFIC TRADE IN ANY INDUSTRIAL EMPLOY|| MENT.

PRACTICAL ARTS EDUCATION HAS FOR ITS

AIM THE TRAINING OF EFFICIENT HOME-MAKERS.

PART I.
The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for the
year is as follows: |
Term Expires
At Large DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, January, !
/ JOSEPH B. WEIS, January,  
Ward  —MICHAEL GRANFIELD, January,  
Ward  —VICTOR MESSIER, January,  
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH, January, |
Ward  —PATRICK SHEA, January,  
Ward  —JOHN J. O'CONNOR, January,  
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH, January,  
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS, January,  
HON. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
The authorization of the Holyoke Vocational School is
derived from certain acts of the Massachusetts Legislature
and from an ordinance of the City of Holyoke.
The organization of the Board of Trustees for Vocational
Education for was as follows:
Term Expires
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Brown Avenue, January,  
WILLS M. FLEMING, Maple Street, January,  
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chestnut Street, January,  
FREDERICK S. WEBBER, Sycamore Street, January,  
JOHN J. O'CONNOR, Clinton Avenue, January,  
EDWIN D. WELLS, Walnut Street, January,  
MRS. CHARLES A. CHASE, Pearl Strect, January,  
JOSEPH B. WEIS, Cleveland Street, January,  
DENNIS F. LYNCH, Chestnut Street, January,  
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
The organization of the Board of Trustees for Vocational
Education for is as follows:
Term Expires
FREDERICK S. WEBBER, Sycamore Street, January,  
JOHN J. O'CONNOR, Clinton Avenue, January,  
EDWIN D. WELLS, Walnut Street, January,  
MRS. CHARLES A. CHASE, Pearl Street, January, :
JOSEPH B. WEIS, Cleveland Street, January,  
DENNIS F. LYNCH, Chestnut Street, January,  
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Brown Avenue, January,  
WILLS M. FLEMING, Maple Street, January,  
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chestnut Street, January,  
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary.
The sub-committees of this Board for are as follows:
RULES, SALARIES AND FINANCE:
MESSRS. WEBBER, WEIS, LYNCH.
SUPPLIES:
MESSRS. POTTS, O'CONNOR, BAUSH.
TEACHERS, COURSES OF STUDY AND TEXT BOOKS:
MESSRS. WELLS, FLEMING, MRS. CHASE.
The advisory committees to the several departments are
as follows:
METAL TRADES:
WILLIS D. BALLARD, Pearl Street.
FREDERICK W. KOEGEL, Brown Avenue.
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB, Fairfield Avenue.
BUILDING TRADES:
JOSEPH F. RANGER, Nonotuck Street.
ISRAEL DUCHARME, Papineau Street.
WILLIAM B. O’NEIL, Congress Avenue.
PRINTING:
MICHAEL J. DOYLE, Elm Street.
ANDREW J. HUNTER, School Street.
JOSEPH LUSSIER, Nonotuck Street.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
PAPERMAKING: )

SIDNEY E. WHITING, Oak Street.

HENRY P. CARRUTH, North Pleasant Street.

DAVID F. SULLIVAN, Maple Street.

| ELECTRICAL WORK:
GEORGE E. JOHNSON, Allyn Street.
ARTHUR J. NEWELL, Washington Avenue.
. GEORGE M. PRENTICE, JR., Essex Street.
TEXTILE WORK: .

FRED A. McLANE, North Pleasant Street.

WALTER H. ARMSTRONG, Nonotuck Street.

EUGENE R. ALDERMAN, Pearl Street.
HOME-MAKING:

MRS. JOHN J. FINN, Linden Street.

MRS. CAROLINE MOQUIN, Pine Street.

MRS. ALMA SCHIRCH, Walnut Street.

The meetings and office hours are as follows:

BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.

A regular meeting is held on the first Tuesday evening of

every month at o’clock, at Chestnut street.
SECRETARY.

In office at Chestnut street on school days, except
Fridays, from a. m. to a. m. and from p. m. to  
p. m. .

In office on Saturday mornings and Tuesday evenings by
appointment.

Office is closed on legal holidays.

 DIRECTOR.

At Vocational School on Sargeant street from a. m.
to a. m., and p. m. to p. m. on school days.

Office hour on school days from p. m. to p. m.

Office is closed on legal holidays.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
DAY SCHOOL CALENDAR.

Winter term began January .

Winter term ends February .

Spring term begins March .

Spring term ends April .

Summer term begins May .

Summer term ends June |

Fall term begins September .

Fall term ends December .

Winter terms begins January .

EVENING SCHOOL CALENDAR.

Term of began October .

Term of ends March .

Term of begins October .

Term of ends March .

VACATIONS.

February to March inclusive.

May to May inclusive.

July to September inclusive.

December to January inclusive. |

HOLIDAYS.

Every Saturday, New Year’s Day, Washington’s Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of
July, Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day
with the day following, Christmas Day, and Teachers’ Convention Days.

LEGAL HOLIDAYS.

Washington’s Birthday, Patriots’ Day, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Labor’s Holiday, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.

PART II.
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF
TRUSTEES :
To His Honor, the Mayor, and to the Citizens of Holyoke:

The Board of Trustees for Vocational Education in this
city respectfully submits the following, their second annual
report.

The industrial supremacy of the United States depends
largely upon the maintenance of the skilled trades at their |
present high level. With changing industrial conditions and
the existing tremendous pressure for production, little oppor- |
tunity exists in the modern manufacturing establishment for
the old style, thorough traiming of apprentices. The services
of those who can be made into machine operators in month
or two are in constant demand. The employment of labor of
this class is tending to prevent young men of higher attainments and better education from undertaking to learn trade,
although, as matter of fact, never in the history of the country has there been such great demand for actual experts as
at present. If our Vocational School can attract to the trade
young men of high grade of intelligence and ean so instruct
them as to make the ultimate learning of the trade in manufacturing establishment matter requiring comparatively
small expenditure of time, the schools will result in tremendous economic saving to the state and nation and to its.
industries. This is our aim, and this complete report indicates, to an extent, the measure of our success.

The necessity for vocational education in the public
schools being now almost universally recognized by educational authorities, employers, and employees, the results of

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
the pioneer work of Massachusetts state-aided schools and the
methods there employed have excited wide interest. More
than two hundred and fifty copies of the First Annual Report on Vocational Education issued by this Board have been
forwarded on request to educators and institutions of very
many states of the Union and to government representatives
of foreign lands. There is evidence that the wide circulation
given the report has stimulated the local interest and action
of employers, employees and of the professional men of the
city in the Vocational School of Holyoke.

The continued enthusiastic interest and support evidenced by the people of Holyoke in the work of this school
warrants some expression of appreciation. To the pupils of
both the day and evening classes, whose progress constitutes
the visible success of the institution; to parents sacrificing
the financial aid of their children for the ultimate good of

: the community; to the manufacturers who have co-operated
in the investigation of the special industrial needs of Holyoke,
and to organized labor who has endorsed and contributed its
efforts to the venture in every possible way, the Trustees extend their sincere thanks.

Especially gratifying has been the action of number of
groups of journeymen who, thoroughly comprehending the
purpose of the school, are petitioning with increased frequency for short unit courses in trade extension work. That
these short unit courses thus organized have direct and forcible appeal to the students is evidenced by the sustained interest indicated by practically perfect percentage of attendance.
The appreciation of the effort of the Vocational School by
these groups has been shown by the presentation to the school
of evidences of the students’ handiwork and by donations of
valuable thought and time to the elaboration of the courses
proposed.

COURSES OF STUDY.

In the Day Vocational School four year course  now
offered in Carpentry and Building, in Machine Shop Practice,
in Pattern Making and in Printing and Binding.

. \
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
The Evening School provides for instruction in Practieal Arts and Home Making as follows: Cooking, Sewing, |
Dressmaking, Millinery, Embroidery, and Home Nursing.
The Evening Continuation School provides short unit
courses in trade extension work as follows: Carpentry, Pat- !
tern Making, Cabinet Making, Machine Shop Practice, Print- |
ing, Electricity, Steam Engineering, Bricklaying, Papermaking, Decorative Plastering, Loom Fixing and Textile Design. |
Other courses in both day and evening work are under
advisement. .
ENROLMENT. |
There are at present enrolled in the Day Vocational |
School pupils as against last year. In the Evening |
Practical Arts classes the enrolment is now women as |
against for the winter of  In the Evening
Trade Extension classes men are enrolled as against  
last year. The attendance record continues to prove the popularity of the schools and the value of the short unit courses
) of instruction. |
FACULTY. |
The increased attendance and the development of the
courses of study have required the employment of three additional teachers. The addition to the faculty of Mr. Charles
Aspden, Mr. Paul S. Sheehan, Mr. Robert A. Dowling and
Dr. Walter F. Cobb (for part time), has made it possible to
organize the work on much broader basis. In the employment of new instructors it has been the aim to secure those
not only thoroughly competent in their trades, but with distinet ability to impart this trade knowledge to their pupils.
EQUIPMENT.
During the year the increased number of pupils has demanded the purchase of additional equipment for the pat- |
tern shop, for the print shop and for the machine shop. In the |
purchase of new equipment the ultimate broad, general de- |
velopment of the Vocational School has been kept carefully
in view, and only machinery of late type has been obtained.

| REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
PROPOSED NEW COURSES.

The development of course in Industrial Plant Practice to include knowledge of steam engineering, of millwright
work, of electrical machinery and of transmissions is under
advisement in the Day School, as is also the elaboration of the
evening course in the Chemistry of Papermaking. Due to the
alternating three tour system under which paper operatives
work, it is necessary that the course in Papermaking should
be so scheduled as to permit of attendance during leisure
hours. This will necessitate day as well as evening classes in
this trade extension work. It is proposed for the immediate

. future to accommodate the course in some suitable buiiding
in section of the city convenient of access by the papermakers.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

Sinee July,  the Day Vocational School and portion of the Evening School have been housed in the Holyoke
High School Gymnasium Building. The space here available
is only sufficient to accommodate properly about pupils.
The enrolment as elsewhere stated is for the Day School
and men and women for the Evening School. Of neces| sity many of the evening classes are for the present occupying fairly satisfactory quarters in the High School Building.

With the enrolment of another class in the Day Voreational School in the fall of  the available space for the
school will obviously be entirely inadequate. new Vocational School building of approved mill type construction,
of sufficient size to house all Day School classes, is an immediate necessity. Holyoke has given the State Board of Education definite assurances that plant adequate for the development of the Vocational School will be immediately forthcoming and action in the matter must not be long delayed.

In the Carpentry and Building department it is proposed to include in the curriculum actual house construction
work on typical cottage house. For this purpose lot of
ground has been purchased and the carpenter-students are

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
working on the mill work as regular portion of their exer- —
cises during the present winter. This course will give the

: boy the kind of training that is demanded by the building
trades.

We must appreciate the definite need of new building immediately. The new building should be entirely separate and
distinct from the High School, but should be sufficiently close
to the High School to permit the use of the gymnasium by
the Vocational School pupils. The building should be of mill
construction, should provide office quarters, class rooms,
technical library and reading rooms. Shop buildings of
standard slow burning mill construction should extend from
the office quarters and class rooms. The shop units should
be capable of expansion as is manufacturing establishment
without interference with the general plan and with minimum expense.

The Practical Arts classes should be extended to include |
home laundry work, short courses in the proper use of gas, |
electricity and coal for domestic purposes, and marketing for
the home. |

We recommend to the employers of Holyoke those of their !
employees whose ambition has impelled them to undertake :
course in trade extension work. The desire for greater knowl- |
edge of the business and the tenacity of purpose exhibited by |
regular attendance at the Evening Vocation] School is in it- |
self an indication of more than ordinary worth.

In compliance with the expressed understanding with the
State Board it will be necessary in the near future to put
into operation system of part time employment of Vocational School pupils in the trades. We bespeak of the manu- |
facturers their cordial support of this project and their utilization of the services of the students on part time work.

We invite the continued friendly interest of the citizens
of Holyoke in their Vocational School and their constructive
criticism that we may serve satisfactorily the greatest possible
number.

W. M. FLEMING,
MRS. CHARLES A. CHASE.
JOHN J. O’CONNOR. |

PART III.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY
AND DIRECTOR
Lo the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education:

The Secretary and the Director herewith submit their second annual report, in which several parts of the report of
  have been repeated in modified form, in order to keep
before the public some of the fundamental ideas on Voeational Education. These parts are briefly re-stated; the
progress made during the past year is described in some detail; questions of policy are discussed in the light of experience gained in the local field, and the views of employers and
employees have been given due consideration in the attempt
to determine the answers to these questions of policy.

I. THE GENERAL SITUATION.

A few brief statements relating to the problem of Vocational Education were included in last year’s report. It has
been discovered that some of these statments need to be explained:

 To develop new and effective type of apprenticcship

travning for the skilled tradcs. .

| It  clear that ‘‘effective type of apprenticeship training’’ needs explanation, because there exists today no well
organized or well defined scheme for training workers acceptable to both manufacturers and organized labor.

Such apprenticeship systems as exist in industry do not
fulfil the demand for industrial education as it is needed today. On the other hand the Vocational School does not provide in itself complete training for industry. The elements
of both must be combined to get the best type of industrial
intelligence. It is to this problem of securing co-operation

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
with industry—manufacturers and organized labor bodies—
that the school must now address itself.

An ‘‘effective apprenticeship system”’ is of great importance to both employer and employee for many reasons.
Competing manufacturers must have an adequate supply of
trained workers. It is of equal importance to the journeymen that organized labor demand reasonable limitation of
the number of apprentices. Both manufacturer and organized
labor should be equally concerned with the character of the
training required of the apprentice. It becomes therefore the
function of the school to discover the needs of the manufacturer regarding the kind and amount of training required, to
know what the ‘‘adequate supply’’ of trained workers means
and to protect the journeyman by regulating the supply of
apprentices in accordance with reasonable rules formulated
by the school, organized labor and employing interests in conjunction.

. If the school is to serve employer and employee equally |
well it is essential that the co-operation of these two interests |
be secured. The foundation, therefore, of an effective plan
for vocational training for industrial life is co-operation.

In such apprenticeship systems as exist today there are
. elements of great value. These should be retained and should
be supplemented by the related trade subjects and general
vocational subjects now being developed in Massachusetts
State-Aided Vocational Schools. The existing apprenticeship
systems alone do not teach the mathematics and science of the
trade. The school can and does teach these elements. But
the school cannot teach all of the art of the trade; it cannot
develop the skill necessary to the finished Journeyman tradesman. At this point the school seeks the co-operation of modern industry and modern industry means employer and emplovee, manufacturer and organized labor. These interests
—the school, the emplover and the employee—can solve the
problem of industrial training by working together.
 To prevent the flooding of the skilled trades with half
skilled labor.

i REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
There is danger that boys having no knowledge of the
value of thorough training as basis for future advancement
in the industry may tend to use the school as means of securing employment. Some boys feel after attending the
school for period of six to twelve months that they have
learned enough. They seem quite content to take the ‘‘first
job’’ offered them. This danger may be avoided and the
tendency controlled only by co-ordination with the employing agencies of industry and with the various organized bodies. In the long run this sort of control will eliminate that
class of semi-skilled employees in the skilled trades who find
themselves unable to progress because they lack that general
industrial intelligence which the Vocational School has given
to the young man who has taken the ‘‘long look ahead’’ and
remained in the school until the completion of this part of his
training.

 To raise the low standard of workmanship now prevailing tn certain skilled trades to higher level.

The situation implied in this statement is amplified in
No.  .

 To discover groups of tradesmen now engaged in productive employments and make them more efficient by
means of special trade crtension courses.

The over-specialization in the skilled industries tends to
make the workman an operator with some skill in his own immediate job, but with little or no knowledge of operations or
processes which precede or follow this part of the work. To
give such man the training necessary to make him an allround workman it is clear that the school must supplement
the narrow commercial training which the day employment
affords. The school attempts to do this in its evening classes.
These evening classes also meet the tmmediate trade needs of
the day worker. In order to do this effectively the school must,
when establishing any new short course, make close analysis
of the day employment of the applicant, discover the ele  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

ments necesszry to advanced skill and knowledge and put these

up in the course as supplementary part of his general industrial training. The school is making distinct effort at
this point to discover fitness for occupation and to encourage

; those who have already developed some degree of skill to remain in the trade which now engages them.

 To provide opportunities for women engaged in wageearning occupations or in home-making to wncrease thetr
efficiency and consequent earning capacity and to develop greater interest and ability in the practice of home
management.

For women engaged in wage-earning occupations the establishment of continuation and part-time classes together
with the addition of department of trade extension work
for women in the evening will care for those who are not primarily interested in the work of the home-making department. The purpose of the existing evening classes for women
is distinctly that of making those who attend them more efficient and intelligent managers of the home, especially with
those phases of home work which call for knowledge of
food, clothing, and the care of the sick.

 To give to girls between the ages of fourtcen and sixteen
years who do not wntend to enter High School, opportunity to train for an industrial occupation or to lay the
foundation for successful home-making career.

The accomplishment of this aim involves the organization
of department for girls in connection with the existing allday Vocationa: School.

 To provide boys and girls between the ages of fourteen
and stxtecen years, who are already regularly employed
during the day, an opportunity to extend their general
education or to devclop skill and intelligence in the trade
wn which they are now engaged.

The type of school here intended is that for employed
minors. large number of boys and girls leave school at

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
the age of fourteen, often with genuine desire to seek employment, frequently because they do not sucd in the
grammar or high school, or because they are forced to help
increase the family income. It is this group which is usual| ly found in comparatively unskilled occupations where a
small amount of general education and little or no knowledge
of industrial operations suffice: These individuals frequently
move from one job to another and after serving several years

at juvenile work find it almost impossible to advance to a

 position where responsibility is required.

A continuation school organized to care for this particular group of boys and girls may also render service in Vocational Guidance, thus tending to reduce the number of misfits so frequently found in industry.

 To put into operation an effective form of vocational
guidance for boys and girls who do not know how to choose
an industrial vocation, and who have no means of knowing for which calling they are best adapted.

The tmmediate aim of Industrial Vocational Guidance
should be.to discover the aptitudes of boys and girls who
have arrived at the age when decision must be made in the
choice of an occupation; to provide opportunity for the boy
or girl to test this decision; to study the industries and
classify the occupations they afford from the standpoint of
the partially trained apprentice who is to enter them; and to
follow up the vocational record made by the boy or girl at
school with careful study of the employment record. .

Any plan for successfully carrying on this work requires the co-operation of the home, the industry and the
school. The Vocational School is now undertaking study
of local industries for the purpose of discovering where the
points of entrance are and what degree of training is necessary to gain admission. Some industries offer opportunity
for progress by well defined stages to the boy or girl who has
capacity for promotion from position requiring comparatively little skill or intelligence to one which calls for responsi  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
bility in the management of men and affairs. It is clear, therefore, that any effort in the direction of vocational industrial
guidance must consider the welfare of the boy or the girl on
the one hand, and on the other the welfare of the industry.
II. EDUCATIONAL LEGISLATION RELATING TO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING.

 The All-Day Vocational School for Boys and Girls.
(Chapter  Acts of  .)

 The Part-Time School. (Chapter  Acts of  .)

 The Continuation School. (Chapter  Acts of
 .)

 Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men. (Chapter  Acts of  .) |

 Evening Practical Arts Classes for Women. (Chapter  Acts of  .)

It is possible to apply all of these methods of solution to
the problem of vocational education in Holyoke. The classes

now operated by the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education in Holyoke are as follows:

 The All-Day Vocational School for Boys. ,

 Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men employed during the day.

 Evening Practical Arts Classes for Women employed
during the day.

III. QUESTIONS OF POLICY.

The questions submitted in the First Annual Report are
here restated with comments gathered from various sources
during the year.

 Can Holyoke afford to put wm operation other methods provided by state law to help solve the problems of vocational education?

 Can Holyoke afford not to adopt all methods providcd by state law to help solve the problems of vocational
educatiwn?

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  

 If Holyoke  to make wmmediate extension to the

. work already begun, what direction should this extension
take?

 Should Holyoke operate continuation school for
boys and girls between the ages of fourteen and sixteen
years?

 Should the all-day school increase the number of
apprentices in the trades now taught?

 Should the all-day school admit apprentwes to trainang in the trades now taught?

 Should the all-day school admit apprentices to tramtng in the trades now offered without regard to the absorbing capacity of the industries for which the training is given?

 Should the all-day school increase the number of
trade departments, that candidates for admission may have a
wider range from which to make chowe of trades?

IV. ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS OF POLICY.

The answers to these questions at this date should not
be construed as conclusive. There are many points entering
into each of these questions which involve careful and detailed study not only of the characteristics of the boy involved
in the training, but also of the characteristics of the industry for which it is proposed to train. It would seem fair to
answer Questions  and in the affirmative; to say ‘‘No’’
to Question  to declare unnecessary the adoption of ‘‘all
methods’’ in Question  to give further consideration to
Questions  and  .

V. BEGINNINGS— .

 day school for boys was opened in September,
 with two trade departments—Carpentry and Machine
Shop.

 The school consisted at that time of five pupils and
two trade instructors.

 In October of the same year the number of pupils

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
had increased to eighteen and one additional teacher (parttime) was engaged to teach related class-room work. |

 In January,  thirty-seven pupils were enrolled
and two additional teachers were engaged (part-time) to help
with related Drawing and English.  

 During this first school year,  about 
worth of equipment was installed.

VI. PROGRESS— .

 In July and August the school moved its equipment
to the new building on the south side of Sargeant street.
These new quarters provided opportunity for two additional
trade departments, Patternmaking and Printing.

 In September,  one hundred and ten boys apphed for admission to the school. Eighty-seven of these appheants were finally admitted.

 Three new shop instructors were added to the staff
during the school year. The newly established pattern department was equipped to make modest beginning. The
printing department was provided with enough equipment
to care for the candidates who applied for instruction in this
trade.

 Additional new equipment was added to the Carpentry and Machine departments during the year.

 The instructors devoted great deal of their time
during the vear to study of their respective departments,
each working on problems connected with the course of study
and equipment.

 Any suss which the school attamed was due to

. the efforts of the several instructors, the ambition of the
boys to excel, and the willingness of the Board of Trustees
to provide opportunity for development.

, VIT. PROGRESS— .

 In September,  one hundred and thirty-one
boys applied for admission. Out of this number one hundred
and ten have been admitted to the several trade departments.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  

 About twenty-five boys have applied for admission
since September. Some of these will be admitted as regular
students at the end of their probationary period.

 On account of the increased number of pupils additional equipment has been provided for all departments during the vear.

 Three new instructors have been added to the staff
since July  One devotes his entire time to related and
academic work; one gives his entire time to shop-work, and
the third divides his time between shop and class-room work:

). Each departinent  devoting itself to new problems
Within the range of the trade for which it gives instruction.

a. The Carpentry department has developed plans by
which instruction is to be provided on eottage house to be
built in Highland Park. The bovs in this department have
drawn the plans for five-thousand dollar home. Eleven
bovs entered this competition. The construction work on the
prize-winning plans will begin about the first of April. This
development as part of the course in Carpentry has the endorsement of the building trades, and this method of training
apprentice carpenters  looked forward to by those interested in the school, as solution of the difficulty involved in
attempting to train house carpenter without giving him the
actual experience on the job.

b.) The Machine department is building part of its
engine lathe equipment this vear from plans presented to
the school by the Reed-Prentice Company of Worcester.
This department has completely overhauled, rebuilt and installed group of six wood-working lathes for the Manual
Training department of the High School, and additionally |
has handled large number of maintenance jobs for the several departments of the school.

ce. The Pattern department has developed its work suecessfully sinee its organization, having contributed large
amount of material to the machine shop. While this department. was not organized as planning department for the
school, good deal of repair and maintenance work has been

} REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
dione here, and this department has also originated much of
the new work on equipment. The work should be extended
to include industrial drafting and millwright work requiring the services of an assistant shop instructor.
d. The Printing department has made successful beginning during the year. This department competed sussfully in bid for the printing of various record cards
for the State-Aided Vocational Schools in Massachusetts. It
is now printing section of the Third Annual Convention Prodings. The first edition of this work calls for
two thousand, five hundred copies. job of this kind offers the apprentice good line of straight composition work.
This department more than any other can hopefully look forward to the time when it will be able to print and publish a
school paper, thus serving not only the school, but the local
trades as well.
VIUI. NEEDS OF THE SCHOOL.
Housing. The immediate demands of industry for skilled
and semi-skilled workers, the weekly calls at the school for
boys who have had experience in the shop under experienced
trade instruetors, the steady demand for admission to the
school, by boys who have been employed in juvenile occupations which seem to offer little future, by boys from the upper grammar grades, as well as boys from the high school—
all these demands make it imperative that immediate consideration be given to the problem of providing larger and
independent quarters for the Vocational School.
Equipment and Course. Such equipment as the school
now has should be supplemented from time to time with additional machines and devices to provide for the teaching of
special processes and operations. The constant and rapid
development and improvement of all kinds of manufacturing machinery demand that the school so organize its work
that short courses may be given not only in the evening
classes for men but in the day courses for boys as well. Now |
that plan for training apprentice house carpenters is well |
|
:

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
developed, and success in this seems assured, the wood-working department has another function to develop—the training of shop hands and mill men. The expense involved in
the training of shop hands will be greater than in any other
wood-working branches on account of the cost of equipment.

The department of Machine Shop Practice has special
field to develop in training automobile repair men. A
thoroughly trained auto repair man needs good training
in the fundamental operations which the machine shop is prepared to give. Asa branch of the machine shop, there should
be established small garage equipped with few machine
tools. Automobiles would soon become available for purposes of instruction. With very small expense provision
may readily be made for the instruction of ten or twelve boys.

One of the most pressing needs of the school is general
drafting room. At present such drawing as the several departments attempt is carried on under very great difficulty.

The work of the Pattern department has been carried on
successfully with very limited equipment. There is need
in this department of the school for further development.
This work may well be extended to include the fitting of apprentices for millwright work as part of factory maintenance.

New Departments. In the field of industrial production which the school is organized to serve, there exists a
group of men whose duties have to do with the production
and distribution of power and general maintenance work.
In industrial establishments where such departments exist,
responsibility for carrying on the work rests with the master
mechanic or the chief engineer. Employees in the local field
may be engaged in any of the following occupations: Engineers, firemen, repair machinists, pipers and steamfitters,
carpenters, millwrights, repair patternmakers, dynamo tenders, trouble men, janitors in public and office buildings. Receognizing this as legitimate field for which boys may be
trained, the school should organize and maintain in conjunc.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

tion with the loeal mdustries department offering course
of study and work leading to the several openings suggested.
Recently local investigation was made. It showed the opportunities open to young men taking such course of study
for such department.

IX. DAY SCHOOL DEPARTMENTS AND ORGANIZATION.

The work of the day school is carried on by departments,
of which there are four. Each department constitutes small
school in itself so far as shop instruction is concerned.

In general the work of each department consists of:
( Shop Practice in the operations and processes of the
trade; Trade Technical work in English, Mathematies,
Drawing, Materials, Science, Hygiene, Shop Management
and Citizenship.

The department of General Subjects is organized to offer English, Industrial Ilistory, Mathematics, Seience, Physical Training, Alusic, and so on.

Each department is so organized that boy in securing
his training passes through three periods of school work.
An applicant, if admitted to the school, is assigned to trade
department. The choice of trade is made only after eonsultation with the parents or guardian, department head,
and the Director. Several interviews are frequently required in order to determine this very important step. Ilaving chosen the trade he proposes to follow, the apprentice
enters upon the ‘‘first period’? of his work. This first period
Involves large amount of shop work, but the length of the
period varies, depending upon the ability of the individual.

. During this time very little class work is attempted, most of
the related work being given on the shop floor to individuals
or very small groups as the need arises. During the ‘‘seeond period’’ the amount of class work is increased to fifty
or sixty per cent and the shop instruction is given on the
basis of the individual apprentice or in small groups. When
the apprentice enters upon his ‘‘third period’’ the method of

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
instruction changes. The work done in the class room is organized without particular reference to the work of the shop.
The shop work during the latter part of this period is based
upon the factory method of production. As far as possible
the work is not only productive, but commercial in its character. This independent organization during the last period
of school training, i. e., the independent handling of organized subjects in the class room on the one hand, and the ability to produce work under commercial shop conditions on
the other, has the effect of bringing the boy up to standard,
desirable not only from the standpoint of the journeyman
alongside whom the boy is soon to work, but also from the
point of view of the employer. The particular aim of the
class room instruction in technical work during the third
period, is to organize the shop knowledge gained by experience during the first and second periods of work.

X. DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OF THE HOLYOKE
PLAN OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING.

The scheme of training has three features which distinguish it from plans operated by other communities. These
features have been included in the general scheme of training,
because experience has shown that no single plan of organization has yet been successful in solving all the problems of
industrial training. It is hoped that experience in operating these new plans, may solve some of the difficulties experienced by other communities, and additionally throw new
light for future methods of organization.

 four-year, all-day, non-co-operative course.

 As part of this course, the apprentice is required
to seek ‘‘full-time emplovment’’ during the last five months
of his fourth year, and to furnish satisfactory record of this
full-time employment period, before he can be recommended
for dtploma.

 The part-time course offered at the beginning of the
third year is included in the general plan, because experience
has shown that large number of boys, tempted by the possi  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
bility of earning fair wage at the age of sixteen, drop out
of school only partly prepared to sucd in industry.

These three features, with whatever modifications may
later be developed through experience, provide: First, a
thorough training for the apprentice in the school; secondly,
entrance to the industry for which he has trained; thirdly,
a chance to continue the school side of his education if for
economic or other reason he is unable to spend all his time
in school after sixteen years of age.

XI. PROGRESS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF PARTTIME PLAN.

  The problems involved in the establishment of parttime plan have been discussed with representative of the
State Board.

 method of procedure in regard to study of the
needs and possibilities of part-time has been developed and
presented to representative of the local Board of Trustees.

 The formulation of specific plan by the Director is
now  process.

 The plan, when formulated, will be presented to the
Board of Trustees for approval.

). If approved, the plan will be presented to the several advisory boards for discussion relative to local trade
conditions.

 Approval by the State Office and agreement of Of- .
fice with local school authorities.

 Conferences with labor men and employers.

 study of local industries will follow to discover
what the exact situation is, what local establishments will do,
and how far they will co-operate.

 Provision for the setting up of an alternative plan,
if it is diseovered that the part-time plan is not feasible.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
XII. COURSES OF STUDY FOR DAY SCHOOL.
The following are the departments and courses of study
In the day work of the Holyoke Vocational School :
DEPARTMENT OF CARPENTRY AND BUILDING.
First Year.
Shop Practice Trade English
Trade Mathematics Trade Drawing
(About on shop floor.)
Applied English Hygiene .
Applied Mathematics Physical Training
(About class-room and gymnasium.)
| Second Year.
Shop Practice Trade English
Trade Mathematics Trade Drawing
Trade Science Shop Management
Trade Hygiene
(From to shop.)
English Mathematics
Civics Industrial History
Hygiene Physical Training
(From to class-room.)
Third Year.
Shop Practice Shop Drawing
Shop Mathematics Shop Management
(From to shop.) ,
English Literature Mathematics
Citizenship Industrial History
Hygiene Physical Training
| (From to class-room. )
Fourth Year (first half).
Shop Practice Shop Mathematics
(  shop.)
English Drawing
Mathematics Hygiene
Mechanics Physical Training
;  class.)

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Fourth Year (second half).
| The apprentice enters the trade.
. record of his work is kept.
This record becomes part of
the complete trade record of the
boy.
DEPARTMENT OF MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE.
First Year.
Shop Practice Trade Mathematics
Trade English Trade Drawing
Shop Management Trade Hygiene
(  shop work.)
Applied Mathematics Hygiene
Applied English Physical Training
(  class-room. )
Second Year. |
Shop Practice Trade English
Trade Mathematics Trade Hvgiene
Trade Science Shop Management
(  to shop.)
Applied English Industrial History
Applied Mathematics Citizenship
Hygiene Physical Training
General Mechanical Drawing
(  to class.)
Third Year.
Shop Practice Trade English
Trade Mathematics Trade Science
Shop Management Trade Hygiene
(  to shop.)
English Literature Mathematics
Citizenship Industrial History
Hygiene Physical Training
General Mechanical Drawing
(  to class.)
Fourth Year (first half).
Shop Practice Related Trade Subjects
(  shop work.)

, REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
English Mathematics
Science Drawing
Hygiene Physical Training

(  class work.)
Fourth Year (second half).
The apprentice enters the trade.
A record of his work is kept.
This record becomes part of
the complete trade record of the
boy.
DEPARTMENT OF PATTERN MAKING.
First Year.

Shop Practice Trade English
Moulding Trade Drawing
Core Making Shop Management

Trade Mathematics

:  shop work.)
Applied English Hygiene
Applied Mathematics Physical Training
(  class work.)
Second Year.

Shop Practice Trade English 

‘Trade Mathematics Trade Hygiene

Shop Management Materials

(  to shop.)

Applied English Industrial History

Applied Mathematics Citizenship

Hygiene Physical Training

General Mechanical Drawing
(  to class work.) ,
Third Year.

‘Shop Practice Trade English

Trade Mathematics Trade Science

Shop Management Trade Hygiene

(  to shop work.)

English Mathematics

Citizenship Industrial History

Hygiene Physical Training

General Mechanical Drawing
,  to class-room.)

:
  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Fourth Year (first half). |
Shop Practice Related Trade Subjects
(  shop.) |
English Mathematics
Science Drawing :
Hygiene Physical Training }
(  class-room. |
Fourth Year (second half). :
The apprentice enters the trade.
A record of his work is kept. |
This record becomes part of
the complete trade record of the
boy.
DEPARTMENT OF PRINTING.
|
First Year. |
 Shop Work Trade English |
  Composition Trade Drawing |
  Press Work Trade Hygiene |
Trade Mathematics
(  shop.)
Applied English Civics
Applied Mathematics Hygiene and Physical
Training
(  class-room. )
Second Year. |
Shop Practice Trade English
Trade Mathematics Trade Hygiene
Materials of Trade Trade Design
(  to shop.)
Applied English Applied Mathematics
Citizenship Industrial History |
Hygiene Physical Training
(  to class work.) |
Third Year.
Shop Practice Trade English
Trade Mathematics Trade Science
Materials of Trade Trade Hygiene
(  to shop.)
t
,

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
English (Literature) Mathematics )
Citizenship Industrial History
Hygiene Physical Training
English Composition
(  to class-room.)
Fourth Year (first half).
Shop Practice Related Trade Subjects
(  shop.)
English Mathematics
Printing Design Hygiene
Physical Training
(  class-room.)
. Fourth Year (second half).
The apprentice enters the trade.
A record of his work is kept.
This record becomes part of
the complete trade record of the
boy.

The subject matter of these courses of study is gradually
being worked out by the several department heads with the
aid of their assistant teachers. The reports of department
heads in another part of this report indicate to some extent

. the kind of material, the amount of subject matter, and in
some eases the methods of instruction used in the school.
XIII. RESULTS OF EXPERIENCE OF THREE YEARS

IN THE DAY VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.

Our experience in operating the Vocational School for
three years indicates:

 That most boys applying for admission to the school
have very definite notion of the kind of work for which they
seek training.

 That some boys apply for admission because they do
not sucd in the grammar or high school.

 That some boys who have been employed in juvenile
work for time come to the school for training because they
realize the limitation of promotion outside the skilled trades.

 That some boys leave school because they wish to en  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
joy the seeming advantages which weekly wage brings to
them.

 Very few boys have had to leave the school solely
because the family needed the added income which the boy
could produce.

 That all boys should have try-out period in the
trade selected before being permanently entered in department.

 That there is demand for short courses for boys
who expect to enter the semi-skilled trades.

 That the regular four year course will not hold all
boys who enter the school.

 That it would be advisable to make thorough survey of the industries of the city with view to determining
which trades other than these now offered may profitably be
taught; what length of time would be required for the training; and what should be the subject matter of the course if
taught.

XIV. EVENING TRADE EXTENSION COURSES
FOR MEN.

These courses are among the chief activities of the school.
They are especially important to the industrial life of the city,
because they contribute more immediately and directly to industry than any other courses offered. The following classes
have been established on the short unit basis: —

Carpentry, Pattern Making, Estimating for Bricklayers,
Machine Shop Practice, Printing, Papermaking, Electricity,
Steam Engineering, Drawing for Carpenters, Blue Print
Reading for Machinists, Decorative Plastering, Cloth Construction and Weave Formation, Loomfixing for men in the
textile trade, and Fine Cabinet Making. The last three are
new courses offered for the first time this year.

These evening trade extension courses are meeting in an
exceptional way the needs of men in the various trades. It
has not always been clear to applicants for admission that
these courses are offered to ‘‘Those secking improvement ium

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
skull and intelligence along the line of the trade in which they
ure now employcd.’’? There has been little opportunity in
the past for man to begin trade in the evening school. It
is probable that no opportunity will be given in the future
for beginners.

At this point clear distinction should be drawn between
this work and the work of the day school. The aim of the
day school is to offer the equivalent of an apprenticeship
training in the several trades. Boys and young men from
fourteen to twenty-five vears of age may seek admission to
the school. The evening school on the other hand admits
only men seventeen years of age and over who are employed
during the day. It is therefore highly desirable that boy or
voung man seeking entrance to trade by the Vocational
School route should make very careful study of the opportunities for promotion in the various industries, and make
his selection in accordance with his probable ability to sued after securing the necessary. training. Once selected, the
evening trade courses provide unlimited conditions for future development.

There are few men in the trades today so well trained
that they can afford to allow year to pass without taking
one or more of the short courses offered by the evening school.

The following groups of unit courses are published from
many offered, to show in some degree the seope of the work
in the Evening School; to exhibit in some detail the subject
matter offered in these courses, and additionally to show the
need of varying the courses from year to year to meet the
changing conditions in the trade:

GROUP OF UNIT COURSES FOR CARPENTERS,
Course I. House Framing.

a. Based or Balloon Frame Construction.

b. Framing Joists around Chimney Stair and other Openings.

,

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Course II. Roof Construction.
a. Figuring length of
 Hips.
 Valleys.
 Common.
 Jacks.
b. Steel Square or Graphic Method.
c. Roofs over Bays.
Course III. Stair Building.
a. How to Lay Out Story Rod. |
b. Pitch Board.
c. Proportioning Treads anid Risers.
d. Rough Stair Stringers.
e. Platform Stairs.
f. Winding Stairs.
g. Open and Closed Stairs.
h. Newelled Stairs.
i. Hand-railing.
j. Spandrel.
Course IV. Inside Finish. |
a. Door and Window Construction.
b. Wainscotting.
c. Hanging Doors,
d. Construction of Mantels.
e. Construction of China Closets.
|
GROUP OF UNIT COURSES IN DRAWING FOR CARPENTERS.
Course I. Blue Print Reading.
a. Detail Sketching.
b. Billing of Material.
Course II. Making Full-Size Detail Layout for Mill Work.
Note.—This work will be confined to Inside Finish.
The following points will be covered:
a. Beamed Ceilings.
b. Mantels.
c. China Closets.
d. Stair Work.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  

Course III. Drawing and Tracing for Carpenters.

Nott.—This course is intended to teach carpenters how to make
drawings for their own use in the trade. It will cover the following
points:

a. Small Structures.

 Garages.
.  Storehouses, etc. )

b. Alterations.

 Additions.
 Store and Office Work.

Note.—These courses will be run as parallel courses. The registration will be limited to twelve men. Only those employed in the
trade will be registered.

SHORT UNIT COURSES IN FINE CABINET MAKING.

 Drafting. How to make working drawings. Use of scale
drawings. Geometry applied to woodwork.

 Laying Out Rods. Their object. Preparation of cutting lists.

 Mouldings and their application.

 Mitering and Halving of Angles. Mitering of curved and
straight moulding. Principles to be observed around unusual
angles.

 Veneering. Preparation of grounds. Veneering with cauls;
hammer method. Treatment of Vencers. Veneering shaped
surfaces. To apply tortoise shell treatment of celluloid and
metal inlay. Making of fancy banding lines in circular work.

 General Construction of Fine Cabinet work, including: Sideboards, Dining Tables, Gate-Leg Table, Center Tables, Sectional Bookcases, Bureaus, Rolltop Desks, Writing Tables,
China Cabinets, Corner Cabinets, Card Tables, Bedsteads.

 Showcases. Air-tight construction.

 Orders of Architecture. Dimensions of the Classic Orders of
Architecture applied to Cabinet Work.

 Paneling. Construction and Fixing of Paneling.

 Styles. Characteristics of English and French Styles. Suitable
details for each period.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
UNIT COURSES IN MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE.
Course I. Making Fits. c. Cutters.
a. Straight Bore Fit. d. Use of Dividing Head.
b. Straight Turn Fit. Course VI. Universal Grindc. Tight and Running Fit. ing.
d. Shrink and Force Fit. .
Course II. Screw Cutting. a. Handling of Machine. .
b. Internal Grinding.
a. V-Thread. c. External Grinding.
b. Square Thread. d. Surface Grinding.
c. Acme Thread.
d. Grinding Tools. Course VII. Shop Arithmetic
e. Sctting Tools. for Machinists.
f. Change Gears and Manipula- a. Pulley Speed and Sizes,
tion of Machine.
b. Gear Speeds.
Course III. Lathe Work. c. Simple Gear Trains.
a. Lathe Work on Tool Making. d. Compound Gearing.
b. Making of Taps, Reamersand e. Cutting Speeds of Lathe.
Cutters. {. Cutting Speeds of Planer.
c. Use of the Taper, Backing g. Change Gears for Screw
Off and Relieving Attach- Thread Cutting.
ment. h. Taper Turning.
Course IV. Milling Machine. *—  dexine.
a. Spiral Work on Cutters. Course VIII. Blue Print Readb. Bevel Gearing. ing for Machinists.
Course V. General Milling a. Shop Sketching.
Machine Work. b. Analysis of Assembly Drawa. Taps. ing.
b. Reamers. c. Conventional Shop Methods.
UNIT COURSES FOR PAPERMAKERS.
Unit I. Chemistry of Paper- Unit TT. Treatment of Rags
making. and Wood Pulp.
 Lime and Soda Ash. A. Rags.
 Bleaching Powder and Alum  Threshing and Dusting.
or Acid.  Kinds of Rags Used for
 Rosin Size and Alum. Different Kinds of
 Rosin and Soda Ash. per
 Rosin S; ae Lime.
osin Size solution in Water.  Lime and Soda Ash
 Rosin Size Milk for Beaters.
; (Reasons and Effects
 Alum in Filters. in Bleach Boiler).

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  Caustic Soda. Unit IV. Machines. ,
 Rags.  Construction and Principles.
a. Washing.  Screening.
b. Bleaching.  Sand-Traps.
c. Draining.  Wires (a) Shake, (b) Pitch.
B. Wood Pulp.  Savealls—Different Construc; tions.
 Sulphite Process.  Press Rolls. .
 Soda Process.  Drying.
 Comparison of Results  Sizing—Glue Starch.
| of and ).  Loft Drying.
 Bleaching of Wood Machine Drying, or Air DryPulp. Ing.
a. In Pulp Mills.  Condition of Paper at Varib. In Paper Mills. ous Points on Machine.
 Other Materials Usedin wie y. Finishing.
Papermaking.  Needs of Different Grades.
a. Old Papers.  Effects on Finish of (a)
b. Straw. Moisture, (b) Various
c. Jute. Sizes, (c) Various Fillers,
d. Grasses.  Trimming. |
Unit HI. Beating. Unit VI. Paper Testing.
 Types of Beaters.  Strength.
 Construction and Operation. Mullen.
 Mixing, Cutting, Hydration.  Tensile Strength,
..  Folding Endurance.
 Iillers—Properties. .
.. ®. Macroscopical Tests for Fia. Kinds and Uses. :
| bres, Spots, ete.
 Engine Sizing (a) Rosin, (b) Tests for (a) Ash, (b)
Starch. Starch, (c) Free Chlorine,
 Coloring (a) General, (b) (d) Tron.
Mordants, (c) Dyes, (d)  Testing Raw Materials.
Pigments. (a) Alum, (b) Bleaching
 Refining Engine (a) Con- Powder, (c) Fillers,
struction. (b) Uses. (d) Wood Pulp.
UNIT COURSE ON MOTORS AND GENERATORS IN THE
ELECTRICAL TRADE.
Jan. sth. Lesson I.
Organization of Class. General Explanation of Topics in the.
Course.

 REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Jan.  th. Lesson IT.
Magnetism. Permanent and Electro-Magnets.
Jan.  th. Lesson HI.
Principles of Solenoid.
Rules of Thumb.
Jan.  th. Lesson IV.
Electrical Units. .
 Volt, Ampere, Watt, Ohm.
 Ohm's Law.
Jan.  th. Lesson V.
Direct Current Motors.
Jan.  th. Lesson VI.
Alternating Current Motors.
 Single Phase.
 Polyphase.
Jan.  th. Lesson VII.
Alternating Current Motors (continued ).
Jan.  st. Lesson VIII.
Motor Troubles. .
 Direct Current.
(a) Location.
(b) Remedies.
Feb.  d. Lesson IX.
Motor Troubles.
 Alternating Current.
(a) Location.
(b) Remedies.
Feb. Tth. Lesson X.
Motor Application.
Feb.  th. Lesson XI.
Motor Application (continued ).
Feb.  th. Lesscn ATL.
Motor Wiring. |

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
XV. EVENING PRACTICAL ARTS.
DEPARTMENT FOR WOMEN.

The classes in this department are organized with view
to accomplishing definite work relating to the art and science
of home making. The work is offered in short courses to
women seventeen vears of age and over. Each class meets |
two nights week from seven-thirty to nine-thirty o'clock. As
far as possible, candidates are grouped in classes of fifteen, ae
eording to previous experience. Work is now offered to any
woman seeking instruction in Elementary Sewing, Intermediate Sewing, Advanced Dressmaking, Elementary and Advaneed Cooking, Elementary and Advaneed Millinery, Elementary and Advanced Embroidery, and Home Nursing.

The following extracts from the report of the Supervisor,
Mrs. M. A. Carlon, will serve to show the organization, the
progress and development of new classes and the method of

keeping reeords.

“In October,  the Practical Arts department consisted of four
classes in Cooking and nine classes in Sewing. We classified all pupils,
placing them in elementary, intermediate or advanced classes, according
to their experience or fitness. When the school closed in March,  ,
we had succecded in bringing about changes in the direction indicated
by the State. We added three new departments—Millinery, embroidery and Home Nursing. The work done by these new classes has justifed their establishment. We introduced card system in January,
 which marked the beginning of the present system, and which is
a complete history of pupil's work, from the time she enters until
she leaves the school, whether she registers for only one unit or progresses from one class or department to another.

“A short unit course of four lessons in box lunches was given recently with splendid results. The boxes were sold at fifteen cents each,
and it seemed almost incredible that so much could be given for such
a small amount of money.

“Our Home Nursing class is filling long-felt want in the community, in teaching its pupils to be more efficient in caring for the
sick in their own homes. We are training women who are anxious to
know the correct manner of giving baths, taking temperatures, the  mportance of certain symptoms in different diseases, airing and ventilating sick room, the use of hot water bottles, ice caps, how to

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

bandage, how to tie tourniquet, how to support an injured or broken

bone until expert medical attendance can be secured, the danger of infection. the precautions to be used in guarding against contagion, the
value of personal hygiene, and so on. The pupils bring their problems

to the teacher, who is graduate nurse. These problems are taken up

in detail for the benefit of the entire class.

“During the year the State approved all classes in this
department. Miss Nellie Wilkins, in charge of this work for the State,
has visited the school at various times, and has been of great assistance, giving advice freely as to the conduct of the courses. We are
indebted to her for many helps. which have tended to promote effciency, and have found her most appreciative of the good work done
here.

“The paragraphs which follow are extracts from reports of class
teachers. They serve to show the interest of pupils in the several departments, and indicate the extent of co-operation between teacher and
pupil:

“All work done is far ahead of last year. Especially is this noticeable in the work done by the pupils from last year’s classes. They
have more confidence in themselves, and also are more particular about
details, While the lesson does not begin until  it is not unusual to
have the entire class present and working at  while some few are
always busy as early as  As time goes on the unit system is
proving its value, and it is certain that greater progress can be made
through its intelligent interpretation and use than by any other method.’
(Dressmaking. )

“Besides teaching the regular evening meals according to schedule, we give opportunity for the making of Parker House rolls, pie.
and cake, as so many pupils tell us they are unable to do these things
well at home. The food cooked in this way is sold to pupils or teachers, so it no extra expense to the department to do this work. The
unit system is used in all classes, and pupil may register for one or
more units. lunch box unit was tried in December, and was test
on the part of teacher and pupil to provide well-supplied lunch box
which would sell for fifteen cents.” (Cooking. )

“In January,  the demand for instruction in Millinery was
such that second class was opened. The unit system was adopted.
Each night’s lesson was clearly defined, and little trouble was experienced in living up to the schedule. Much interest was shown
by pupils. Pupils are enthusiastic and anxious to do good work. They

, are encouraged to observe good hats and discuss them in class, The

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
fact that this class is training for efficiency in home-making is kept
coastantly before the pupil.’ (Millinery.)

““The work done this year far surpasses last year’s efforts, as will
be shown by the finished pieces of work. The first unit consisted in
teaching correct way of embroidering lingerie waists, collars and
cuffs. The girls were thus enabled to provide themselves with beautiful wearing apparel at nominal cost. Other work done in these
classes consists of fancy darning, hemstitching, initialing table and bed
linen. Interest has been maintained throughout. Many pupils ask permission to come on other nights than those for which they register.’
(Embroidery. )

“*The class in Home Nursing began work October with
seventeen pupils. There was also large waiting list.

““The first unit of eight lessons was devoted to emergencies, with
demonstrations and practice work in preparation and use of bandages
for wounds and fractures, the treatment of scalds and burns, the symptoms and treatment of shock, the use of medicines found in wellsupplied “First Aid Cabinet.” The latter is the property of the school,
and the medicines were donated by Mr. Arthur Elhott.

“‘The second unit, began November comprised five lessons
in sick-room nursing.

“The third unit, opened January consisted of nine lessons.
The first four were on the taking. of temperature, pulse and respiration. The other four lessons were devoted to studying proper diet and
feeding: of sick, and complete demonstration of the making of a
temperature chart with an imaginary patient’s temperature, for six days,
taken six times in each twenty-four hours and duly recorded. The
next and last unit starts February and will be devoted to infectious and contagious diseases, the difference between the two, and
the different diseases belonging to each branch, and study of isolation and disinfection.

“The efficiency of the courses might be augmented, by the purchase of charts, showing the anatomy of the body, and by course of
lectures given by the doctors associated with the school department.
Tests given by them, too, might be used as gauge to test pupils’ efhciency, and to find out if they are getting from the course all that we
hope for.’ (Home Nursing.)”

The following short unit courses from the Praetieal Arts
department are typical and illustrate the subject matter presented in the several classes.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
. DRESSMAKING.
Unit I—OneE-Pircre Dress.
Five Weeks—Ten Lessons.

Lesson  Measurements and Altering of Pattern.

Lesson  Testing Pattern and Cutting.

Lesson  Placing of Seams and Basting Same.

Lesson  Finishing Seams, Binding, ete.

Lesson  Fitting (in groups).

Lesson  Stitching of Seams and Removing Bastings.

Lesson  Joining Skirt and Waist.

Lesson  Hanging Skirt and Basting Hem.

Lesson  Making of Sleeves and Setting In.

Lesson  Placing and Basting Belt in Position.
Lesson  Put on Collar and General Finishing.
COOKING.

Unit TE—BRreEAKPASTS.

Five Weeks—Ten Lessons.

Snnple family meals at cost of six dollars and fifty
eents week for family of five: This includes fruit, cereals,
eggs in different forms, corn meal muffins, doughnuts, griddle
cakes, waffles, baking powder biscuit, setting of table and
serving. .

MILLINERY.
Unit TT—Making New WINTER Harts.
Five Weeks—Ten Lessons.

Lesson  Making of Buckram Frame from Paper Pattern and Remodeling Ready Made Frames,

Lesson  Taking Measurements and Estimating Quantity of Material to be Used.

Lesson  Demonstration and Covermg of Upper Brim.

Lesson  Covering of Under Brin.

Lesson  Crown Making.

Lesson  Fold and Rosette Making.

Lesson  Trimming and Lining.

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
EMBROIDERY.
Unit [I—Witite Work.
Initials and Fancy Darning as Applied to Clothing, Eed
Linen, Table Linen, Towels.
Five Weeks—Ten Lessons.
Lesson  Outline Stitch.
Lesson  Padding.
Lesson  Straight Satin Stitch.
Lesson  Slanting Satin Stitch.
Lesson  Eyelet Embroidery.
Lesson  Buttonhole or Seallop.
Lesson  Practice Work.
XVI. THE SIIORT UNIT PLAN OF INSTRUCTION.
The demand for new method of organization and instruction has come about largely because the general evening industrial school has failed to hald its attendance. This
failure indicated that the pupils were not interested and
were probably not getting the instruction they expected when
they entered the school. The chief reasons for failure may
be stated as follows:

 There was no attempt to study the needs of those engaged
in industry during the day. It was assumed that they
would accept the same kind of treatment as other students.

 There was no attempt to study the attendance records of

‘these evening students. These show upon examination
that comparatively few of the students who register in a
general course remain until its completion.

 In the organization of classes no attempt was made to

, group students according to experience and ability.

 The method of presenting the subject-matter was in general that used by the secondary day schools.

By watching the progress locally of men in the trades it
became evident that worker is advanced by his foreman or

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
employer on the basis of his practical knowledge of trade
operations and the processes rather than upon basis of theory or general training. There are many local mill superintendents who never deviate from the principle that the true
basis of promotion is merit found within the ranks. This
fact is worthy of consideration and should be noted by those
seeking promotion in their respective industries.
Having the evidence that the older type of organization
and instruction was not adapted to deal effectively with the
pupil who wished to attend these classes it became necessary
to establish new method of procedure. This new method is
the ‘‘Short Unit Course.’’ From the experience gained in
administering the Vocational School by this plan there is a
growing confidence that, as the principles involved in its operation are adhered to, success follows in the same degree.
The important points involved in successful operation of this
plan may be stated as follows:
 study of the trade from the standpoint of: (a)
How it functions in the community. (b) The number of men
employed. (ce) The cost of maintaining instruction. (d)
The probable cost of equipment and supplies. (e) Material
for subject matter. (f) Length of unit.
 Instruction. (a) The teacher must be practical
man with experience in the trade. (b) He should have some
ability to organize his material for instruction. (c) He should
have gained his experience,  possible, by instructing apprentices in the industry. (d) He should have additional
training as teacher equivalent to that offered in ‘‘ Teacher
Training Classes’’ organized by the Commonwealth. (e) The |
instruetor should be paid reasonably well. (f) No instruetor
should be engaged for more than two evenings week. (g)
Instructors should seek the help of responsible men connected
with the trade. (h) Department heads should be encouraged
to give brief talks on the courses offered in their departments.
Illustrated talks should be given on the needs of the various |
industries. |
 Registration. Candidates for admission to the school

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
are required to submit the following information: Name,
address, age, year, month and day of birth, home address, occupation, course wanted, reason, name of employer, experience aS apprentice, journeyman worker, foreman, superintendent. follow-up card shouldbe developed in this connection to show later employment, progress, increased income.

 Conditions of admission. (a) Experience in industry. (b) Needs of individual in trade which employs him
during the day. (c) Evidence that his day employment is
related to trade in which he seeks instruction. (d) Age must
be at least seventeen.

. Attendance, time, home work. seventy-five per |
‘cent attendance should be required. No pupil should be encouraged to attend more than two nights per week and
should not be allowed to attend more than three nights.
School credit may be given for satisfactory work done at
home or elsewhere outside the school. No home work has
been required in operating these classes.

XVII. CONCLUSION.

In closing this part of the report we wish to thank employees of local establishments, labor men, and employers
for the uniform kindness and support received at their hands
in promoting the general industrial welfare of the city in
conjunction with the school. We wish also to thank the several advisory committees for the advice and suggestions offered in many of the detail affairs of the work.

To the several state agents who have in their different
capacities passed upon the work of the school we express our
appreciation. By means of their suggestions and through
the efforts of teachers the Holvoke Vocational School has
been able to rank among the successful schools of the state;
and the write:s believe that it is accomplishing the specific
work for which it was organized.

FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary,
WILLIAM H. WHITNEY, Director.

To the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education:

Your Seeretary submits the following statistical report
on finance, attendanee, accounts, age of pupils, membership,
occupations and other matters:

TABLE I. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SHOWING RECEIPTS
AND EXPENDITURES FOR VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER .

Receipts.
Board of Trustees Expenditures
School Board of
Expenditures Receipts Board Pub. Works
Appropriation .......... 
Retunds from State...........  
Tuition co.cc        
Sale of products and supplies.  
Expenditures.
Secretary occ    es  
Director ve...   ee .
Teaching ........  ee ees  
Clerical work ............ 
Janitor service ..............  
General labor ............  
Office supplies and printing....  
Telephones and traveling......  
Lectures  ...      es  
Books, specimens, ete. ........  
Schoolroom and shop supplies,  

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Library, periodicals, etc. ......  
Health, first aid, etc...........  
Transportation ..........  
Janitor supplies ..............  
Replacement of furniture and
equipment ........ ec   
New furniture and equipment,  
Lunch Room account .........  
Fuel oo...       
Power ...     ce   
Lights ........c   ee    
Gas occ       
Water .....           
Totals...  ... eeee  
Total Receipts—Board of Trustees.......$ 
Total Expenditure—Board of Trustees. ..$ 
Balance Unexpended November .. 
Total Expenditure—Board of Trustees... .$ 
Total Expenditure—School Board........  
Total Expenditure—Board of Public
Works .....cc  ec     ce   es  
Total Expenditure for Vocational EdUCATION Lo.    ce     Ho 
TABLE II. ESTIMATES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER .
SECrEtary oo.     tee   cs esee 
Director .......      tect tteccec ses  
Teaching ....... cc.      c  
Clerical work ......... cc    cc ec tees  
Janitor Service .......        eetc  
General labor ..........    ec  cec acs  
Office supplies and printing ....................--  
Telephones and traveling ..........    ccec   
Lectures .....      et  teaes  
Books, specimens, etc. ..... ecce eces  
School room and shop supplies ..................  
Library, periodicals, etc. ........          
Health, first aid, etc. ........     ees  
Janitor supplies ........     ce  erence tenes  
Replacements of furniture and equipment.........  

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
New furniture and equipment ..............+.+-+-  
Special classes in loomfixing and papermaking.....  
, Total estimates ........ ecc  es—————— 
Less probable receipts ....... eccs ees  
; Appropriation requested   cessees s 
TABLE III. AGE AND MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS.
Day School for Boys.
Age  Average Age years
| Number Enrolment  
Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men.
 
to to to Over
Age Average Age years
Number Enrolment  
Evening Practical Arts Classes for Women.
 
to to to Over
Age Average Age years
Number Enrolment  
TABLE IV. EVENING TRADE EXTENSION STUDENTS
CLASSIFIED BY DAY EMPLOYMENTS.
Bricklayers  Millwrights and Pattern
Cabinet Makers Makers  
Carpenters Papermakers  
Draftsmen Plasterers (Decorative)  
Electricians  +—Printers  
Engineers (steam) Textile Men (General)  
Firemen Unclassified  
Loom Fixers —.
Machinists Toral  
Maintenance Men  Watling List  
TABLE V. STUDENTS IN EVENING PRACTICAL ARTS
CLASSES CLASSIFIED BY DAY EMPLOYMENTS.
Women employed in any capacity may be admitted to these classes.
Binders Burlers  
Bookkeepers Calender Girls  
Box Makers Cashiers  

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Clerks Rulers  
Cutter Girls Sealers  
Doll Makers Sewers  
Envelope Makers Sorters  
Fillers Speeders  
Finishers Spinners  
Folders Spoolers  
Hairdressers Stenographers  
At Home Storekeepers  
Housekeepers Students  
Housework  Teachers  
Inspectors Twisters  
Labelers Weavers |
Laundresses Waitresses  
Loom Girls  Warpers  
Milliners Winders  
Packers Miscellaneous  
Plater Girls —.
Reelers Total  

PART V.

REPORTS OF DEPARTMENT HEADS

This vear the heads of the day school departments—
Carpentry and RBiulding, Machine Shop Practice, Printing,
Pattern Making and general subjects have made speeial reports to the Director. These reports are so complete and so
detailed that it seems best to publish the following excerpts
from them, rather than to present them in full:

CARPENTRY AND BUILDING.

“It  proposed to erect cottage house on land purchased in
Highland Park by the Board of Trustees. The idea is to give practical instruction under master builder to bovs seeking entrance to the
carpenters’ trade through the Vocational School. There is no intention
to ‘build houses for the purpose of competing with those engaged in
the business for livelihood. On the other hand it would not be desirable to sell such house when completed for price below the actual cost of production. There are several ways by which the house
may be disposed of after the full educational value has been derived
from it. It mav be sold to the highest bidder. It may be rented by
the city as income-producing property. It may be disposed of under
the plan of the Homestead Act of Massachusetts, which provides for
the building of moderate-priced homes for workmen with modest
incomes. .

“Since certain types of work necessary to the completion of the
house do not have corresponding trade departments in the school at
present, it will be necessary in the beginning to contract for part of
the work. The Vocational School cannot handle the heating and
plumbing, the papering and painting, the electrical work, and so on.
Consequently about half of the money invested in the work will circulate among the various building trades. The plan will call for the
employment of journeyman carpenter at fair wage who will act as
assistant instructor on the job, and will be held responsible under the
department head for the successful handling of the work, so far as the
construction is concerned. Such an instructor may be employed as a
permanent man, or as temporary instructor coming on the job from

» REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
day to day or week by week, as needed. The scheme as planned offers
two lines of work, one or the other of which will always be in operation as part of the trade instruction for the boy:

“a. Rorgh construction, such as concrete moulds (if concrete is used
as foundation), framing, roof construction and the laying of
lining floors, and stair building.

“b. Mill work and inside finish, including laying floors, trim, china
closets and so on.

“The first can be operated during good weather, and the second
will employ the time of the boys during weather when it is not desirable to work outside. The planning of the work, the arrangement
of groups of boys to work on the job is matter for those in immediate charge of the work.

“In building the house the instructor will be required to have a
knowledge of how to handie boys to ensure good results. He must
frequently give brief talks on the job as the work progresses. He will
oversee the grouping of the boys, raising the advanced ones to be
group foremen. He will keep the groups on the job not less than two
days. He will plan visits to other houses under construction and in
the same stage of construction, to give boys an insight as to how the
work is done by others.

“Assuming that all boys going on job have had tool experience in
shop, these things should be presented for study and work:  Sectional Portable Building for Tool House, ete.; Study of Plans; Staking out Lot; Erection of Guide Boards; Selection and Dimensions of
Timber; Forms for Concrete Foundation Walls; Balloon Frame Construction; Floor Joists; Outside Studding; Carrying and Other Partitions; Rough Stringers for Stairs; Outside Sheathing; Roof Framing; Flashing Sides of Dormers, Valleys and Chimneys; Overhangs
or Jet and Cornice Work; Shingling; Setting of Door and Window
Frames; Clapboarding.” (From Report of Carpentry and Building
Department, E. C. Knapp, Head; Charles Aspden, Assistant. )

,; MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE.

“The shop system and course in trade science now in operation in
the machine department comprises several units, which, when joined as
a whole, make the course in Machtne Shop Practice duplicate of a
commercial shop taking in general work. The workmanship of our students in the shop is of high standard. The product of our system is
the turning out of students trained in all the units and not in actual machine operation alone. These units, taken up in order, are shop practice, shop management, time system, trade mathematics, trade drawing

and trade English. In the largest unit, that is, shop practice, we are

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
at present working on the project basis, the boy completing the job.
We may differ in some respects from the commercial shop in giving
the beginner actual machine operation at the lathe or simple work at
the shaper or milling machine, involving two or three operations. But
this encourages the boy, and spurs him on to greater effort. In a
great many shops the beginner is often times required to do such
work as cleaning up and tool room duty for long drawn-out period.
This undesirable phase of the apprenticeship shop system is taken care
of in the unit of shop management, which calls for the care of particular machine tool, together with its equipment, and also tool room
duty with its check systems, breakage and stock records. The unit in
time system calls for the proper filling out and care of estimate sheets,
routing and time cards. Trade mathematics deals with the mathematics for that particular job in hand. Trade drawing is chiefly
. simple sketches made with six-inch machinist’s scale and pencil and
without the use of instruments. These sketches or drawings with their
measurements and notations of the operations, serve to bring out the
important measurements and the order of the operations. This unit
should not be confused with machine drawing, as this subject is taught
in the class room, and has regular periods assigned to it. Trade English deals with the proper expression of tools, operations and materials. These units are so interwoven and dovetailed into his shop
work that the student does not recognize any particular unit, but accepts them as whole unit, that later on will mean efficiency in machine shop practice.

“An effort is being made to establish course in trade science
for machinists similar to the one endorsed by the Massachusetts State
Board of Education. We recognize the fact that rules of thumb
methods are of but little value and develop nothing but automatic
action. To train the judgment rather than the memory of what books
say about things, and to conserve the spirit of curiosity in the boy,  s
the first step in laying the foundation of what is often called industrial
intelligence. The instruction in trade science will correctly emphasize
the value of lubrication, properties of metals, strength of materials,
screw threads, mechanisms, and heat treatment of steel. This subject

will be taught in the machine shop with apparatus and instruction
sheets, especially designed for this purpose.

“A great deal of material for’ instruction has been submitted from
time to time. Work in trade mathematics, trade drawing and applied
matbematics for machinists, problems of shop management, étc., have
been planned and detailed so that there is on hand an abundance of
material for purposes of instruction in the shop and class room.”
(From Report of Machine Shop Department, E. G. Johnson, Head;
C. E. Dawson, Assistant; R. A. Dowling, Assistant part time.)

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  D
Nore: With reference to this report, which the Secretary edited, it may be said that large amount of splendid
material on trade mathematics and drawing, shop management and practice, etc., was presented. Much of this material, in the conventional grammar or secondary school, would
be classed as text books and courses of study. It is therefore
not published here; but due credit is given to Messrs. Johnson, Dawson and Dowling for their valuable work.
PRINTING.

“In the printing department the system is one of individual training. in which each pupil is advanced according to his ability and application. Emphasis is placed upon the fundamentals, the basic principle
of trade knowledge.

“Employing printers are rapidly raising their standards. Efficiency
is their slogan. Many large printing establishments have suspended
the apprentice system in cities where vocational schools have been established. In cities where none exist, many employers are organizing
schools in connection with their plants, under the direction of competent printer instructors. The National Typothetae, composed of the
master printers of America, have organized an apprentice committee,.
with examining boards in all subordinate branches. The International
Typographical Union has taken more advanced step, now requiring.
all subordinate unions to maintain boards whose duty is to supervise
and examine apprentices, that they may receive the proper instruction:
and serve the required term of years. scale of wages covering dif-ferent phases of the apprenticeship period has also been established. .

“We must do our part. The training must keep pace from year
to year, with trade advancement, so that, at the completion of the
pupil’s allotted course, he will be capable of making proper trade
contact in the shop. This can be accomplished only by giving him the
best up-to-date shop practice. most important element governing
our success in meeting this condition is the type of boy admitted for
trade instruction. The printing industry makes large demand on:
the mentality of its workers. Originality, resourcefulness and keenperception are essentials. printer should be able to make good English out of all sorts of copy presented by customers. boy who has.
failed to make good in his studies in the grades is generally unfit toenter the printing trade. He should be guided to some occupation moresuited to his capacity.

“The introduction of Printing in the grammar schools of the city
offers an opportunity for the guidance and selection of boys with.
special aptitude for Printing.

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
“The department has been running productive shop. The work
has commercial value. Any “rush” work inconsistent with good shop
training is discouraged.

“The pupil’s first concentrated effort in trade training is ‘learning
the case.’ that is, the alphabet and its relation to the type case layout.
A letter in each box in the case is placed face up, in proper position,
and readily distinguished. No charts are used. They seem too complicated. The letter and box location is memorized in alphabetical
order. The type is immediately interesting in itself, and the result is
the rapid memorizing of the case layout. Sometimes at the end of
thirty minutes the case layout is memorized, always within an hour.
The following thirty minutes is generally sufficient to distinguish the
characters, d, b, p,q. The boy is then taught to reason out the various
processes and elements of his work. His progress is recorded from day
today. Heis soon setting up and distributing straight matter. Work is
laid out to meet the capacity of each pupil, that he may show definite
progress. At the end of from eight to ten weeks he is performing the
processes of mathematical calculation, estimating, layout, composition,
press work, cutting of stock, record of time, etc., of filing cards, tickets,
and shop records.”

Note: At this point, Mr. Grady presented great many
sainples of finished work, showing objectively in detail the
progress of his classes. This work need not be reproduced
here, nor does it seem necessary to publish other sections of
his report.

“Printing trade operations require continuous train of original
ideas. Artistic arrangement of form and color harmony, of type faces
and decoration are prime essentials of efficiency. The value of freehand drawing, outside of training the mind and hand to originate
symmetrical form and balance, lies in the fact that it records com‘pleted idea or picture, which, when applied, produces the job accurately
with less effort, and no interruption of the constructive plan. It  s
the blue-print of the trade. )

“We would recommend the providing of suitable arrangements
tor the teaching of design. Under present conditions it is hard to get
satisfactory results. Our hand lever paper cutter might be exchanged
for moderate priced power cutter, with safety appliances. There is
an ever-present danger in using the lever cutter.” (From Report of
Printing Department, W. F. Grady, Head.)

PATTERN MAKING,

“The purpose of this report is to make clear statement as to

what the pattern making department has done in the short time that it

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
has been established, and to show the future needs, so that this department may continue in the work along lines of improvement. The
outline will be considered under the headings of Summary, Recommendations and Needs.

“As to Summary. When one gives due consideration to the fact
that the larger part of the work handled in the pattern shop  advanced, while the majority of the boys are beginners, the amount and
quality of the work completed is encouraging. Besides completing
  patterns, the boys have finished other woodworking jobs, made
their own work benches, moved the pattern equipment from the carpenter shop and reset it in the present quarters, and attended their
class room work from twenty to fifty per cent of their time. In
Table below are shown the number and rating by phases of the boys
who attended the department durine this period.

TABLE I.
Year #|  
Month    
Phase    
Phase a) a) a) a) et al el  
Phase ft tt tt tt @l  
TABLE II. CLASSIFICATION OF PATTERNS COMPLETED FROM SEP- .
TEMBER TO JANUARY .
| ComWork Vocational School Departments) City mer- Totals
cial .
» ls el,
  bad
By Phases   
oF ou gw an “Ome Os  wo  )» m
Phase |  
Phase  
Phase  |  
Totals  
Percentage  
Work as Finished as Per Rating of Patternmakers.
Phase a) as 
Phase  
Phase  OT OT OO} 
Totals   

“As to Recommendations. An Advisory Committee of local shop

men for the Pattern Making department, composed of not less than

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

two active pattern makers and one or more foundrymen, is very much

needed. Through these men closer contact with the commercial
shops could be obtained, as well as giving the department head representative group of men from the trades, with whom he could discuss.

the local needs.

“With some additional equipment, the pressing need of drafting
department could be met, for the time at least, by putting few boys
from both the Pattern and Machine departments, who show special
talent along this line, on full time at working out the details of large
construction work which is going through these shops.

“In order to give the boy the necessary training in the applied
trades of pattern maker; that is, training in the principles of both
foundry and machine shop practice, that would be an immediate asset
to him, arrangements are needed whereby small groups can get this
knowledge. It would probably mean less production of actual finished
work, but by far better training for the boy who is the real product
of the shop.

“As to Needs. This chiefly concerns equipment. We need a
small band saw, band saw filer and setter, heavy pattern maker’s
lathe with carriage, motor and air ducts for waste in shop, pattern
marker, and an exhibition case for finished work.” (From Report of
Pattern Making Department, A. T. Stubbs, Head.)

GENERAL SUBJECTS.

“Applied Mathematics. The question of mathematics in the class
room is important because each student must have the ‘mathematical
sense’ of his trade. The printer must know how to find the number
of ems in certain job. The machinist must know how to estimate
the single depth of standard U. S. screw having twelve threads to
the inch. The carpenter must know how to figure the number of
board feet of lumber required in given job in the shop. These and
many other problems of more complex nature confront every student. Hence the need for applied mathematics.

“In order that time may not be lost in making out time cards incorrectly, the first few weeks of applied mathematics for the first
phase boys are used in making out and estimating time cards similar to
those used in the various shops. Examples taken directly from their
shops are used. The students take renewed interest and arithmetic is
no longer to them an abstract mental puzzling, but concrete business
necessity, which they must master if they wish to become efficient in
their respective trades. In many trades, like the machinists’ trade,
there is demand for quick mathematical procedure. This is accomplished by the use of formulae. In order to get command of these,

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
repetition is an absolute necessity. The work in class room is so arranged that the student will, after few weeks, memorize the leading
mathematical short cuts in his trade.”

“The following is an outline of English taught in the class room:
“I. General Vocational English.

“A. Business Letter Writing: Application for ‘job.’

( Night letters and telegrams. Order letters and
‘order blanks.’ Summary of week, month or year’s
work with financial statement.

“B. Business Transactions: Sale of goods. Bills
and receipts. Notes—their elements. Checks—
endorsements and certification. Contracts—(a)
Competent parties. (b) Legal status. (c) Agreement
of parties concerned. (d) Pecuniary considerations.
( Real Estate—(a) Deeds. (b) Mortgages. (c) Legal status of landlord, tenant, and lessee.

“TI. Applied English.

“A. English as ‘Tool’: Everyday social experiences
—(a) Ball game, etc. (b) Telephoning and telegraphing. (c) Discussion of local questions. Every day
business experiences—(a) Directing person to get a
desired position. (b) Explaining jobs being carried on
in the shop. (c) Banking and its place in business.

“Example of what is done under ‘How to get desired position.’

All tradesmen are sooner or later required to seek positions. Therefore all our students must prepare themselves to undergo this experience in manner that will not reflect on their individual abilities or
cause them untold anxiety and nervousness.

“Since all men seeking positions must be able to meet their future

employer in way that will command his interest, the student is first

taught how to approach the ‘man in the office” The big man of business  keen and farsighted, and his first impression and last impression are quite liable to stand out prominently, hence, the advisability

cf teaching the student to enter the office with business determination, and leave it with business punctuality. Of course, the applicant

. must feel confident in his own ability to secure the position desired,

for many capable man lacking confidence in himself while talking

with the ‘man higher up’ has failed in his important mission, not because he was incapable, but because he lacked determination to win.

The boys are often called upon to approach the teacher, who acts as

‘boss,’ and apply for job. Care is taken that they do not flounder

while on their feet, lean on the desk, etc. The boy is required to

speak to the boss and not some faraway corner. He is taught to tell

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

a complete story, thus saving the employer from going through the
tiresome operation of ‘pumping’ out his experience at his trade, references, etc. Odd questions are asked him, thus making it absolutely important that he gain the ability to express himself quickly and truthfully. Last of all he is asked to fill out application blanks, such as
the larger firms are using today. These ask for age, experience, references, etc. Finally, after the interview in over, the boy is taught how
to make ‘get away’ in polite and energetic manner, and thus make
his last impression favorable one.

“The work of classes in citizenship covers federal, state and local
government, together with the elementary laws which govern economics, sociology, and the duties of citizenship. Special emphasis is placed
on this part of the training in order that the boy may become an asset
to the community in which he lives. With this idea in mind, the boy
is given working knowledge of the fundamental principles of government, reinforced with the information necessary to make him a
good citizen.

“The method of instruction is somewhat different from that generally used in school work, especially in relation to local government.
Using the school as center, the boys are taken on inspection trips

. through the several city departments, manufacturing establishments, and
other places of interest in the locality. Thus, they receive at first hand,
by personal observation, knowledge that could not be obtained by any
other method. The special points in which each boy becomes interested are then discussed at some future gathering, to the enlightenment of the entire class. Annual reports, legal papers, and various
text books are used to help make difficult points clearer. In the treatment of the state and national government, find that the boy takes
a deeper interest in the subject if he can compare present-day happenings with facts set forth in his text book. To supply this need, and
to develop responsibility in saving material for the class room work,
each boy is required to hand in newspaper clippings, and to keep in
touch with current topics and problems as they appear. He is also required to read editorial comments as presented by newspapers. Several
of the standard magazines are used in getting this condensed information in form which is easily understood by the boy. Here, again,
after finding the desired facts, the boy discusses his subjects in detail
hefore the entire class. As this form of instruction has been used in
the school only few months, it is too early to pass final judgment on
it. The work has so far been satisfactory, has created an interest

among the boys, in that they are at all times looking for articles relating to given subject or for other subjects of interest, and the results are encouraging.

“The immediate aim of the course in citizenship training is to

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL all
teach the boy to act with intelligence regarding certain local situations,
such as: .

“ proper attitude toward his home and surroundings.

“ Due regard for the rights of his fellows, both in and out of
school.

“ proper respect for the school, of which he is part.

“ high regard for school authorities and an appreciation of the
opportunities afforded by public education. Suitable magazine and
newspaper articles along these lines are available for reading.

“ An appreciation of the value of team work or co-operation in his
school studies, his work in the shops, and his social and athletic
work in connection with his fellow students or with community.
activities outside the school. |

‘ proper attitude toward and respect for those with whom he is
to seek employment in the industrial field.

“The ultimate aim of this course is to train the boy so that he
will become an intelligent citizen, capable of taking his place in the
civilization of which he finds himself part. He must be taught to
think intelligently and reason logically about certain local, state and
national situations with which he, as citizen, is bound to come in
contact, and which offer material for discussion and study within his
capacity. As prospective citizen he should be in possession of certain information and should be capable of reasoning on such points as
follow:

“ How does the City Council transact business?

“ Why is it desirable to have an inspector of public buildings?

“ What is the value of city parks in congested districts?

“ Why should the city pay for the collection and disposal of garbage?

“ Who pays the property tax in ten-family apartment house?

“ Why was the employers’ liability act established?

“ How is an industrial accident situation handled ?

“ Why is it considered best to have the post office under the control
of the national government?

“ How may agencies be established for promoting international
peace ?

“The general method of presenting this subject is to bring up for
discussion such topics as the boy meets every day in connection with
local situations. Questions are raised regarding city water supply,
baby milk stations, distribution of gas and electricity, control of public
health, civil service, building of highways, inspection of public buildings. From these specific instances with which the boy is more or les 

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL

familiar, the work progresses through the informal study of local, city
or town government to phases of the work which introduce state, national and international questions.

“The time devoted to citizenship training covers eighty hours a
year for four years.” (From Report on General Subjects by W. H.
Whitney, P. S. Sheehan, and R. A. Dowling.)

“The policy of the Vocational School in all physical education is
‘Physical Training rather than Physical Straining.’ The work of this
department began in October,  Medical examinations, physical
examinations and records of all boys of the school were made. The
several kinds of work planned for the gymnasium may be grouped
under two heads:

“I. Formal, consisting of marching, calisthenics and apparatus.

. “II. Informal, consisting of games, running, free period, bath.

“On the floor of the gymnasium the boys are divided into groups.
Leaders selected from their number are assigned to these as group instructors. The classes reporting to gymnasium are each made up of
about sixty boys, in charge of two teachers. While one group is assigned to the gymnasium floor the second group uses the swimming
pool. The groups then change places. The athletics for the year have
consisted chiefly of basketball. The boys have been successful in carrying on an organization which is credit to the school. As member
of the Connecticut Valley Vocational School League the school has
won its share of games. very decided improvement in the character of the work throughout the school rather indicates that the effect
of well-guided and well-regulated physical training is exercising the
proper influence on the individual members attending these classes.

“In hygiene, the following topics have formed the basis for informal talks during the year: The causes of disease; occupational
diseases; the body’s defenses against disease; common colds and their
prevention; tuberculosis, its cause and prevention; teeth. tonsils and
adenoids; the ‘Why’ of alcohol; handicaps—cigarettes, alcohol; typhoid
fever; insects in disease.

“In physiolyogy these topics have been taken up: Circulation, respiration, digestion; nervous and excretory systems; relation of diet.
exercise, environment, habits to physical and mental efficiency.” (From
Report of Dr. W. F. Cobb and C. E. Dawson.)

PART VI.

GENERAL SURVEY OF PAPERMAKING INDUSTRY IN HOLYOKE
The first four charts on the pages which follow illustrate in general way some of the conditions and facts

which the Vocational School should know, before proding
to offer instruction in large way in Holyoke’s most promi- —
nent industry. The other six charts show, in the ideal perhaps, plan by which such instruction may be offered to the
papermakers of the city.

The general survey which brought out the facts presented in the charts had its origin in an evening class in the.
‘‘Chemistry of Papermaking,’’ conducted in the Vocational
School for about two years. It developed that, on account
of the three tour system of employment, the attendance of
employes in evening classes was necessarily very irregular;
that many did not want instruction in Chemistry; that those
who had it for.a year or so wanted something else; and that
special equipment and supplies were needed if the work was
t progress and be of real help to those in the paper industry.

The investigation was made and the results were explained on January to group of manufacturers,
employers, employes, labor representatives, and school officials. The conference was successful one. All parties
concerned were anxious to have the instruction in papermaking made more comprehensive and more suited to the
needs of the men in the trade. How this would be done and
how far the school authorities should go were questions left
unsettled. But the co-operation of employers and employees
with the school authorities for the best interests of the pa  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL 
per industry of the city was assured—and in this alone,
much was accomplished.

It was practically decided at the conference that the
Board of Trustees for Vocational Education, with the Secretary and Director, should formulate definite plan for the
opening and developing, in broad way, of classes in various
branches of the papermaking industry to meet the needs and
wants of employers and employees as explained in the meeting.

It was later decided that, since further details demanded
consideration—such as mechanical equipment, renting of
quarters, securing of teachers, etc.; and since the evening
school year was drawing to close, it would be better to defer organizing the work until September,  The proposition rests there now. The work will go forward next September along well-planned lines.

PART VII.
ORGANIZATION MARCH 
William H. Whitney, Director Day and Evening School,

  Northampton Street
Civies, Supervision
State Approval
Eric G. Johnson, Day and Evening School,
  Orchard Street
State Approval
Foreman, J. G. Blount Mfg. Co., Everett, Mass.
Instructor, Everett Technical High School
Instructor, Wentworth Institute, Boston
Edwin C. Knapp, Day and Evening School,
  Daviston Street, Springfield, Mass.
State Approval |
Trade Teacher, Springfield Vocational School
Alden T. Stubbs, Day and Evening School,
  St. Jerome Avenue
State Approval
Six years’ apprenticeship in job and pattern shops
Instructor of Apprentices in Mechanical Drawing, Everett High School
Instructor in Shop Drawing and Blue Print Reading,
Everett Evening Industrial School
William F. Grady, Day and Evening ‘School,
  Pearl Street
State Approval
Wilson H. Lee Publishing Co., New Haven, Conn. |
Boardman Apprentice Shops, New Haven
Extension Work, Yale University

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Charles E. Dawson, Day and Evening School,
  Orchard Street
State Approval —
Machinist, J. G. Blount Mfg. Co., Everett, Mass.
Assistant Instructor in Machine Shop Practice, Everett
Evening Industrial School, one year
Assistant Instructor in Machine Shop Practice, Wentworth Institute, one year.
Charles Aspden, Day and Evening School,
  Dwight Street
State Approval
M. J. Walsh Sons, Holyoke
Parfitt Building Co., Holyoke
W. Burr, Springfield, Mass.
Five years’ experience as foreman builder
Paul  Sheehan, Day and Evening School,
  Suffolk Street
State Approval
English, Mathematics, Industrial History
Teachers’ College, Columbia University
Robert A. Dowling, Day and Evening School,
  Clark Street, Westfield, Mass.
State Approval
Machine Shop, Mathematics, Civics
Three years’ experience, Westfield Industrial
School.
Frank M. O’Neil, Evening School,
  North East Street
State Approval
Bricklaying .
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
General Contractor
John F. Shea, Evening School,
' Chestnut Street
State /.pproval |

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Press Work
M. J. Doyle Printing Co., Holyoke, four years
Eureka Ruling Binding Co., Holyoke, one year
Foreman of Apprentices, White Wyckoff Mfg. Co.,
Holyoke, ten years
Thomas L. Batzel, Evening School,
  Lyfred Street, Springfield, Mass.
State Approval
Steam Engineering
Seventeen years’ practical experience
Thomas F. Gibbons, Evening School,
  Laurel Street
State Approval
Steam Engineering
Fifteen years’ practical experience
Byron H. Merrill, Evening School,
  High Street
State Approval
Electricity
Graduate of Franklin Union, Boston Electrical Course
Eleven vears’ general experience at electrical trades
Instructor of Apprentices, Western Electric Co., Boston
John M. Newton, Evening School
o  Chase Avenue, Springfield, Mass.
Electricity—Motors and Generators
The Roland T. Oakes Co., Holyoke
Charles W. Rieser, Evening School,
  Miller Avenue
State Approval
Papermaking
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Assistant Chemist, American Writing Paper Co., three
years
William Wylie, Evening School
  Linden Street

 REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
State Approval
Machine Shop Practice
Instructor of Apprentice Machinists, ten years
Emploved by Holyoke Machine Co. and Ford Auger Bit
Co., Holyoke; Smith Wesson Co., Springfield, Mass.
Harry Bailey, Evening School,
  Cabot Street .
State Approval
Machine Shop Practice
Instructor of Apprentices, Deane Steam Pump Co., Hol- ;
yoke, twelve years
Foreman of Tool Making Department, Deane Steam
Pump Co.
James Webb, Evening School
  Lebanon Street, Springfield, Mass.
State Approval
Instructor in Decorative Plastering
Stephen E. MeKenna, Evening School,
  Northampton Street
State Approval
Textile Design
Philadelphia Textile School
Designer, Germania Mills, Holvoke
Charles H. Pickup, Evening School,
Wilhimansett, Mass.
State Approval
Loomfixing
Woolen Course, I. C. S.
Overseer, Weaving Department, Farr Alpaca Co., Holyoke
George Welsh, Evening School,
  Riverdale Street, West Springfield, Mass.
State Approval
Cabinet Making
Foreman, Casper Ranger Construction Co., Holyoke

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Evening School,
  Fairfield Avenue
Supervisor of Practical Arts Classes
State Approval
Mrs. Charles E. Thunert, Evening School,
  Main Street
State Approval :
Dressmaking
Alice E. Fenton, Evening School,
  Suffolk Street
State Approval
Dressmaking
Mrs. Alice Davis, Evening School,
  Taylor Street
State Approval
Dressmaking
Mrs. Mary A. Hatch, Evening School,
  Hampden Street
State Approval
Dressmaking
Mrs. Josephine Peabody, Evening School,
  Pine Street ,
State Approval
‘ Dressmaking
Mrs. Ellen A. O’Connell, Evening School,
  Northampton Street
State Approval
Cooking
Bessie T. MeGuines, Evening School,
  Walnut Street
Cooking
Mrs. Katherine Groot, Evening School,
  Central Street, Springfield, Mass.
State Approval
Millinery

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Elizabeth Glennon, Evening School,
  North Pleasant Street
Millinery
D. H. Brigham Co., Springfield, Mass.
Gage Bros., New York City
Mrs. Gina de Leon, Evening School,
  River Terrace
State Approval
Embroidery
Mrs. Grace S. Benton, R. N., Evening School,
  Gilman Street
State Approval
Home Nursing
Graduate of Holyoke City Hospital

ROSTER OF DAY SCHOOL PUPILS
MARCH 
CARPENTRY AND BUILDING.
First Year Class.
Gustave Bartsch Williain Kelliher
Raymond Creran William Kennedy
Albert Frappier Walter Klaskawski
Homer Freniere Robert La Duke
Aubin Gamache William Lally
William Gorham Edward Loiseau
John Gorman Peter Mason
Howard Greaney John Monahan
Cornelius Haley Leo Moynihan
John Haley Benjamin Odabashian
Daniel Hartnett Charles Peck
Arthur L. Hoffman Ienry Pendergast
Joseph Judson Harold Powers
Charles Keane Louis Turgeon
Frank Wood
Advanced Class.

Fred Graham William O’Neill
Emory Hill James Sullivan
John Knightly Harry Thorpe
Adelard Moreau Edgar Waring
Timothy O’Brien Julius Weiland

  REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE.
First Year Class.
Harold Abbott Henry Hickey
Rosario Bellefeuille John W. Huebner
Isadore Berkowitz John Kane |
Antonio Brodeur Lambert Keull
Allan Burnett Bolek Komisar
Roland Burnett Frank Leja
William Cadigan Lionel Masse
Edward Callahan Michael Moriarty
Charles Chagnon Raymond Moriarty
Roland Chateuneuf Michael Morrison
Fred Dame Charles O’Connor
Charles Dudley Edward Pievezwnski
Walter Felsentrager Ernest Provost
James Fisher Romeo Samson
Roger Fitch Walter E. Stich
Urban Frappier Francis Tierney
Jeremiah Geran Rodolph Walz
: Henry Wennenger
Advanced Class.
William Beck Edwin Goss
Rosario Bibeau Arthur Hutchins
Henry Briere Robert Jenkins
Ralph C. Brougham Carl Larson
Thomas Daly Leon Leonard
Harrington Fay John Schmidt
Bartholomew Gill Claude Thomson
Harold Young
| PATTERN MAKING.
First Year Class.
John Belaire Henry Francoeur ,
Hfenry Bourassa Philip Haslon
Adelard Fagnant William Heinicke
| Henry Whalley

REPORT OF THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL  
Advanced Class. ;
Alfred Belanger Vernon Luce
Frank Brogle Warren Smith
Walter Crowson Lester White }
Leo Wynn
| PRINTING.
First Year Class.
Jeremiah Aubrey Francis O’Neill
Adrian Chaput William Schmaelzle
Charles Curtin Edward Shea
Thomas Debiens Raymond Shea
Joseph Hancock Raymond Smith
Frank Kennedy Winfield Struthers
Norbert Mandeville John Tremper
Thomas McCarthy John Whalen
Alexander O’Donnell Clarence Wuth
Advanced Class.
Alfred Baush Joseph Masta]
Willard Burgess William Murphy
Francis Chouinard Charles Ross
Frank Hallissey Charles Schindler
Charles Hudson. Joseph Sefcik

REPORT OF THE
e
Gas and Electric Department
City of Holyoke, Massachusetts,
Office of Gas and Electric Department,
January .
To the Honorable, The Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: have the honor to submit herewith, the
report of the Gas and Eleetrie Department for the year ending November the same being the thirteenth annual
report of the department.

THE GAS WORKS.

The gas sent out was cubie feet, an inerease
of per cent over the amount sent out the previous year.

On February the price of gas was reduced from
$  thousand cubie feet net to cents thousand eubie
feet net. The receipts for gas sold in amounted t@
$ and in  to decrease for  
of or decrease of per cent.

About feet of gas mains were laid, new gas
services run and new gas meters set, making the total
number of meters in service,  .

A  -inch gas main was laid in Canal Street from the
holder in Ward Two to Hamilton Street, then in Hamilton
Street from Canal Street to Bridge Street, connecting with
the  -inch main going to the holder in South Bridge Street.

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  

A  -inch main was laid in Appleton Street from Race
Street to Bond Street, and in Bond Street from Appleton
Street to Cabot Street, and in Commercial Street from Cabot
Street to Sargeant Street, and in Sargeant Street from Commercial Street to Maple Street, connecting with the  -inch
main in Sargeant Street.

In Bh Street, an  -inch main was laid from Sargeant
Street to Northampton Street. In Essex Street,  -inch
main was laid from Bond Street to Poplar Street. In Pleasant Street, an  -inch main was laid from Essex Street to the
dingle in Highland Park.

Several other mains were laid in various parts of the
city, which with the above resulted in improving the gas
pressure throughout the city. Under ordinary conditions,
the major part of such work would be distributed over period of years, but owing to the general business d“pression,
which affected this city as badly as any city in the country,
it was thought advisable to do an unusual amount of this

* work in order to give work to the unemployed.

Since these mains were laid, we have received very few,
if any, complaints of poor pressure that can be attributed to
small gas mains. The complaints now coming to the Department are mostly the result of improper or inadequate
piping in houses or buildings from which the complaints
come. .

A coke conveyor, storage, crushing and sorting plant
has been installed at the Gas Works, and we are now prepared to sell, and have been selling coke in various sizes,
during the greater part of the year.

RECEIPTS FOR BY-PRODUCTS.
Cash received for coke ....................... 
Cash received for tar .................. -...  
Cash received for ammonia ....................  
The Department required the contractors of the new

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT

gas plant to dismantle and rebuild the six benches down to
the level of the producers, using silica brick instead of clay
brick which was originally used. Since four of the six
benches have been tested and found to be satisfactory, it is
probable that the plant will be accepted during the current
month.

ELECTRIC STATION.

The current generated at the Electric Station amounted
to kilowatts, decrease of per cent in the
amount generated in  The current sent out amounted
to kilowatts, decrease of per cent in the
amount sent out in  The receipts for electricity in  
amounted to In  the receipts amounted
to decrease of or  per cent.

During the year, new electric meters were installed,
making the total number of electric meters in service,  .

, New ornamental luminous are lamps were installed in Main
street from Mosher street southerly to Canal street near the
Holyoke Paper Company mill.

Chapter No. of the Acts of  and Chapter No.
  of the Acts of provide that vacation of two weeks,
without loss of pay, shall be given to all persons regularly
employed by the city, who are classified as common laborers,
skilled laborers, mechanics or craftsmen. During the past
year, such vacations were given to regularly employed persons in this Department, which is the principal reason for
the apparent increase in wages at both the Electric Station
and the Gas Works.

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN J. KIRKPATRICK, Manager.

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
The following tables concisely set forth the operations
of the Department during the year ending November  ,
 |
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
Receipts .........        
Expenditures ............. ,
Depreciation ..................... 
Bond payments .................. |
Interest payments ................  
Additions to plants ..............  
Operation and maintenance .......  
Total expenditures ........... ——————. 
Excess of receipts over expenditures,  
Taken from Department by vote of
Board of Aldermen to apply on
loan account ............. --  
Balance ............    
ADDITIONS TO PLANTS DURING THE YEAR.
Gas real estate ................. 
Machinery and appliances ........  
Gas mains .................-....-  
Gas meters ............      
Additions to gas plant ........... ——————. 
Electric real estate .............. 
Blectric plant ....................  
Electric water plant ..............  
Blectric steam plant ..............  
Electric lines (overhead) .......... |
Electric lines (underground) ......  
Electric street lights ..............  
Electric transformers ............. }

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Electric meters ...............  
Additions to electric plant ........ —————. 
Total additions .............. 
Money provided for above additions as follows:
Bond issue ........... e++ 
From depreciation cash ...........  
From receipts ..................-.  
———— 
The following tables show the growth of the Department
since the city acquired the lighting plants:
-  
Gas sent out, cubic feet ............  
Gas meters set .........     
Miles of main pipe laid ............  
Electricity sent out, (Kilowatts (estimated for  ..............  
Maximum power used, H. P......... 
Number of customers ..............  
Number of electric meters set .......  
Number of transformers set ........  
Miles of wire in streets .............  
Poles in streets ............  
Capacity of station, II. P............  
Are street lights ...............  
Ineandescent street lights .......... 
Price of are street lights ............ and 
Net price of gas per thousand cubie
a e
Net price of electricity per Kilowatt
(estimated ave. for  .......  e
 Dee.  Nov.  ,
 
Cost of plants .................-.+.  

' REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
Book value of plants ...............  
Amount added to plants from loans in
thirteen years .............  
Amount added to plants from earnings in thirteen years............  
Bonds paid out of earnings .........  
The following tables present data from the records of the
Gas Works:
Gas distributed, cubic feet ....................  
Coal carbonized, tons ...........  ...     
Gas oil used, gallons ............. ce wees  
‘Coke made, tons ..........       ees  
Coke used in producers, tons .................  
Coke used in water gas generators, tons ........  
Coke used in boilers, tons ............ 
Coke sold, tons .............       
Tar made, gallons ........  ... ce        
Tar sold, gallons ........  ...  ...          
Tar sold to city for highways, gallons ..........  
Ammoniacal liquor (concentrated) sold, pounds.  
GAS MAINS AND SERVICES.
Laid in Total laid
  inch, feet
my ‘'
Wy feet *
  ‘'
 SS “‘
  ‘‘
  ‘‘
  ‘e ‘'
  “‘
  ‘‘ ‘'

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
  ‘S
  ‘'
  feet feet
Making total of miles laid. :
GAS MAINS ABANDONED OR TAKEN UP.
Replaced by larger mains.
  inch, feet Allyn St., Abandoned
Wy ‘‘ Appleton St., Taken up
wy ‘* Arlington St., Taken up
  ‘* Essex St., Abandoned
 ‘* Hamilton St., Taken up
Ww, ‘* Sargeant St., Abandoned
Wy, ‘** Summer  t., Abandoned
wy ‘* Essex St., Abandoned
Wi ‘* Sargeant St., Abandoned
  ‘‘ Northampton St., Abandoned ‘* Bh St., Abandoned
  “é ‘‘ Pleasant St., Abandoned
 ‘‘ Sargeant St., Abandoned:
  “**‘ Appleton St., Taken up
 ‘* Canal t., Taken up
  ‘* Commercial St., Taken up
 ‘* Oak St., Abandoned
  ‘‘ Appleton St., Taken up
 ‘‘ Bond St., Taken up
 ** Canal St., Taken up
 ‘‘ Pleasant St., Abandoned
  ‘e ‘* Appleton St., Taken up
  “é ‘* Cabot St., Taken up

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  

NUMBER OF GAS SERVICES RUN.
Ty inch ow cc  teen tect c  A
.  

NUMBER OF GAS METERS IN USE.
  light meters set December  .............. ‘S co“ re  ‘e co“ Lene eens ‘S co“ re  SS ‘e “ce re eo“ Lecce      
a SS  cou“ Lecce     ‘' ‘é co“ Leen    

 ‘!  co“ Lee  :
  ‘S co“ Lecce    ‘‘ ces Lecce     ‘‘ “e ceo Lecce      
Regular meters set December  ..............  
Prepay meters set December  ................  
|  
Gain in meters set, or per cent.
Net price of gas cents thousand cubic feet.

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT

The following tables present data from the records of
Electric Station.
Current generated, Kilowatts .................  
Current sent out, Kilowatts ..................  
Total number of customers ..............  
Power customers ........... ec      t  
Miles of Wire ........  ...        
Number of poles ..........         
Transformers  USC ........    
Meters set .....  Sec     
Steam coal used, tonS ..........  ...      
Commercial are lamps .............    eens  
Street are lamps, carbon ............... 
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten...  
Street incandescent lamps, Watt Tungsten ....  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P. Tungsten...  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P. Tungsten...  
Street ine indescent lamps,  Watt Tungsten...  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P.............  
Street incandescent lamps, C. P..............  
Luminous are street lamps ............... --  

Net price of electricity for lighting six cents per Kailowatt.

PRICES OF ELECTRICITY IN FORCE
NOVEMBER |

Rate of metered electricity for lighting cents per K. W.
Hour, with discount of cents per K. W. Hour, if paid
within ten days from date of bill. Minimum bill, cents
per month, with discount of cents, if paid within ten days
from date of bill.

Flaming ares, cents per K. W. Hour extra for maintenance.

Rates for electric power, cents per K. W. Hour subject to the following discounts:

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
DISCOUNTS.
Bills of  or less per mo. ie
Bills from  to  per mo. :
Bills from  to  per mo.  
Bills from  to  per mo. 
Bills from  to  per mo. Co
Rills over Co
) NET RATES.
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, cts. per K. W. Hour
  H. P. av. hourly use, ets. per K. W. [our
Minimum bill, cents per month, with discount of  
eents if paid within ten days from date of bill.
 desk fans,  per month
 desk fan  per month
  watt fan  per month
Ceiling fan  per month
Above prices for six days. For seven days, add one-sixth.
Ineandescent lights e. p. on contract.
Six or seven nights per week until p. m.,  per
year.
Seven nights per week, run all night,  per vear.
Ten per cent discount if paid within ten days from date
of bill. ;
  ce. p. the above prices
  ec. p. the above prices
  ec. p. twice the above prices
  e. till p. m.,  per year

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
TUNGSTEN ARCS.

  Watt, nights to p.m. .........  per year, net
  Watt, nights toll p.m........... per year, net
TypE ‘‘C’’ ARCS.

  Watt, nights to p. m...............  per year |
  Watt, nights toll p. m............... per year
  Watt, nights to p.m. ............ per year
  Watt, nights to  p.m. ............ per year
Contract sign lights, cents per K. W. Hour, net.
Charging automobile batteries at Electric Station,  
cents and  each, net, according to size.
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
Onamental street lamps (undergiound) .....  per year
Two cents per K. W. Hour for power and light.
Street arcS ..........    ec  per year
Street p. ine...................-.+ ++- per year
Street p. ine...................--.-.. per year
Street Tungsten, Watt ................. per year
Street Tungsten, Watt ................. per year
Street Tungsten, Watt ................. per year
Street, Tungsten, Watt ................. per year
Street Tungsten, Watt ................ per year

‘REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
BALANCE SHERT.
ASSETS.
Cash im extension fund ........ 
Cash in bond payment fund ....  
Cash in interest payment fund... |
Accounts receivable, gas ........  
Accounts receivable, electric ....  
Accounts receivable, sundries....  
Accounts receivable, suspense...  Aecounts receivable, gas appliANCES ...          
Current Assets ................ ——————— 
Inventories ...........    
Prepaid insurance ............  
Total inventories ...............§ ——————  
Gas real estate ................ 
Gas machinery and manufacturIng appliances ............  
Gas mains ............    
Gas meters ..........    
Total gas plant ................ ————————  
Electric real estate ............ 
Electric steam plant ..........  
Electric water plant ...........  
Electric electric plant ...:......  
Eleceric lines overhead ........  
Electric lines underground......  
Electric transformers .......... |
Electric meters ................  
Electric street ares ............  
Electric street incandescents....  
Total electric plant ........... ——————— 
Total assets ...........     

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
LIABILITIES AND SURPLUS.
Operation fund overdrawn ..... 
Loan account, city of Holyoke...  
Prepaid gas consumers ........  
Bonds outstanding ............ 
‘ Accrued interest on bonds ......  
Total habilities ................. ———.  
SURPLUS. |
Balanee November  ..... 
Profit from operation of plants
for year ending November
 ..................  
——————. 
Total labilities and surplus .... 

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMFNT  
GAS MANUFACTURING ACCOUNT YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER .
Income.
Income from sale of gas, 
Income from meter rents,  
Total, ————— 
Manufacturing Expenses.
Gas coal, 
Gas oil,  
Gas steam coal,  
Purifying material,  
Water,  
Wages at works,  
Repairs, real estate,  
Repairs at works,  
Works tools,  
Laboratory expense,  
Water power rental, 
$ 
Deduct by product sales,
Coke, 
Tar, |
Ammonia,  
——  
Manufacturing cost, ——§—  
Repairs, gas mains,  
Repairs, gas meters,  
Distribution tools,  
Reading meters,  
Gas appliances, .
. Distribution cost, ———---  
Advertising,  
General salaries,  
General office expense, ;
Insurance,  
Stable and garage, ,
Workmen’s compensation,  
Auditor’s fees,  
Bad debts,  
Depreciation,  
Interest,  
$ 
. Less premium on bond issue,  
Commercial and General
Expenses, ————  
Total Expenses, ———————  :
Net Profit—Gas, .

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
ELECTRIC MANUFACTURING ACCOUNT YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .

Income. ,
Income from sales of electricity............     eso 
Manufacturing Expenses.
Coal coc       even ce se  
Oil and waste ...... vce          
Station wages .......c.c     
Water power rental ...................  
Station tools ........ cc       
Repairs, real estate ................-..-  
Repairs, electric plant .................  
Repairs, water plant .............  
Repairs, steam plant ...................  
Water .....         eccese 
Manufacturing Cost .............-——— 
Repairs, lines (overhead)..............  
Repairs, lines (underground)...........  
Repairs, street lights ..............  
Repairs, transformers ...........e.  
Repairs, meters .........v   
Electrodes ......             
Incandescent street lamps............ 
Commercial incandescent lamps ........  
Globes...   ce   cence teens  
Care of street arc lights................  
Reading meters ...........ec  
Distribution tools ............   wees  
Distributing Cost ............. +. --  —-  
Advertising wo...        
General salaries ........  se  
General office expense .......... -+  
Insurance ........ cc   ec       
Stable and garage ...........   
Auditors’ fees .......c          
Workmen’s compensation ...........++ 
Bad debts ........      teen eens  
, Depreciation ........ ccecc    
Interest co...  ce   ee es  
$ 
Less premium on bond issue............  
Commercial and General Expense...—————  
Total Expense .......... ce  eens ——————  
Net Profit—Electricity.........      ce oe 

 
,
eewnmosts os so o
Seg ece es Sse S
gs  sg esig
ES -c  Ss 
ire) on Ss So S, S, S,
SH DEM Se wool wr
 Ss ae fs mo moe oe) —
SoG i.  ,
O Zz fo) *
om  
o be

w *
wn .* uw
  ial
Gan nt ya  ‘a 
Gae fue es cs
&e So  oo
—- ad
Se Ror ‘ay x
» am e.? rn veer
Ne} Zz yng ee
 —e iy ow
 KA KY Keo ue
(or) moo uy te? aan  ws mo eal
mS oe, nt ys
  ABO CRB aS
* OR ww Os a) mews
fx] GOF  |, Lo .
ey B&B $e se of  
Mm  
S  eo) hs  CH
Osa .
Ly wy oy a) cx  Mt bee dogs Le ae} 
fe SSoc  
—
 ma Be SS “A ke a,
Gg wvope  were Bere re ees
  ah AN AEINN ss s
Q Mm mm  
Z CF) NMNNANMTM MD me INH Bmw AKA BOM
 BPD POSES SST PRED eras oe
 GRRE SoO CRIevsvs vote CNH+zrOMm Grn oKtt
”) ane SSEus ES man nnecs SEREIS CNRS sEes
 vwe pee acer ne or or Em oro ornE aE
eH et tele gd el oon on rk Se oi alan] mame aba apap aE
) EG aoeazEsetsan Rese MN
O ae Mn to TO
a  ft ft cces
* sstte FE SE PEELE esecacne
MN wu Yvotk  Ss agasacaaet 
QD aA  Se   Petess
 HAAN “A AAA BAG
ao]
n
O  sse  eesses ge ess
Mm gFsasso Segsscss Sttsses GlSseaTsS
fz, Ee RN xNBWOOrOMN NANCE CPSC Mrm AO .
a
o |*
neO  co 
[x] Es S
iz;  ia S, S.
som os ous ERR mo Rm aa  on
A oh re rm ya Ne}
‘ —
fz] aA
AU eu wh Ye Do [S 
Yo EP 
Ws nona Ba ant aa
yaa ot et me
 oe om .
Yssa CE r+ ars
eoYOn yg FS aY rv) co Oo
- QA  Nn ie ZL
N  ise) at od St Ss 
F VPDa BS ax aon
NOt et tes —e aa) ——
 Fe ef -sae  lor eis  cn
"aoom na nN oe}
s e
 do WWeos [
 oy Bs  
Zhan SG wo a

Sd
  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE OF INVENTORIES USED IN CLOSING
BOOKS, NOVEMBER .

Gas coal ...........        
Gas steam coal ................  

Gas enrichers .............     
Gas purifying material ..............+-  
Gas works tools ....................  
Coke .....             
Tar wo.        eses  
AMMONIA  ... Le   
Distribution tools ...............  
Laboratory  ... ..  ...  ees  
Electric coal ................  
Oil and waste .........     
Station tools ......................  
Electrodes ........     
Incandescent lamps ................  
Globes ...  ...  ee    
Distribution tools .............. 
Office furniture and fixtures ........  
Automobiles, horses and wagons......  
Prepaid imsurance .................  
Total inventories ............. —————— 

|

REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  
SCHEDULE OF DEPRECIATION, NOVEMBER .
Gas real estate ...........        ces 
Gas machinery and manufacturing appliances ...  
GaS MAINS ......    eces  
Gas meters .........    cere   cetcs  
Electric real estate ............... ee-e-.  
Electric steam plant ................... -----  
Electric plant ...............         
Electric pole lines ................... -----  
Electric underground lines ....................  
Electric are lights .................  ++-  
Electric transformers ...................-.-.--  
Electric meters ...........        
Electric water plant ............. cc     

Total ...  ...   cc         ce ess 

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.
| Assets Increase Decrease
Cash in extension fund,  
Cash in depreciation fund,  
Cash in bond payment fund,   |
Cash in interest payment 
fund,  
Accounts receivable, gas,  
Accounts receivable, electric,  . 
Accounts receivable, sundries,  . 
Accounts receivable, gas appliances,  
Inventories,  . 
Plant Accounts.
Gas, real estate,  . 
Machinery and manufacturing appliances,  . 
Gas mains,  . 
Gas meters,  . 
Electric, real estate  . 
Electric, steam plant,  . 
Electric, water plant,  
Electric, electric plant,  . 
Electric lines (overhead),  
Flectric lines (underground),  . 
Electric transformers,  .  \
Electric meters,  . 
Electric street arcs,  
Electric, street incandescents,  
$    
Increase in Assets, 

| REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT  .
, Liabilities.
Operation fund overdrawn, 
Loan account, City of Holyoke,  . 
Prepaid gas consumers,   
Bonds outstanding, . 
Accounts payable,  . 
$    
Increase in Liabilities, 
Increase in Assets, 
Increase in Liabilities,  
Net Gain, 

  REPORT OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
SPRINGFIELD, Mass., January .
Mr. John J. Kirkpatrick, Manager,
Gas and Electric Department, 
Holyoke, Mass
Dear Sir:

I have completed the audit of the accounts of the Holyoke Gas and Electric Department for the year ended November verified the cash balance, balance of the general ledger, sundries ledger, vouchers for payment, the footings, the pay rolls, and depreciation account.

The balance sheet and profit and loss statements are accurately prepared from the accounts as shown by the books
of the Department, based on inventories prepared by the
heads of the departments, and to the best of my knowledge
and belief are correct financial statements of the Department.

Respectfully submitted,
(Signed) FRANK M. LIVINGSTONE.
Associated with

WaLtTerR W. Eaton Co., INC.,

Certified Public Accountants.

ANNUAL REPORT

| OF
HOLYOKE PLAYGROUND
COMMISSION
 
BOARD OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS

Archibald A. Brooks, Chairman ........ Term expires  
Mary E. Hussey, Secretary ............ Term expires  
Nathan P. Avery .................+...- Termexpires  |
David Brodinsky ...... ............... Term expires  
Ovila Beauchamp ..................... Term expires  
Mrs. Mary C. Finn .................... Term expires  
William J. Howes .................... Term expires  
Dr. John W. Seolley .................. Term expires  
Mrs. William G. Dwight ............... Term expires  

Che Ghildren’s Berlaration
Che Hnanimons Berlaration of the Children of the
Anited States

When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for us to break the bonds which have bound us to

our mothers’ apron strings, and to stand up for ourselves

according to the laws of nature, decent respect for the

requirements of childhood causes us to declare our inalienable rights to

Life —That if we are all created equal, whether rich or

poor, we all ought to have the same chance to get fresh

air, sunshine, pure food and pure water.

Liberty —That we ought to be allowed te run and play

as long as we like, while we are growing as fast as we

ean, and until we become strong and robust.

The Pursuit of Bappiness—That we are entitled to

some place where we ean follow our pursuit of happi; ness and where we can play without trespassing on anybody’s grounds; where nobody can complain that we

make too much noise, and where we sha’n’t break anything our fathers will have to pay somebody for.

We hold the above truths to be self-evident, and
therefore, we, the children of the United Statcs, appeal
to the taxpayers of each village, town and city to grant
us spot in each community to be known as the Chuildren’s Playgrounds. That we may there do those acts
and things which we should by right do. And for the
support of this declaration with firm reliance on the
protection of our homes, we pledge our long and healthy .
lives when we shall be grown to the service of other
children.

Signed, Sealed and
Delivered to the
Grownups by
The Children of the United States.
Written for the children by Teresa Hunt Wolcott..

To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, City
of Holyoke: |

GENTLEMEN: perusal of the extended report of Supervisor of Playgrounds, P. H. Kelly (herewith attached),
will convince the most skeptical of the value and imereasing
popularity of our Municipal Playgrounds. It is very evident
from the interest manifested, that this phase of municipal
activity has come to stay and should consequently be considered as business as well as an Educational Institution,
and one that can grow and prosper only in so far as it  s
built on the solid foundation of efficiency. To realize the
maximum results, the property involved must be improved,
maintained and operated in the interests of the people, so as
to secure the greatest good for the greatest number. There
ean be no standing still, it must be either forward or backward, and for Holyoke the motto must always be ‘‘Forward.”’

With this end in view your commission believe that at |
least one ground (preferably Hampden Street), should be so
improved not only to obtain the greatest efficiency in operation, but to make the grounds attractive and inviting, valuable asset to the neighborhood, place that will attract the
attention of the stranger passing through our city, and impress him with the fact that Holyoke is not only hustling,
but an up-to-date progressive and beautiful city and desirable place to live. This can be done, we believe, without any
extravagant outlay and your commission respectfully ask that
a sufficient addition to the annual appropriation be granted
for this purpose. |

At the time of wrifing the skating season is in full swing,

this fine sport being more popular than ever.

Through the kindness of the Chemical Paper Company,
Newton pond will be available for this purpose for an indefinite period. The rink at the rear of the Metcalf School in
Elmwood has been greatly extended and now presents fine

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS

safe surface for the children of this district. Owing to this
fact and because of the number of snow storms the expense
will be somewhat larger in this department and should be provided for accordingly.

The wider use of our school plant in connection with
play activities, which through the hearty co-operation of our
School Board, was afforded, was of great value and was
thoroughly appreciated, and which we hope will be continued.

We endorse the recommendation of Supervisor Kelly,
and trust this will receive your earnest consideration.

Respectfully submitted,
ARCHIBALD A. BROOKS,
Chairman.
: e

‘‘The universal impulse to play is divinely ordered
thing. If God gives the instinct, man aught to provide the
playground.’’—Jostah Strong.

, ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of the Holyoke Playgrounds
| FOR  
To the Honorable Board of Playground Commussioners of the
City of Holyoke, Massachusetts:

I have the honor to present to you my fourth report as
Supervisor of the Holyoke Playgrounds for the season of
 .

PROGRESS

The Playground season of has shown marked advancement in several important respects, chiefly among them
being the addition of five new play centers, the Elm Street,
Park Street, Springdale, Highlands Schools and Highland
Park Centers. |

The second notable advance was the establishing of morning, afternoon, and evening supervised play on four of our
larger playgrounds, and morning and afternoon sessions on
six school centers. From the attendance which will be found
on another page it proves conclusively that this was move
in the right direction and should be continued.

SUPERVISION

The demand for increased play facilities for children
has reached great proportions in the knowledge of organized
games and the general effect of Supervised Play. An essential factor in connection with the playgrounds provided in
the administration of public recreation is the necessity of

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
leadership at all times by trained directors. Without it the
. playground will fail to compete with the excitement of the
streets, nor realize its possibilities as factor in civic and
moral training. The success of the playground leaders indicated by the large number of children drawn to them is striking and conclusive that it is the personality of the play leaders which demonstrates success as much as expensive apparatus. The general Supervisor feels that under the efficient
guidance of the various departmental supervisors the teachers themselves have made steady advancement in learning the
essentials of our play problems and are on whole capable
staff of playground workers.
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR
GIRLS
This department was broadened the past summer by the
| addition of simple and suitable athletics. Girls in general
are much more difficult to reach than boys. The play instinct is not as active in girls, and what there is is smothered
more or less by the cares of home and smaller children which
are forced upon them. This results in prematurely shorten“ing the period of girlhood with consequent loss of health,
strength and poise. What is needed is longer play period
in order that the girls may have the opportunity for normal
development of body and mind. To this end each year we
seek to enrich the program so that our girls may feel more
keenly the attraction of the playgrounds. ,
RAFFIA AND SHOE-STRING BAGS AND BASKETS
This department grows more popular each year. More .
children were enrolled in the classes than during the preceding year. With the corresponding increase of interest a
greater amount of material was used. more instructive
occupation cannot be found for children. It is not only fascinating in itself, but develops patience, judgment, dexterity

| REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
and skill and embodies the satisfaction of making beautiful
and useful article and arouses the inventive faculties in the
child. The articles made were of practical value to the child
and for the decoration of the home.

FOLK DANCING
Showed marked advancement over former years. At the
commencement of the playground season Miss Abbie J. Wilhams was placed in charge of this department and visited
Williams was placed in charge of this department and visited each playground twice week, and during the season period of one hour each day was devoted to Folk Dancing.
Dancing is favorite and healthful exercise for girls of all
ages. Through the folk dances we have many opportunities —
to educate the social and moral side of the child and direct
the formation of right habits and high ideals of conduct. The
types of dancing most desired for exercise and recreation are
those that have historical value, such as many of the European
and old American dances.
!

|
|
  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
DANCES AND GAMES USED ON THE HOLYOKE
PLAYGROUNDS
DANCES
Scotch Lassie Rustic Reel
May Pole Dance Children’s Polka
Shoemakers’ Dance Irish Washerwomen
Hoop Drill Weavers’ Dance
Ace of Diamonds La Papillion (Butterfly)
Scotch Reel Gust of Skoal
Chinese Dance Klapp Dance
SINGING GAMES
I See You Greeting and Meeting
Merry Go Round Howdy Do, My Partner
Summer Reign Swing Song
Grandmothers’ Dance In Summer
Dance, Dear Partner Mine One By One
Jolly Is the Miller Dance Little Partner
TaGa GAMES
Last Couple Out Prisoners’ Base
Cat and Mouse Rabbits’ Nest
Bull in the Ring The Beater Goes Round
Three Deep Line Interference.
Snatch the Handkerchief Double Tag ;
Live Tag Japanese Tag
Ham, Ham, Chicken and Bacon Flank Tag .
Stoop Tag
BaLL GAMES
Baseball Center Ball
Playground Ball Peg Driving
Cirele Ball Keep the Ball

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
Corner Ball Hand Baseball
Captain Ball Teacher
Crowd Ball Volley Ball
Name Ball Relay Ball
Dodge Ball Leather Ball
Clock Ball Speed
Pass Ball Catch Ball
Straddle Ball Center Base
End Ball
GAMES FOR SMALLER CHILDREN |
Hill Dill Peggy in the Ring
London Bridge Pussy in the Corner
Go Round and Round the The Mulberry Bush
Valley
Oats, Peas, Beans and Bar- Bingo
ley Grows
The Farmer in the Sho-Di- Pigeon
Do
We Are Playing Together Bluebird
Did You Ever See Lassie Ring Roses
Hickory Dickory Dock Sally Waters
The Muffin Man Farmer in the Dell
Soldier Bov Fox and Chieken
Cat and Mouse War
SEWING
Under the supervision of Mrs. Mary F. Kostenbader the
classes have made wonderful progress the past season. Materials were generously supplied by the commission at very
small cost per child. The materials selected were those of
pleasing color for the eve, good texture making the work easy
to handle. This course in sewing on our playgrounds has
teen found practical and satisfactory. The particular gar|
|
  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
ments chosen in the course progress from the simpler to the
more complex processes of construction. From an economic
point of view, sewing should be necessity in every playground for the older girls, especially to teach her that all
day cannot be spent in play, but that work and play go hand
in hand. This work on the playgrounds is well established
and the girls look forward with pleasure to the sewing period.
SEWING COURSE
 Dust Caps. Dolls’ Caps:
 Aprons.
Kitchen,
White,
Tea.
 Underwear.
Corset Covers, |
Underwaists,
Skirts. |
,  Utility Bags.
Laundry,
| Stockings,
Sewing, |
Shirt Waists.
 Combing Sack. |
  Patching and Darning. |
 Shirt Waists.
 Guimpes. ,
.  Smocks. |
 Dress. :
 Embroidery.
Simple Stiteh,
Hemming Table Linen, |
Hemstitch. \
|

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
STORY TELLING

Story telling on the playgrounds ranks with any other occupation in the power of producing good results. It is least
restricted and the possibilities in story telling for guiding
the child’s mind to the best of everything in the world are
limitless. child who has been trained to appreciate good
literature by means of story telling will develop the power
of judging right from wrong, as well as to love the best in
literature, one of the greatest gifts human being can possess. At the beginning of the season arrangements were made
at the Public Library for books to be used on our playgrounds. Through the courtesy of Librarian F. G. Willcox
a list of twenty-five selected story books were arranged in
separate cases and placed on each playground. This was
much appreciated by the children and the books were in great
demand.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR BOYS

The earnest and enthusiastic efforts of the men instructors with the boys showed marked advancement over former
years. number of new activities were introduced during
the past season and great interest was manifested in the Inter
Playground Tournaments held about the middle of the season. The greatest interest was shown in our American game
of baseball with eighteen baseball teams, three teams on each
playground. Three leagues were formed: the Midgets, Junior and Senior Leagues. schedule of one hundred and
fifty games were played. The Midgets and Junior teams 
played their games mornings. The Senior games were played
afternoons. The Hampden Street teams won the pen- ,
nants in the Midget and Junior Leagues and the Elmwood
team carried off the honors in the Senior League in very
close race.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
MANUAL TRAINING
This department was under the supervision of Miss Helen
C. Moriarty who deserves great credit for the work accomplished and the advancement shown in this department.
Manual training which included basketry of all kinds,
weaving in different forms, knot tying and chair caning is
presented under this heading. Handwork gives the child a
wonderful opportunity to discover, reproduce and create. It
is interesting and at the same time develops patience, judgment, dexterity and skill. In selecting the work that is suitable for the playgrounds, many things must be considered,—
limited time, size of material, necessary tools and expense.
Upon investigating different materials we found that reed,
raphia and cane offer many advantages over others, among
which are their lightness, cleanliness and durability. This
season notable advances were made in reed baskets, and the
designing of sewed baskets; also weaving of hats and mats.
The girls on each playground were divided into three groups:
the small, the middle sized, and the large ones. The elementary work for the small children consisted of :
I. Winding Raphia.
a. Picture frames.
b. Napkin rings. |
e. Whisk-broom holders.
Il. Braided Raphia.
a. Dolls’ hats.
b. Mats. |
ec: Small baskets. |
Ill. Knotted Raphia. |
a. Twine bags. |
b. Bottles covered.
@. Coat hangers. |
IV. Weaving with Raphia.
a. Dolls’ caps. |
!
|
(

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  

The weaving of the dolls’ caps was very popular with the
children. The caps were made with two or more colors, and
would fit any head. The middle-sized girls made:

I. Woven work, using only Raphia.
a. Mats with two or more colors.

b. Caps to fit the child’s head.

II. Knotted Raphia Work.

a. Opera bags lined with silk.
b. Twine-bag holders.

III. Shoe-String Work.
a. Bags lined with silk.
b. Belts.
e. Fobs.

IV. Sewed Work, Using Reed and Raphia.
a. Card receivers.
b. Handkerchief baskets.
e. Sandwich trays.
d. Collar and cuff button baskets.
e. Work baskets with complete outfit for sewing.

The designs in these baskets were never more beautiful,
and the workmanship could not be excelled. The mats which
were made all sizes could be used for luncheon sets and were
admired greatly. The shoelace bags were new this year and
were very popular.

The large girls’ work consisted mostly of reed basketry.
The course was as follows:

I. Woven Reed Work. ,
a. Small handkerchief baskets.
b. Bon-bon baskets.
e. Jardinieres.
d. Large veranda vases with handles.
e. Small rose bowls.
f. Stocking baskets.
g. Cheese and cracker trays.

\
  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS !
II. Knotted Raphia Work.
a. Opera bags, using the difficult mesh knots
and Salamon knots.
Ill. Wooden-Base Baskets.
a. Pen and pencil baskets.
b. Small jardinieres.
e. Waste baskets.

The weaving consisted of single, double pairing, triple
Weaving and rope twist. The instructors colored the reed,
and colored weavers were used to bring out: the beauties of
the difficult weaves.

, The boys made large waste baskets with wooden bases.
These were made with three or four different weaves and all
kinds of shapes were developed. The waste basket pleased
all the boys because of its usefulness and decorative qualities.
Looms were provided for the boys to make neckties. The ties
were woven with two or more colors of silkatine. The boys
never seemed to tire of making watch fobs out of shoelaces.
The chair caning is considered boys’ occupation, although a
girl is never refused the privilege of caning should she wish
to do it. Over four hundred chairs were caned on our playgrounds. Some boys did ten chairs, receiving from fifty cents
to dollar and half chair. One boy reported that he
made six dollars in one week caning. The cane is free to the
boy with no limit to the number of chairs he canes. Each
chair is eaned at the school center and inspected by the supervisor before it is delivered to the owner. One boy told me
that lady gave him two dollars for gift because she was so
well pleased with his work. It was interesting to see little
bovs leaving the playgrounds with chairs on their backs, delivering them perhaps three quarters of mile. At some of
the large centers as many as forty boys were working on
chairs at one time. On account of the war raphia and reed |
were very expensive, sO many were refused the privilege of
making baskets, as the number of making baskets had to be
limited. On each ground about twenty girls made sewed basREPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
kets, twelve made one of each kind of reed baskets, twelve
made bags of all kinds, fifteen made waste baskets, and others
made different woven articles.

Next year we hope to have more reed basketry taught
and also more weaving. Bead making will be new oecupation and large trays will be made. ,

This season everybody seemed pleased with the results.
In three large store windows the work was displayed. Nearly
every article made with the hands could be found there. One
evening two boys were working in store window, one making waste basket and another caning ehair. Three girls
In another window were working on baskets and weaving.
The display certainly proved to the pubhe the fact that hard
work made an ideal occupation for children during the playground season.

ATTENDANCE

This deem the most gratifying part of my report, as the
attendance on the playgrounds is voluntary, and it serves consequently as an excellent index to the feeling of the children in
regards to the playground. The attendance this vear was
greatly in excess of last season and when the number of rainy
davs durmg the months of July and August are considered
it speaks volumes. The attendance was taken twice daily at
  a. m. and p. m. The total number was divided by two to
find the attendance each day.

ATTENDANCE FOR EIGHT WEEKS |

Days Evenings
Elmwood  ...  c     
Whiting School ................-. -.  
Hampden Street ...............  
Maple Street  ...  ...      
Morgan School ...............  
West Street ..........  ...      
Elm Street School ....................  
, Highland School .....................  

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
Park Street School ....................  
Springdale School .....................  
Highland Park .......................  
Total .....  ...          
Evenings ..........       ,
Grand Total .....................  
| BATHS |
Baths at the Whiting School were under the direct
charge of Mrs. Winifred Knightly and Miss Helen Donohue,
who deserves great praise for the manner in which they administered .heir duties. |
Number of Baths Given Girls ................  
Number of Baths Given Boys ................  
Total ....           
SKATING RINKS ,
Skating rinks were maintained during the winter months
at Newton’s Pond, Joseph Metcalf School, Highlands School,
Hampden Street, Maple Street, and West Street. They were |
used by adults as well as the children, especially Newton’s |
Pond with its large area afforded great. pleasure to thousands ,
of the lovers of skating.
ATTENDANCE—SEVEN WEEKS
DECEMBER AND JANUARY
Newton's Pond .........   )  
Joseph Metealf School .....................  
Highlands School .................  
Hampden Street oo...  ...    ee§— ,
Maple Street ......  ...       es |
West Street co.cc. ee     !
—§—  

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
SPECIAL EVENTS
The special events which occurred during the past season are all worthy of record. Tuesday, August  a
Mothers’ day was held on the Highlands, Springdale, Maple,
Hampden and West Streets playgrounds. These grounds
were visited by picked teams from the Elm, Park, Morgan,
Elmwood and Chestnut Street playgrounds. program of
special athletic events was held. The attendance at cach
place was large considering the threatening rain, showers
, falling during the afternoon. The interest displayed not only
by the children but by the parents, especially the mothers
showed that they feel the playgrounds are of vital importance
in the lives of their growing children. Prizes were given the
winners in each event, which consisted of ribbon badge
bearing the inscription ‘‘Mothers’ Day,’’ Holyoke Playgrounds, and to the grounds scoring the greater number of
. points were awarded silk American flag. This was proudly
carried by the winners about the field after the events were
over.
DISPLAY .
The various articles made bythe children on the different
playgrounds was placed on display Wednesday and Thursday, August and in the show windows of A. T. Gallup,
Steiger Company, and McAuslan Wakelin High Street
stores. They were classified under three departments, the A.
T. Gallup contained the boys’ department; Steiger Company’s
window the girls’ department, and McAuslan Wakelin
Company’s window the sewing department. This display was
beautiful and  eceived many expressions of appreciation from
those who saw it.
CLOSING EXERCISES
The closing exercises were held Friday, August  The
various grounds were visited by the Playground Commissioners accompanied by members of the Board of Aldermen,
School Board, Board of Public Works, Superintendent of

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS |
|
Schools Franeis MeSherry and members of the press. Each
playground had prepared program of games and dances.
The special events on each ground was the baby carriage parade. This proved very satisfactory, considering the short
notice given the elildren of the event. Each playground had
a number of babies and baby carriages in line. Some of the
ehildren had their dolls in doll earriages. The decorations !
were very odd and of great variety. The mothers showed |
great interest in this part of the program. This was mani- |
 fested by the large attendance of mothers on each playground.
PUBLIC APPRECIATION
Does the public appreciate what the Playground Commissioners and the Holvoke playgrounds have done for them ?
The following figures show the number of permits issued and
an estimate attendance on the various playgrounds from October to October Football: Thirty-seven
permits were issued for football, an average of people
attended each game, an estimate of  Baseball:
Fighty-four permits were issued. Average attendance each
game  Estimate attendance  Sunday baseball
plaved by the City League forty-five games were played.
Three games each Sunday. An average of at
each game. Estimate’ attendanee,  Playgrounds
attendanee,  Skating,  Fourth of July !
eelebration,  The regulations governing the use
of playgrounds specify that the playgrounds may be used
for play purposes without permit until others who possess
permits lay claim to them, so that the accommodations have
been used even more extensively than the figures would indicate. .
| I
“Plavgrounds are kind of ‘insurance policy,’ they
lessen juvenile erime, prevent aceidents, protect children
against. tuberculosis. They cost less than hospitals.’
. \
|

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS  
RECOMMENDATIONS

The Supervisor has the following recommendations to
make for the new year.

The necessity of fencing our playgrounds is again called
to your attention. The safety and proper discipline of the
children as well as the proper protection of apparatus, etc.,
demands such enclosure. would suggest that special efforts
be made the coming year to fence the Hampden Street playgrounds. If this could be accomplished and hand ball, giant
strides and traveling rings added, also platform where evening daneing for adults could be conducted during the suinmer evenings, this would be an ideal playground.

 EQUIPMENT
| Very little new equipment has been added the past three
years, although with good play leadership it is possible to
earry on play activities without extensive equipment, yet it
is highly desirable that few more good pieces may be added
| to all our playgrounds, such as seesaws, swings, giant strides,
volley ball outfits and goals for basketball.
SWIMMING
Lack of swimming pools retard the aquatic end of the
playgrounds considerably. would especially recommend that
immediate attention be given this branch and steps be taken
to take over the public bath houses now conducted by the
Board of Public Works.
TENNIS

During the past season have had many requests for
tennis courts. This is form of recreation that must be provided for eventually. would recommend if the Commission
ean see its way clear that some property be leased and tennis
courts installed. This can be maintained at very small cost.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS |
The Supervisor feels that he would have neglected rare
privilege if he failed to acknowledge at this time his sincere
appreciation of the help he has received from the Playground
Commission. He would pay tribute to their magnificent
efforts in  The high quality of public service that each
of the Commisisoners has rendered ensured success from the
start. The Supervisor could not close this report without !
stating his appreciation of Mr. Frank O’Connell, our playground superintendent, for his ever ready and willing as- |
sistance; also to the School Board for the use of the school
buildings, and the press. The Transcript, Telegram, Repub- |
lican and Union were most generous in giving space and news
of our city’s playgrounds.
Respectfully submitted,
P. H. KELLY,
Supervisor. :

Season  Municipal Playground, Holyoke, Mass. |

‘“The present is the time to plan for the future. Soon
there will be no open spaces. Land will be too valuable. It
pays to invest in the lives of our children.’’

FINANCIAL REPORT
PLAYGROUND DEPARTMENT,  
Maintenance New Construction
Material and Material and
Supplies Payroll Total Supplies Total
Grounds
Chestnut St., Whiting
School:

Instructors ...........  

Care of grounds.......  

Materials and supplies.. 

Elmwood:

Instructors .........  

Materials and supplies...  

Care of grounds. .....  

Rent of Jland...........  

Hampden Street:

Instructors ............ :

Materials and supplies...  

Care of grounds.......  

Wading pool ..........  

Maple St.

Instructors ............  

Materials and supplies..  
Care of grounds.......  

Morgan School:

Instructors ............  

Materials and supplies...  

Care of grounds.......  

West Street:

Instructors ............  

Materials and supplies...  

Care of grounds.......  

Wading pool...........  

Prospect Field:

Materials and supplies.  

Care of grounds........  

Rent of land...........  

| REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS
Maintenance New i
M: New Construction
Material and Material and |
Supplies Payroll Total Supplies Total ;
Elm St. School: |
Instructors ............ |
Materials and supplies.. :
Highland School:
Instructors ............  
Care of grounds.......  
Materials and supplies...  
Park St. School: |
Instructors ............  
Materials and supplies...  
Springdale School:
Instructors ............  
Materials and supplies...  
Skating Rinks:
Hampden Street ......  
Highland School ......  
Joseph Metcalf School,  
. Maple Street ..........  
Newton’s Pond ........ 
West Street ...........  
General Administration: |
Supplies and materials...  
Superintendent ........  
Supervisor ............  
Clerk services .........  
|   
SUMMARY.
ADpropriation co... cc    cc cc  nce   c 
Total Maintenance ....... cc    ce wee   
Total New Construction .......... eces  
Total Expenditure ..........          
Transferred to General Receipts...........c cc   
$  

BOARD OF HEALTH,  .
Frank A. Woods, M. D., Chairman.
William J. Powers, M. D., Secretary.
John J. Burke.
CLERK.
Elizabeth G. Shea.
AGENT AND HEALTH OFFICER. |
J. Sidney Wright. ,
SANITARY INSPECTORS.
John S. O’Neill, Deceased.
. Daniel J. Mahoney. |
Edward J. Teahan.
. INSPECTOR OF MILK AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett, Ph. G.
Edward O’Connell, Assistant.
PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
Frank L. Avery.
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS AND PROVISIONS.
John M. Carlon, Deceased.
Thomas J. Shinkwin, M. D. V.
BACTERIOLOGIST.
J. Joseph Carroll, M. D.
SOCIAL WORKER.
Anna I. Burke.
TUBERCULOSIS SANATORIUM
Margaret G. Healy.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF HEALTH
To His Honor, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holvoke, Mass. :

GENTLEMEN: The thirty-fifth annual statement of all
. matters pertaining to the Board of Health for the year ending November is hereby submitted for your consideration.

ORGANIZATION. ;

The members of the Board of Health met for organization the first Monday of February,  and elected the following officers: J. Sidney Wright, Chairman; William J.
Powers, M. D., Secretary. April  J. Sidney Wright resigned as member of the Board and John J. Burke was appointed. Frank A. Woods, M. D., was elected Chairman.

Appended are the-reports of the Health Officer, Inspector of Plumbing, Inspector of Milk, Inspector of Meat and
Slaughtering, Bacteriologist and Sanatorium for Tubereulosis.

Regular weekly meetings of the Board have been held
and special meetings as oceasion required during the year.

GENERAL HEALTH.

It has been well said that with well-organized Health
Department community may have as much health as it is
willing to pay for.

A low death rate is one of the best indications of the
general health conditions of the community. During the past
year our death rate is slightly higher than that of  .
This is due in part at least to the fact that number of out- !
of-town patients are brought to our local hospitals, many
have died within short time after admission. To charge

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH 
these deaths to city and in consequence increase their death
rate has always appeared unfair. Were they not so charged
our death rate would have been much lower.

Life and happiness depend wholly upon good health.
This being purchasable, the responsibility of its purchase and
the health of community is placed squarely upon the snoulders of those charged with making the appropriation for
health work. No attempt should be made to compute in dollars and cents the value of human life.

In conelusion the Board of Health wishes at this time
to express its appreciation for the convenient rooms which
we now occupy in the City Hall Annex, and thank the Honorable Mayor and Board of Aldermen for all assistanee and
courtesies extended during the year, and to the heads of departments and all other employees the Board is indebted
for their efficient efforts in the service that the health and
comfort of the community might be safeguarded.

Respectfully submitted,
FRANK A. WOODS, MI. D.,
WILLIAM J. POWERS, M. D.,
PATRICK E. HURLEY, M. D.,
. Board of Health.

| |

Report of the Health Officer

: GENTLEMEN: respectfully submit the following de- :

tailed report of the Board carried on under the direction of ,
its Health Officer for the year ending November .

Besides the routine work of the office which has been |
carried on as usual, the reports of the Plumbing, Milk, Sanitary and Inspectors of Markets and Provisions are annexed.

The department has been exdingly fortunate in having subordinate employees who were loyal and who yave
willing and enthusiastic service at all times. Without this
the Health Department could not have become what it is today, the most active and vigorous city department.

As in the past much time and attention has been given |
to the sanitary arrangements and methods in the making
and exposure for sale of all foodstuffs. There is room, how- |
ever, for improvement in this respect.

DISINFECTION.

Disinfection is done after diphtheria, scarlet fever, smallpox and tuberculosis cases. The question of its efficiency or
utility has been considered, but it may be continued for no
other reason than because it  easier to convince the householder of the necessity for general cleaning of woodwork,
floor and furniture if fumigation is done by the Health Department. |
Number of mattresses destroyed ................. ...  
Number of dead animals removed ....................  

» Number of bakeries inspected ................... ...  
Number of barber shops inspected ...................  
Number of cases posted ..........     ee  
Number of rooms fumigated after diphtheria and scarlet
fever wc        eseceser  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  

' Number of rooms fumigated after cancer .............  
Number of rooms fumigated after tuberculosis, deaths

| and removals ............        ces  

Number of school permits issued .................... 

Number of school rooms fumigated ...................  

I earnestly recommend that immediate steps should be
taken to provide adequate hospital accommodations for scarlet fever and diphtheria on the Cherry street property owned
by the city, now, when there is plenty of room in an excellent
location and where all contagious diseases under the Board
of Health by law could be concentrated.

Increase in the size of the Tuberculosis Hospital is absolutely necessary in the immediate future. In my opinion
there should be house erected for the nurses and help. If
this was done, it would about double the present capacity for
patients. As it is now and has been for some time overerowded with large number on the waiting list which we
cannot accommodate.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE A.
Still Death
Deaths Births Total Rate
  ......  .)  ... ce...  .)  
TS .. ee...   )  ot  oo...  .  
SOT wo.       
US  wwe      
L  oo...      ............... ..  
WO  wo... wee  .) Loe.     ...................  
W  wo...     wo... cc.        ..  ...     )  BTA  
W  wo...         ...................  
L  Le...     
DIO ...................  
W  wo...  .)  
W  oo... ee... 
W  wwe...  
W  woo...  ... 
eo IDLO wo.  .  .))  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
DEATHS BY SEX AND AGE FROM JANUARY TO
DECEMBER .
Males Females Total
Under day .................. to days ................  to days .................... days to week ...............  )
  to weeks ............... ...  to weeks .................. weeks to month ............. to months ................... to months........,......... to months .................. to months .................. to months ..................  
L year ....            
ZVCATS wo.           )
  years wo... cc        )  
D  to  yearS ..........       to years .................. to years .................. to years ................. to years .................. to vears ..................  to years ..............--. to years ................. to years ................. to years .................  
dD) to years ............-.... ae)
  to years .................. to years ................. to years ................. to years ................. to years ................. to years ................. to years ..................  to years  ...    ne  
Total ............. ..-  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE G.

Showing the deaths in each ward in the city and in the

various institutions during the various months.

seg hE pee   gk
A ze

Ward  .......  
Ward  .......  
Ward  ....... 
Ward  .......  
Ward  .......  
Ward  .......  
Ward  .......  
City Hosp. ....  
Prov. Hosp. ...  
Brightside .....  
City Farm.....  
Sanatorium ... ..  
Mt. Marie ..... .. J... ..  ...  ...  .... 
‘Harkins Home..  ...  ... ..  ... eee  
B’ven-Kelly H.,  ...... .. ..  
Mt. St. Vineent, .. .. .. ..  ... we we we  
H. Aged P’ple, ..........  ........  
Totals ....  
Non-residents ..  
Still-births .... 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
TABLE H.
Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city )
and in the various institutions.
Ward  ...   ees  
Ward Lo. ec      
Ward on. cc   ete    
Ward oo. cc e       s LOO .
Ward oo.       eet ete   ,
— Ward oo.   ete   ene   OF
Ward oo.   ec     tee  secec  
: Total .. oc.   ec tect     OOZ
Holyoke City Hospital ...............        
Providence Hospital ..............      es  
Brightside ......  ...     ce    ec     es  
City Farm  ...  ... cc       et ence  BF
Samatorlum ....  ...    te           D
Mt. Marie ..........       eet  et   
Harkins Home .............. cc     cc seess  
Beaven-Kelly Home .................ee    ss  
Mt. St. Vincent .....  ... ee  ee  OL
Home for Aged People ..............    OOF
 
Total number occurring in wards and institutions......  
Non-residentS ........     cc  ececseses  ]
, |

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE J.
Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during
the year  .
Holyoke  ...  ... cence ees  
Massachusetts ......    ee tec e    
Other states ....  ...         ec   OF
  Treland ... ce   ce  ec  
Canada  ...  ...        esse ee  
England ...........     t   nes  
Germany  ...  ec       teenes ot
Seotland  ...           IO
Russia .. ce. ecce     eet eter se  
AUStVIA    ce cere    re IY
France wo...      ete  ee  
GYeCCO Lo     tent    
Nova Scotia ...  ...   ccce        
Sweden .o.  ...        t teens eetaees  
Australia ..  ...    ec    eens  
Unknown  ... cc   ete   een  
Total oo...         tense tee  s |

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
TABLE K.

Showing the interment of those dying in the city and
those brought here for burial during (still-births included).
Calvary oo...       t cere evese  
Elmwood ....... cc  ce t   
Forestdale .......  ... ce        ec  LID
St. Jerome ...... cc          s  
South Hladley Falls ............................... ddl
West Holyoke ............ cc     aes  
Smiths Ferry  ... ...  cc   ce        
Out of town (otherwise) .........................  
Local burialS ..........  ec       es 
Brought to Holyoke for burial .....................  
Sent from Holyoke for burial ...................... .

Total number of burial permits issued ..........  

TABLE L.

Showing contagious diseases as reported by months.

So to»   es  

a  ££ ck Bz FF

Diphtheria ..  
Searlet Fev..  
Measles .....  
W. Cough... ..  .. 
Chicken Pox,  ..  ...  
Typ. Fever..  .... .. .. 
Mem. Croup, ..  .... .. ......  we ee)  
Tuberculosis.  
Mumps.....  ........  
Oph. Neon... ..  .. 
Sep. Throat, ..  ........  
Totals ..  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE M. :
Showing contagious diseases by wards.

  Totat
Diphtheria .............  
‘Searlet Fever ..........  
Measles ................ 
Whooping Cough.......  ...  
Chicken Pox ........... 
Typhoid Fever......... .. .. 
Memb. Croup .......... .. .. do... ..  
Tuberculosis ...........  
Oph. Neonatorum....... ..  
| Mumps .........:...... .. IT  
Septic Throat ......... ..  ...  
Totals .............  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  

I would respectfully call your attention to the following

' aets of  Chapter  .
SANITARY STATIONS.

To provide for the construction of Sanitary Stations in
cities and in certain towns.

SECTION  In every city and in all towns having population of over ten thousand inhabitants, there shall be provided in some convenient place or places, at or near the business center of the city or town, one or more sanitary stations
with separate water closets for the use of both sexes, which
sanitary stations shall be established and maintained by the
city or town in which they are located. The number and the
location of said sanitary stations shall be determined for
every city, and for every such town, by the local Board of
Health, provided, however, that if in the opinion of the Board
of Health of any city or town such sanitary stations are not
necessary in that city or town such city or town shall not be
required to provide the same.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the Board of
Health for the year ending November :
Board of Health—
‘ Appropriation ..............     ss 
Additional appropriation .................  
$ 
Salaries ..  ...           
Bills—
. General expenses ............. 
Contagious diseases .............  -  
Tubereulosis, general .....................  
Tuberculosis, dispensary, months .........  
Milk department ........      
‘ 
Total salaries and bills ................... |
Holvoke Sanatorium—
Appropriation ...........     
Additional appropriation .................. |
$  .
Salaries...  ... ee  ec   |
Bills .. ec        es 
$ 
Balance transferred to general receipts...... !
Received from all sources on account of Board of
Health and returned to general receipts..... .
Received from all sources on account of Holyoke ;
Sanatorium and returned to general receipts, |
Total receipts  ...  ...      ) 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
VITAL STATISTICS. During the year deaths occurred in the city, giving
a death rate of per cent per thousand population. Exeluding deaths of non-residents our actual death rate is
  per cent per thousand.

DISEASES DANGEROUS TO PUBLIC HEALTH.

The total number of cases of diseases dangerous to the

| publie health reported from December to November
  was  .

I appreciate the necessity for retrenchment and endeavor
to run the increasing field of work with the greatest economy
possible. feel, however, the need of nurse is more urgent
than ever before.

Respectfully submitted,
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
Health Officer.

|

Report of the Sanitary Inspector

— |

To the Board of Health: |

GENTLEMEN: herewith submit my report for the year |

ending November |

As requested by your Board, during the year special at- !
tention was given to the tenement properties owned by the
different manufacturing companies in the city of Holyoke,

and am pleased to report that regardless of expense each |

| and everyone of said companies complied with your requests |

and made number of improvements which very much  m- )
proved the sanitary condition and added to the comfort of

the tenants. |

I have inspected during the year hundreds of tenements |

from the cellars to the top floors reported to the office of im- |
provements, if important, that recommended to be made, and
also reporting and having improved everything, that in my
opinion, would improve the living conditions, from sanitary viewpoint, of the thousands of men, women and children
who live in the tenement district of our city. There yet re
mains much work to be done, which is very important and
absolutely necessary. However, know that the work done
by the Board of Health this year in the line of sanitary improvements, as is demanded by the laws of the nation and
state, is very much appreciated, not alone by the poor people,

who live in the congested districts, but by all the thinking |
public who are interested in this humane and important

work which your Board of Health, in common with all other |

kindred Boards and good people are trying to accomplish. |

Respectfully submitted,

DANIEL D. MAHONEY,

Sanitary Inspector. |

|

|

[

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing
To the Board of Health:

GENTLEMEN: As Inspector of Plumbing have the
honor of submitting the twenty-second annual report for the

} fiscal year ending November .

The following table will show to some extent the amvuunt
and nature of the work:
Water closets put in new buildings .................  
Sinks put in new buildings .......................  
Baths put in new buildings .......................  

. Bowls put in new buildings .......................  
Wash trays put in new buildings ..................  
Urinals put in new buildings ......................  
, Traps put in new buildings .......................  

Water closets put in old buildings .................  
Sinks put in old buildings ....................  
Baths put in old buildings .............  
Bowls put in old buildings ..................  
Wash trays put in old buildings .............:.....  
Urinals put in old buildings ......................  
Traps put in old buildings ........................  
Plumbing permits granted ................. ----.  
Plumbing inspections ................--+- - ---  
Water tests made .........          
Inspections of old and new plumbing ................  
Sewer imspectionS ..........         ewes DT

The department notes slight increase in plumbing
caused by alterations and repairs in old buildings. The
usual number of nuisances have been investigated, and in
most cases have been abated on verbal notice from the inspector.

Three general inspections have been made of saloons and

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF JIEALTH

the majority have been found to comply to the rules of the
Board of Health. Frequent inspections of few places have
been necessary to keep them up to the standard, and general improvement as regards clean and sanitary conditions
ean be reported. would recommend the abolishing of
‘‘Free Lunch’’ as served at present, as in the opinion of
many who are qualified to judge, the serving of food under
conditions where it can be handled promiscuously by the
public, where the same forks are used without washing, etce.,
is source of infection, contagion and prejudicial to public
health.

A noted decrease in the inspection of sewers is noted by
reason of the laying of sewers to the building line by the
eity.

In econelusion desire to thank the members of the department for their courtesy and co-operation.

Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.

REPORT OF THE |
Inspector of Milk and Vinegar
To the Board of Health:
GENTLEMEN: hereby submit my report for the year
ending November :
Total number of licenses granted .................  
Total number granted to stores .............. 
Total number granted to peddlers ................  
Number granted for sale of oleomargarine .........  
Money received for distilled water ................ 
Paid into City Treasury as fees received.......... 
Number of quarts of sweet milk sold daily ........  
Number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily......  
Number of quarts of buttermilk sold daily ........  
Number of quarts of cream sold daily ............ |
Number of samples tested, milk ..................  
Number of samples tested, condensed milk .........  
Number of samples tested, vinegar ..............  
Number of samples tested, cream ................  .
Number of samples tested, ice cream ..............  
| Number of samples tested, human milk ............  
Number of samples tested, kerosene ..............  
Number of warnings sent ..........      
Dairies Inspected .........  ...             
Stores and milk rooms inspected ................  
In conclusion desire to thank the members of the
Board of Health, also my assistant, Mr. Edward O’Connell,,
for their courtesy and co-operation.
Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL P. HARTNETT, Pu. D.,
Inspector of Milk..

REPORT OF THE
Inspector of Meats and Provisions
To the Board of Health of the City of Holyoke:
GENTLEMEN: The following is my report as Inspector
of Meats and Provisions for the seven months ending November |
Total inspections, markets .................. ..  
Total inspections, fruit stores .............     
Total number of visits to slaughter house ...........  
Number of cattle slaughtered .................  
Number of veal slaughtered .................  
Number of swine slaughtered ................ )
' The following has been condemned as unfit for human
ood :
Beef, pounds. Strawberries, baskets.
Pork, pounds. Raspberries, baskets.
Poultry, pounds. Blackberries, baskets.
Sausage, pounds. Peaches, baskets.
Veal, pounds. Cereals, packages.
Lamb, pounds. Prunes, pounds.
Liver, pounds. Apples, bushels.
Beans, pounds.
The above does not include articles of food condemned
on account of fires occurring in the following buildings:
Holyoke Baking Company, Sargeant street, May  ,
 —
Canned fruit,  Bread, loaves.
Raisins, pounds. Lard, pounds.
Molasses, gallons. Flour, sacks.
Cookies, boxes. Cakes,  .
J. H. Fitzsimmons, Race street, October —
Flour, barrels.
‘Respectfully submitted, .
|  THOMAS J. SHINKWIN, M. D. V.,
| Inspector of Meats and Provisions.

Report of the Bacteriologist
To the Honorable, the Board of Health:
GENTLEMEN: herewith submit my report for the year
ending November :
DIPHTHERIA.
Diagnosis Release Total Total
Pos. Neg. Pos. Neg. Cases Cultures
December ..................  
January .................... 
February .................. |
March ...................... .. 
April .......... ..     D...  
May .............. --. .. 
June .........c     .. 
July co...        ees  ...  
August .........c  ..  
September ..................  
October ..................-. 
November ................-.  
Totals .................. 
TUBERCULOSIS.
ge ERR? F
as  gg &
Positive .......  
Negative ......  
Total .....  
TYPHOID.
Positive ....... .. .. es we L..  ...  
Negative ....... ..  ....  ....  
Total ...... —— 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
‘OPHTHALMIA.

There were but four smears from the eyes of the new
born examined during the year, of these one was positive and
three negative.

SUMMARY.

TotaL EXAMINATIONS.

Diphtheria  ...  ...       SFI |

Tuberculosis .........     ec ete t      

Typhoid ....  ...   ce cent teen ene  

Ophthalmia Neonatorum .............         

Respectfully submitted.
J. J. CARROLL, M. D.,
Bacteriologist.
: |

Report of the Holyoke Sanatorium
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF HEALTH:

GENTLEMEN: The fourth Annual Report of the Holyoke Sanatorium for the fiscal year, ending November  ,
 reads as follows:

Appropriation ..........     ees 

Additional appropriation .....................  

$ 

Amount expended ..............     ) 

Balance ..........       cect eet   
MAINTENANCE ACCOUNT.

Expended by the Board of Health:

Salaries to physicians ...............   
Salaries to nurses .............    
Salaries to help ..........c.   ee   ees  
Substitute murseS ........  ...     eens  
Substitute help ...........          

$ 

Food:

Meats, poultry, fish, vegetables, etc............... 
Groceries (flour, butter, sugar, canned goods, ete.),  
Milk wo...      t c   
Eggs .. cc.     tee    
Fruit            eens  
Teas, coffee, COCOA ........      nee  

$ 

|
|
|
 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
Miscellaneous :
Drugs and hospital supplies .................... 
Dry goods (toweling, table linen, ete.) .......... !
Paper goods (cups, napkins, ete.).............. 
Sweeping compound (dustdown) ............... |
Soap (liquid, soap powder, etc.) ................  
Rubber goods (bags, caps, bedrings, etc.) ........  
Office supplies (ink, pads, charts, etc.) ..........  
Electrical work (repairs) ............   ees  
Ambulance, cartage, freight ....................  
Disinfectants ........  ... cc    cease  
Clothing, shoes, ete. (patients) ................. |
Kitchen supplies (crockery, ete.) ............... |
Telephone .......  ...     teen eens |
Barber ......  ...         eens  |
Tee ..         tees  ces !
SUNArieS  ...       ence ees  
—— |
$  !
Expended by the Board of Public Works: |
| Heat, Light and Water: |
Fuel oo.  ...   veessncevev sesees  ,
Electricity  ...   ce           :
Water oo...       t   |
—— |
$  }
City Property :
Repairs .....     ee       
Pumping Station:
Fuel ......    t cence   ecc 
Lighting (power) .......... ce        :
City property (repairs) ............   ee |
$ 
Total expense for maintenance ..............$ 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH  
EQUIPMENT ACCOUNT. ,
(No REPLACEMENTS. .
Expended by the Board of Health:
Bedding (blankets, pillows, spreads, ete.) ........ 
Kitchen utensils ............  cc   eens  
Tools and implements ..............     
$ 
Expended by the Board of Public Works:
Grading (labor, etc.) ..........    
Total expense for equipment ...............  
Amount expended by the Board of Health....... .$ 
Amount expended by the Board of Public Works,  
Total expenditures ..............  Lee 
CASH ACCOUNT.
From trustees of hospitals for consumption....... 
From State Board of Charity ...................  
From other cities .......  ...      eens  
Total ..  ...           ees 
PER CAPITA.
Average number of patients per day ...........  
Total expense for maintenance ............... 
Average daily expense for maintenance of one
Patient  ... cc      neces 
Average weekly expense for maintenance for one
Patient .....       tees 
ADMISSIONS AND DISCHARGES. |
Number of patients remaining in Sanatorium, November
 wo     ce tet   b
Number of patients admitted during year. (including readMISSIONS) ......           OO
Number of patients treated during year ...............  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH
Number of patients discharged apparently arrested....  
Number of patients discharged improved ..............  
Number of patients discharged not improved ..........  
Number of deaths (moribund on admission  ........  
Number of patients remaining in Sanatorium, November  ,

CONDITION OF PATIENTS ON ADMISSION.
Incipient .......  ...     ce essesree I
Moderately advanced .............  cccs ees LD
Advanced .......       t   teense es OF

NATIVITY OF PATIENTS.

Massachusetts ...........      e  
United States  ...    cc    eG

Total matives ........  ...             
AUStIIA woo   cence tenet    se  
Camada .....    ect tec ees seesecsees  
FvanCe  ...      tee  stse ee
Germany  ... ..      et eeeserec  L
GreeC@ Loci   tee t tet  cece L
Treland ..  ... cc ce       eter eccae  

Total foreign ..........     ete   Ob

Total matives .......            tees OG

Total .....   ec  eet  teec  OO

In conclusion, desire to say, would be unappreciative,
were not to publicly acknowledge the uniform courtesy received from the members of the Board of Health, and their
office attaches.

To the visiting physicians, am indebted for their kindly
advice and co-operation.

To the assistant nurses, my sincere thanks, for their
faithfulness and sympathetic interest in the work.

The report of the year is respectfully submitted.

, MARGARET G. HEALY.

REPORT OF THE
Board of Health Tuberculosis :
| Dispensary

To THE HONORABLE, THE BoarpD OF HEALTH:

GENTLEMEN: hereby submit the report of the Tuber- ,
culosis Dispensary from July to November :
Total attendance at dispensary .................+....  
Number of persons examined at dispensary ............  

Of this number—
Previously reported to the Board of Health ........  
Examined as suspects on own condition ............... Ill
Examined because of exposure to tuberculosis ........  
Reported to Board of Health by dispensary physician after eXamimation .........            
Suspects kept under observation ................-+-. .
Number of bed patients and private patients visited....  
Number of dispensary patients admitted to Sanatoria..  
Number of dispensary patients treated at hospitals.....  
Number of deaths of dispensary patients .............  

I wish to thank the members of the Board of Health, all ,
its employees, dispensary physicians and all other physicians
of the city for their courtesy to me and co-operation in this
new branch.

Respectfully submitted,
. MISS ANNA I. BURKE,
Dispensary Worker.

REPORT OF THE
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, City of
Holyoke, Mass.:

GENTLEMEN: The forty-second annual report of the
City Engineering Department for the year ending November
  is hereby submitted.

| RECEIPTS.

By appropriation .............. ec      
Tramsfer .....  ...   t     ees  

$ 

EXPENDITURES.

Salaries of City Engineer and assistants ......... 
Office supplies ......  ... ce     ees  
Team hire, carfare and expenses ............-...  
Printing and binding ................ ..      
Telephone service ........   teens  
Engineering periodicals ...........-.       
City Directory  ...  ... enone  

$ 

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
; BRIDGES. ,

The condition of some of the city’s bridges makes it imperat've that they be painted this year. The municipality has
an investment of about  in bridges, including those

| over the Connecticut river to South Hadley Falls and Willimansett.

It is estimated that the value of the canal bridges needing immediate attention is approximately Replacing
them will probably cost from  to This
large expenditure can be deferred for number of years by 
the comparatively small investment. required for scraping and
painting.

Development of an athletic field in the park at Bh
Street to replace the Maple Street grounds, where it is proposed to erect the Central Grammar School, was begun during the year. While the present grounds are inadequate a
field to meet all requirements can be developed at minimum
cost. This project must be considered, however, in connection
with the proposed bridge across Elmwood Park at Pine Street,
where modifications have become necessary to meet requirements not provided for in the preliminary plans.

There is more merit in the proposition to partially fill
the dingle than is generally realized. Throughout the summer months each year no water flows in Dry Brook dingle,
which is in reality storm water channel. Many of the sewers.
in Elmwood and Oakdale, on the advice of Mr. W. E. MeClintock of Boston, an expert in outdoor sanitation, were
constructed with overflow outlets to the dingle, so that dur- |
ing heavy rainstorms the water is to greater or less degree
saturated with sewage. Naturally the saturation will inerease with the extension of the residential districts in Elmwood, Oakdale and the territory west of Northampton Street.
It would seem that the proper method of caring for the brook
under these conditions would require covered conduit such
as has already been partially constructed from Maple Street
westerly. By extending the Maple Street culvert to the line

| of Linden Street, filling in the so-called dingle with ashes and

 
|
|
  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER |
i
other waste, discontinuing Bh Street from Franklin to
Linden and diverting travel through these streets, an athletic
field equal to any in the state could be developed. Roadways
connecting Elmwood and Oakdale could then be constructed ,
through the park, making the useless land on the south side
of the dingle available for municipal purposes. With such |
a development bridge would be unnecessary and the ,- !
  or  involved in its construction would go far |
towards completing the other project. |
The Dwight Street footbridge has presented new prob- |
lem and tentative plans were submitted to the engineers of the
B. M. R. R. for change in the location of the bridge which
would give shorter spans across the tracks.
The center line of the proposed location is twenty feet |
south of the center line of the present bridge. It is proposed
to change the grade of the floor of the bridge so that the |
easterly end will be level with Bowers Street, and from that |
point to the abutment west of the tracks the floor of the |
bridge will pitch at slightly steeper grade than at present. |
The tentative plan submitted to the R. R. Engineer provided |
 for intermediate piers which will divide the length of the |
bridge into number of spans. flight of stairs will run !
from the pier nearest the present westerly tracks to meet the l
sidewalk at point about thirty feet east of the easterly line
of Main Street with one platform over the driveway leading |
from the freight yard to Dwight Street, and another plat- :
form to break the first flight. It is proposed to cover the
stairs so as to protect them from the elements. The space underneath can be utilized for public comfort station and |
bootblack stand. )
Steel girders protected with concrete and reinforced |
concrete floor will form the superstructure. |
Word has been received from the engineers of the railroad that the location has been approved. |
Specifications were prepared for wood block pavement :
for the Willimansett Bridge to replace the old plank floor.
These were not used, however, and the bridge was replanked |
during the vear. :
!

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER 
A map is being prepared for use at the Springfield Bridge
hearing showing the location and. distances of the various
routes from the business center of Holyoke, High and Dwight
Streets, to the business center of Springfield, at the corner
of Main and Lyman Streets. It will be interesting to the public to know that the shortest route between those points is
through Willimansett, Chicopee Falls and Liberty, Chestnut
and Lyman Streets in Springfield. The distance via West
Springfield and the proposed bridge is about two miles longer.
The difference in the various routes by way of Willimansett
is very small.
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF CITY.
Eo —— acres     SSS SSS 
E ‘Sob ton Pa “ss ;
} PEL) EP) eB se] By ge
eotine om .
Location Be  ae  
) See o. 
| “
South Hadley Falls (county bridge)| |
eight Spans ..........- |  ft.|  ft.  
Bridge st. at Valley Miuills..........  ft.|  ]; ft.  
. Lyman st., over Ist level canal.....  ft.)  ft.  
Lyman st., over  level canal......  ft.|  ft.  
Dwight st., over Ist level canal
(brick road and concrete walk)....  ft.]  ft.  
Dwight st., over  level canal (brick
road and concrete walk).........  ft.  ft.  
Appleton st., over Ist level canal....  ft.]  ft.  
Appletoa st., over  level canal....  ft.j  ft.  
Cahot st., over Ist level canal......  ft.|  ft.  
Cabot st., over  level canal.......  lv| ft.|  ft.  
Cabot st., over  level canal (granite road and concrete walk)......  ft.]  ft.  
Sargeant st., over Ist level canal....  ft.[  ft.  
Sargeant st., over  level canal....  ft.|  ft.  
Tackson st., over  level canal......  ft.]  ft. in.|  
Main st., over  level canal.......  ft.|  ft.  
Willimansett (county bridge), three
SDANS wc  ecv cer ccenste ecans  ft.|  ft.  
Willimansett Bridge (approach).....  ft.|  ft.  
Footbridge over B. M. R. R. tracks
at Dwight st. .........     were  }......[... ft.  
 
  Oc) c:  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
TABLE SHOWING HISTORY AND CONSTRUCTION
ACCOUNT OF THE BRIDGES OF THE CITY.
: \
Name of Location Built by Year Kind Cost
Bridge
a
Appleton St...:Over Ist Level Canal ‘Holyoke Water Power Co.! Metal Not Known
Appleton St.../Over  nd Level Canal) Pown of pitolyoke. weve) TS ““ 
ij Weplacec v
Appleton. St...) ‘City of Holyoke........ “s 
Bridge St.....| |} Holyoke Water Power Co.! Wood Not Known
Replaced by ;
Bridge St.....| *“ (City of Holyoke........ Composite 
Cabot St......|Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.| “e Not Known
Cabot St......,Over  nd Level Canal lolyoke Water Power Co.| Wood ““
*Replace y
Cabot St..... ou“ City of Holvoke........ Metal
Cabot St....../Ower  rd Level Canal Holyoke ater Power Co.| Me ood “
eprace asonry
Cabot St.....  City of Holvoke........ Arch 
Dwight St.....,Over  st Level Canal Holyoke ater Power Co.; Metal Not Known
eplaced Dv
Dwight St.....) hee of Holyoke......../| 
Dwight St.....,Over  nd Level Canal. Holvoke WV ater Power Co. Wood Not Known
‘Replaced by
Dwight St...)  City of Holyoke........ Metal 
Jackson St....] (Holyoke Water Power Co.| ood Not Known
; Replaced by .
Jackson St....| 'City of Holyoke........) 
Lyman St.....;Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke ater Power Co.| Not Known
Replaced by
Twman St..... \City of Holyoke......  Metal 
Lyman St.... [Over  nd Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.| Wood Not Known
teplace y
Iyman St....). “Town of Holyoke..... Metal 
Nlain St...-- Over  rd Level Canal Tolyoke ater Power Co. Wood Not Known
Replaced by
Main St......  [Town of Holyoke......} 
Replaced by
Main St......, ““ “Town of Holvoke....... Metal 
‘Replaced by
Main St......)  ‘City of Holyoke........ 
| Masonry
Sargeant St... Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke ater Power Co.! Arches Not Known
eplace y
Sargeant St...| “s |lolyoke Water Power Co.| Wood oe “e
Meta] and
Replaced by Reinforced
Sargeant St...) (City of Holyoke........ Concrete 
Sargeant St.. || Over  nd Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co.| Metal Not Known
Dwight St.... Over B. M. R. RI ;
Foot Bridge’ Tracks............{City of Holyoke........ 
|
COUNTY BRIDGES.
See ——————————————————S-SSS————SSSSSSOEE.:.: ————
Holyoke and Joint Board Hampden
So. Hadley (Over Connecticut land Tlampshire County
Falls Bridge River............+.../Commissioners.......... Wood 
Holyoke and ‘Replaced by Joint Board
So. Hadley lover Connecticut |Hiampden and Hampshire
Falls Bridge River..........++.../County Commissioners...| Metal 
Holyoke an
Williman- lovee Connecticut Hampden County .
sett Bridge River.         Commissioners... ..e. - 
“Replaced by Old Bridge from Dwight St.; Cost included in New Bridge on Dwight St.
Note—Total construction account of bridges to date, .

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
PAVEMENTS.

Asphalt pavement similar to that which has been laid
on the lower Springfield Road and on Dwight and Northampton Streets was laid in Northampton Street from Cherry
Street to the Whiting Hill, so-called, and in Hampden Street
from Nonotuck to Northampton. Granite pavement was laid
in Main Street from Jackson to Canal and in West Hampden
from School to Lincoln. concrete pavement was laid on
the southerly side of Sargeant from Northampton easterly
about feet. No asphaltic surface was placed on this
pavement as it was desired by the Board of Public Works to
make test of the use of concrete without the expensive top
covering. It is believed that the pavement will be economical
and will give good service. Union Street and Hitchcock
Street were also paved with mass concrete. Dwight Street
from Front to Main was paved with vitrified brick. Lines,
grades and estimates were given on all streets paved during
the year.

cs Eo ESea ge ce ge ga ge ce
sc Ss BEeD OF BO BT OCS BO WSC
of or) Om Mo Pe Me MOS
U  
ct ct  rae) On
-  .Eom be 
esecesn Sse bes
gaSegeO YU GO Ee 
ee EgSESER VY OY @
 SS BR be Le bh AY hM J
:  oe LES ge
 Par Boa  om Om HS  
we 
. fa SUN Cry CY Sou .
-—- -.. bee be
ESUeETES  ra revin
Ciaeaaco  fe) pele
“Ee ens zonTt gorse
Svvety+t  PSm Po
 BOSD §- et et RRO AO
:  ce t
a Ft mh EF  BS HR RE
  con fon)  rm
Sue *
me a
mand
|e ed  Ki c) Sa
on So  i) Cc
Lo)  lon)  Co 
FP
.  Lo"
i 
Q ao FE BSEY’ .
  areas)
om ran [o} oO os Og re .
if* SYM Sz oe
Zz. om   as CS
— om ‘- Na we
™ oe nN  :
Ce 
eH  &
| a) ey Ye)  eal il  
Ki  )
—  ot ct ‘™ gS
) fom} Se Sod al  an UCD uw ov be
A  
LX —— —— of a.
 o. Ky xv
op) £€ YE SS
QO 
jo)  
q  Yon) Kes] Lo] w
. oe  Lo)  coc. on us
oa} gz}  RB FB et NRF a
 Ot So o.  So n
or @
. "f. ., —* ————  -O eo a) cy ca)  
lca SS , SC E ey 
' ome om
 zo BN sg SN aN Ml rie:
[  WEF SoS
ae  ”  re] 
oe £  #F om zo
ea re) rey OO aS
a -
 lo.ol El oF
Pn  ls el
fx ‘PX “DSP  S&S  SS S&H ZO
oO Ul volIy bas —- Can) nN d
 rm
Sal fom] in} oO aoe 
Th .f Ul  oF in ra) x
wo i] rT YysusT wt
- tS yee Sy 
oper y
“XUV mn oF od
: :
bd ap .
 Sc Se] :
.  "a
 DBD Es ;
 FSD ge
cS. "o 
al ‘S  ") view bd Ra  a
  [on oO uJ c
Bo) csr? wn wn Oo Ss F&F fF £€ES &
er,
e bd  e
. mF .
bd Cc lod  ®
.  md
  
g OH  §§ KH FF Fg
b ce Ges  }
pew (s na r}  GH fa) 
a  &
:  -Y  —! Nn ,
.  bd Pt  Oo e
 tt nn Kn :
 OG.  ey  ro) 
v ve  fe) Lal re
v  mo]
— es P?,) to
nn rs] bo  BS (a
Fo) uv no m& Ff  Mm BG

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
SEWERS.

The river outlet from the Highland Park system and the
culvert under the B. M. R. R. tracks as well as the sewers
in the various streets in Highland Park were completed during the year.

Reports were made on sewer for the River Terrace district and also on the sewer in Essex Street. Extensions were
made to the Columbus Avenue, Orchard Street and Ridgewood Avenue sewers. ,

A new sewer was laid  Northampton Street from the
Westfield Road northerly to the Ball property. sewer was
also constructed to accommodate the properties on the easterly side of the Springfield Road near the Holyoke and West
Springfield line.

Assessment maps were prepared for all sewers on list
furnished by the Board of Publie Works.

Lines and grades were given for all sewers constructed
during the year.

Owing to alterations made in the Elnwood and Oakdale
trunk sewer to accommodate new construction by the Germamia Mills several lengths of diameter cast iron pipe were

| removed. These were used for the culvert under the B. MM.
R. R. at the outlet for the Highland Park Sewer system,
thereby saving expensive construction at this point.

During the vear report was made to the Board of Publie Works following washout on the E. N. White and Dr.
Bagg property, through which the overflow from Street's Tee
Pond runs. Due to stoppage in the culvert under the driveway in Strect’s premises the water flooded to and across
Northampton Street, reaching the low ground on the easterly
side. This caused considerable damage to newly built roadway. From the conditions it was concluded that the city was
in no way responsible.

Following is list of sewers built during the vear  .

E E
/  wk oe oR BO FE, §FFEZE
oot *
J  SB  wo ow wege uw Pg tig hing ag &
to to omme) Oo Sx Bx) at an an ana gn
cS Ss Se §*X OC EeREKO Fk yeu
e on a! i) te at ot at te SM
 foo) fey (J he Oo oe", Of to
n on on  eof Sofi wy Si-  peel orn ain Pao
oe
; EE ES so ow Eemfst Etsntetr a
yr) ae le] —
KO ow co  eq
 eo ao se
Un, ms on on xn S&S t#|— Ge S
Me e— ll 
 . |) cs
One PY o-—
oma
Be) oe o|  
S  et et ro an &
a excl  
Seo!ea S
  Ne) Onn  —
mike  foal oO PN —]
Na
sf Ss “Ss: |] a
eS Oo  os —-  oo:  SC la Bey kl S&S
  [os  le Semol c
Ev bot -S  OSH Si €
Y iy] i] i} Zou  Wen  cw Oot  OF pe  ec Ss ECEGR BOZO ad 
wg of SF FBS Favind dad SeReRe| &
wt OO  NANZO  NsBNsN dO  SH @|» oa we oe  So oa oO hd
Eaq@ Ke Ve)  ed t-  om rT or  .lhlURllClUle oe ce nN cr oe
ee SRR RR RR BRE STE   Ie
——. 
im vs nr}
. ao oO -)
meme  nN Or oQ
z ang  aco ao  msm wo Oe a)
eeeo ‘s
oom ey —— Y

 &s: 

be om  bed bad —

aa  Ay Pu  q.

a on text  .
Zi  s. ae

  Fe SPF FE io

B ey ws te Le rc oe
' OH WH e+ ewe UH te te a

fe Bs: SAGE EE Pe CSCS gis ibe SE SESE:  
— same FQ CKO: f:  BS: SSH gs Sse wis  S:

( Mont hd zY An Ye  cS Z, id  "a om fe  
* Oa  poy Py com he  
eeu Fe fw re om we oe .S  a. rn)

-— om vont. maa  rJ  Seog S.  Sle fe S

Vv. om om ot [oo Sou ride al ‘S om  pend me Lo

 oon wo YB  eo  eer ore -rt- een  LT oe
i) Ase mu *tOVEeeY wo:  Clo eO yeti OS Be BIG:

pmo eat QO ome We  oe OF wo ve  uo. &.  —

Oo mo oeoe OD ao Ve Ow ee. om fo]  roy

S Vea moewr LOSES TB 

 eScg tektcEt el el wehbe *Lesele fe  “ew to tg He
Ssq €f  SESLe ese cgead -YIM Ys
o  Qel few £w ae ece Eis iog OS  be

 an AEE,  ey GY ats BHOEZS  evt Set oe —
fx Pb Tt  ow ELH ov cv Cs a” FS, SSUVEYEVEVE To Sat oatos SESE  issSeter HW SSSSES RISES Sa eo SSCS GFR AG ROSA ESS SCE ME FR ER GA ER FO 
SSiGZi: ERISA: EF: E: Ei Fi SE: Fig EcEse: |e
a a) ‘o uw  o-  Bi :Ydgsu  “Shee ew

Hi eu :*€:a Bigs:  g: ge gFete: Piece se: .
SS SE ig SC eE: §: §: #@: ed: §:  qs

 SSE Ip AZ IPE DS:  ge seses isimim: :
on   ow fo}

“ Be B- NYG. as ere: +

ba] Ba ons Su. OS RRS  Ld  os oe  v.& v.& ev  oS  id
es tetens vs eo: oe: eo: ak rs) be
ae Bw Fo oe fF ome weRnTy oe "“o*  (o]
( s. :. SaESECH Se  Si ws pesersr gs Sea BBs:
Sie, cue B&akEC GP ES EF Ey ESEERES evSveveves F

Od See OV mit be hs To oso &
: nan ew SswEres ss De) exes tsas sé Ysvatak 
Sent Cont Not  ES SS oO .*.: rer. ont Som pe &N Oe ae BEGGAR AO 
we OO cn
ooane AgxgHnooEt ébete  x
fe] goteu. SL geese cf dg. Sbehe. :
y OCS YE Ean -CO FY HY “e PEPEOD CGY Ele es .
E Sev a&  siz ak Ze ge "SS ce ete Bee CCECTeES 
c Oe Ue LS om OF OF OF Om Ow Bs eougreEs oS
oo ween by meg oA ,F  So® OM®R ROBE 
. pe &e of. n-ne eo“ wemzece we Ee
a es or   gm lees pes testy on Oo Soe ‘ea )
agora vn ye peiecbe ge PH SS Une Ste oi BO Su 
oat EXe fos tm se use er St BESS  eT Te Tse Sot oF oy 
Me NIN: br Wi-  het
oe PROS RANE AS “es Ne) YU URDYUNY   Bos Sore eS 
: nan |
. . a
ao Dr inntnnm:e: OU E
 rr) Nn  weitere: o. nn ou 
E SO, Wah Nn “eZ  ey a. Nn wo. CW Cw
a ao as wo  Ue Ue oe -e: FE &E Poe BE |”
vA  vu ‘a SSSSBtSsts Ss  Caw cl
 ct  is r) SvtgtocovT sc vgs og SSe
mY we Or  corat of  sks O
OA Mp Sess essgos seu —-  oF ew 
"  'o  owr owe suerg” vv OE  uw
| YY Zo eo we HO Yee oor i
S$ os  e, St
o QO Pos we
Zz Or) Ww Ye) te] oS or fan) fond Sc ce co  
. we  ce  
‘  oS
 

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
STREETS.

Plans were prepared for the widening of Northampton
Street from Lincoln to Morgan, which if carried into effect,
will relieve the congested condition of traffic in that portion
of Northampton Street and relieve the danger which at the
present time exists at the corner of Lincoln and Northampton streets.

The plan took into consideration existing conditions in
that locality as well as the widening which took place some
years ago from Morgan Street northerly. North of Morgan
Street the widening was done on the easterly side, land having been given by the abutters without compensation. In order to carry out the plan which was contemplated at that
time widening must necessarily take place on the easterly
side of the street.

In Northampton Street was widened from to
  feet between Dwight Street and Ball’s Corner. It might
be well at the present time to give due consideration to the
much discussed proposition of making Northampton Street
a fine boulevard.

Plans were also prepared for relieving the danger point
at the corner of Dwight and Northampton Street, where
Craft’s barn projects into the street.

Prominent citizens signed petition requesting the Board
of Aldermen to take preliminary steps towards the project of
extending High Street. plan and estimates were submitted
in  Since that time the matter has been discussed in the
Board of Trade. Again this year the Board of Aldermen ordered the City Engineer to prepare plans and estimates for
various routes. Accordingly, surveys were made and large
and accurate plan prepared. Estimates of cost of various
routes are being made, taking into consideration distances,
grades, land damages and values, scenic effects, cost of construction, removal of buildings involved in the various routes,
accommodation to travel and various other matters. The

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
project being one of great importance to the whole conmunity
should receive the most careful study. )

A imap showing the location of Antil wall in relation to
street lines on Main Street and the Old County Road was
filed with the Board of Publie Works.

Plans and profiles of the following streets were also prepared:

Pleasant Street from Appleton to Essex.

Canal Street from Mosher to B. M. R. R. tracks,

Montgomery Avenue.

Wyckoff Avenue.

River Terrace.

James Street, Springdale.

Northampton Street. from Cherry Street to Whiting Hill.

Loomis Avenue.

Sargeant Street.

. Walnut Street.
 Princeton Street, Wellesley Road to Pleasant,

Dartinouth Street, Pleasant to Wellesley Road.

Ainherst Street, Wellesley Road to Pleasant Street

Cleveland Street from Ilarvard to Yale Street.

Stanford Street. from Pleasant Street to Wellesley Road.

Yale Street from Pleasant to Park Slope.

Harvard Street from Pleasant to Wellesley Road.

Wellesley Road from Dartmouth to Princeton Street.

For the work done by this departinent on sidewalks and
curbing vou are referred to the tabulated lists appended herewith.

A state law has gone into effect this year requiring descriptions of assessed properties with the plans thereof to be
filed in the Register of Deeds office. Plans have been prepared for the Board of Publie Works, showing the location of
all curbing and sidewalks laid during the year. Copies of
these maps will hereafter be filed in) Springfield. Similar
plans are in course of preparation for the City Treasurer on

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
sewer assessments. Copies of these will also be filed in the
office of the Register of Deeds.

CITY HALL COURT. |

Plans are being prepared for the development of City
Hall Court from High Street to Newton Place to provide for
the accommodation of the public having business with the
G. E. Department and the departments in the Annex Buulding. Eventually City Hall Court wil! extend to Railroad
Street.

SCHOOLS.

New sanitaries were constructed at the Nonotuek Street
School from plans and specifications prepared in this office.
Specifications and plans for the addition to the Elm Street
School were also prepared. At the request of the architect
for the new Central Grammar School cross section map of
the Maple Street lot, giving elevations and contour lines was
made by this department.

Recommendations were made for repairs in the Spring- |
dale School by placing tie rods to prevent further spreading
of the walls. Cracks have appeared in the walls, which are
due to settlement probably caused by underground springs.

The City Engineer accompanied the State Inspector in
his examination of the various schools, both public and parochial, to determine their condition as to safety in the event of
fire. copy of his report has been filed with the Board of
Publie Works and in the office of the City Engineer.

PUBLIC COMFORT STATION.

The necessity of providing public comfort station has
received much consideration during the year. The need has
become more pressing due to the removal of the old sanitaries from the City Hall basement. The Planning Board and
the Civie Committee of the Chamber of Commerce have given
much study to the matter. Plans were prepared by this de  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER

partment for fitting up the room in the southwest corner of
the City Hall vacated by the Police Department. Plans were
also prepared for underground sanitaries under the City Hall
lawn with entrances from the north and south driveways on
the High street side. Plans and specifications were made for
a building on the lawn at the southeast corner of the City
Hall lot. loan of  was provided for the construction
of these sanitaries. Contractors were required to submit four
separate bids as follows:

No.  Outside walls to be of granite with random
ashlar filling as described in specifications with slate roof and

copper gutters, conductors and ventilators as shown or described in Exhibit No.  ,

No.  Outside walls to be of granite with random :
ashlar filling as described in specifications, with flat: gravel
roof, properly flashed and with conductors as shown in Exhibit No.  or as described in specifications and with rotary
ventilators. |

No.  Face brick exterior with hip slate roof, copper
gutters, conductors and ventilators, ridge rolls as shown in
Exhibit No.  with belt courses, dentils, caps, sills and steps
of granite.

No.  Face brick exterior with flat gravel roof as shown
in Exhibit No.  with belt courses, dentils, coping, caps, sills
and steps of granite.

The contract has not been awarded. |

PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.

In addition to the plans for the bridge at Pine Street
over the dingle, lines and grades were given for the layout of
various skating rinks and ball fields.

STREET NUMBERS.

Numbers were assigned for Parker Street, Cleveland
Street, Race Street, Wellesley Road in addition to number
of individual residences and apartments built during the year.

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

Plans of Canal Street and of Main Street were prepared
and elevations given for the layout of the pipe line on Canal
Street.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

At the request of the Board of Fire Commissioners a
skeleton map is being prepared showing the sizes of pipes and
the location of gates, hydrants and fire boxes in the various
streets of the city for use with the proposed manual of the
Fire Department. |

The City Engineer attended several hearings on various
matters and made examinations of all accident locations, preparing maps and other data therefor.

Monthly throughout the year water samples from the
Connecticut river were collected and sent to the State Board
of Health for examination. ,

Specifications and plans for the fittings in the City Hall
Annex, the court room and general office for the Police Department were prepared.

Convenient quarters of about the same area as the rooms
occupied by this department in the City Hall were provided
on the third floor of the City Hall Annex. They consist of
a well lighted drafting room, general waiting room, consulting room for the Engineer, Inspectors’ room, blueprinting
room, vault for the storage of plans, ete., and room for the
storage of instruments and supplies. The vault is equipped
in compliance with the requirements of the State Commissioner of Records. The department moved into the new quarters June .

In the City Engineer’s report for attention was
called to the necessity of taking into consideration the increase
in the city’s growth which will naturally develop as result
of river improvements.

Holyoke as the head of river navigation will be in the
near future the distributing point for large amount of

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
e
commerce branching in all directions. Your attention  s
therefore directed to the need of making provision for transportation and terminal facilities along the river bank bv making such reservations of land as may be necessary to meet requirements.
. CURBING.
| Cost per lin. .
Length in Kind cal ft. deliv. Average cost laid per
Feet ered to City lineal foot
 -in. first-class granite.......  $.  n. second-class granite....  ,Granite circles, in........  
a
SIDEWALKS.
rr al
Length in Kind Square Total cost per vd
Feet int Yards otal cost per yd. .
  {Portland Cement  . ($  exclusive of
| excavation
STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .

The following named streets have been accepted by the
City of Holvoke during the vear  :
Name of street From To Length Width |

\
Pleasant Appleton Poplar oD ft. feet
S. Canal Cabot Crescent ft. feet |
N. Canal ft.south The north  -ft. feet
of the south Ime of the |
line of B. M. R. !
Mosher R. ljocation '

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  

The established grades for the above named streets are as
follows:

North Canal Street from feet south of south line of
Mosher to the north line of the Connecticut River Railroad
Company.

Intersection of the center line of Canal Street. with the
northerly line of the Connecticut River Railroad
Company’s property, point feet more or less
south of the center line of Appleton Street......  

Center line of Canal Street at point feet south
of the center line of Appleton Street ..........  

Intersection of the center line of Canal Street with the
center line of Appleton Street .................  

Center line of Canal Street at the tangent point of a
eurve feet northerly from the center line
of Appleton Street .......  ... cc         

Center line of Canal Street at point feet south of
the south line of Mosher Street ................  

Width of street, feet.

Pleasant Street from Appleton to Essex.

Intersection of the center ne of Essex Street with the
center line of Pleasant Street, elevation........  

Tntersection of the eenter line of Dover Street with the

center line of Pleasant Street, elevation.........  
Intersection of the center line of Appleton Street with

the center line of Pleasant Street, elevation.....  

Width of street, feet.

South Canal from Cabot Street to Crescent.

Intersection of the center line of Canal Street with the
center line of Cabot Street ....................  

Tnterseetion of the center line of Canal Street with the
center line of Crescent Street ................  

Width of street, feet.

|
|
  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER
ELEVATOR INSPECTION.
| RECEIPTS. .
By appropriation ..............         
Operators’ licerise fees ...........  ss  
| 
EXPENDITURES.
Printing ......  ...         ecc
Equipment .......... cc       rene eens  
Balance unexpended .............. c +  
$ 
BUILDING INSPECTION STATISTICS.
Appropriation .......  ...           es 
Tramsfer ......       teen ec   
| 
EXPENDITURES.
Salary oo... cc   ee      eces 
Office supplies, printing and carfare ............  
Balance unexpended ...............c   
$ 
PERMITS ISSUED. |

Additions and alterations on wooden buildings ........  
Additions on brick buildings ........................  
Apartment blocks .............      eens  
Business buildings ............        T
Barns and garages ......  ...   ec      
FactorieS ...  ... teen      
Residences .......       ence eet ts OO
Two tenement dwellings .............. cc   LT

Storage houses .......        eens )

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
Public buildings ...........  ... ce  aee  
Number of permits issued ....................+.  .
Number of tenements ...................c   
COST OF ABOVE.
No. of
Permits Cost
: Wooden buildings ........... 
Alterations in wooden buildings,  
Total .......ss  
Brick buildings ............. 
Alterations in brick buildings,  
Total ...............-.. "
Fireproof buildings ........ 
Total .................. 
ELECTRIC WIRING.
RECEIPTs.
By appropriation ............    ese 
EXPENDITURES.
Salary  ... cc  ce         eccess  |
Office supplies, printing, carfare ...............  
Balance unexpended ............    ene    
$ 
INSPECTION DATA.
Number of specifications filed during the year .......  
Number of inspections, new installations ........:..  
Number of inspections, old installations ............  

  REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER )
STATISTICS.

The following is table of the statistics of the city of
Holyoke compiled and brought up to date:

Population May U. S. census ....  
Population May Water Works’ cenSUS oc    ee     teeta  
Number of voterS ....... ...      
Number of polls ......  ...       
Pubhe school enrollment, day ...........  
Pubhe school enrollment, night ...........  
Vocational school enrollment, dav .........  
Parochial school enrollment..............  
Area of CItv oo...         sq. miles
Greatest extent, east and west ........... miles
Greatest extent, north and south ........ miles
Area of school property ......... .... sq. ft.
Area of city parks ..........   acres
Area of city hall and eity vard lots ...... acres
Area of contagious hospital land .......... acres
Area of city farm, Loomis and Allen lots,

gravel bank on Springfield Road, ete... acres
Area of Fire Departinent property....  ... sq. ft.
Area of Mumieipal Lighting property...... sq. ft.
County Roads  ...  ...      miles
State Highway ...... .. ............ miles
Streets apted oo...  ... ec   ees mules
Streets unaccepted  ...  ees miles
Sheet asphalt pavement .............. miles
Asphalt block pavement .............. miles
Vitrified brick pavement ............ miles
Granite block pavement ............... miles
Hlassam pavement ...... ....    miles
Bitulithe pavement .............. miles
Wood block pavement ............. miles
Macadam pavement ..........      miles
Sidewalks and crossings  ... miles

REPORT OF CITY ENGINEER  
Water mains,  -in. and upwards in diameter, miles
GAS MAINS  ...   miles
SOWETS Loc       miles
River front ......  ...      miles
Steam railroad locations ............. .. miles
Electric railroad loeations ............... miles
Eleetme light and power eireuits (mumelPal) coo       eens miles
Kleetrie are street lights ........... ....  
Electrie Incandescent street lights ........  
Railroad stations ......  ...       )
Churches ...  ... cc cc    
Schoolhouses ...  ...   ees  
Commerelal schools .......    
Number of tenements, incliding residences,  
Police station ..  ...    
Bath houses  ...  ees  
Fire engine houses ...... ......    )
Fire alarm boxes oo...  ..        
Hook and ladder trueks ...... .......  
Fire hydrants, pubhie ................  )
Post offices and sub-stations ..............  
Area assessed vo... eens acres
Valuation, personal Lecce eu uu unes 
Valuation, real estate ...  ...     
Tax rate per  ..............  

| My thanks are extended to the City Offielals and my
eo-workers in the Engineering Department for their co-operation during the vear.
Respectfully submitted,
T. J. MacCARTILY,
City Engineer.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE ;
e
Department of Police !
ee |
OFFICE OF THE CITY MARSHAL.
December .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:
GENTLEMEN: In compliance with Chapter  Section  ,
of the City Ordinance, have the honor to submit my annual
report for the fiscal year commencing December and
ending December together with such suggestions as
in my opinion are necessary for the benefit of the department.
ORGANIZATION.
The regular force consists of Marshal, Assistant Marshal, Captain, Lieutenant, five Sergeants, Chief Inspector, four
Inspectors, and sixty Patrolmen, four of whom are detailed in
the office.
ROSTER OF THE FORCE,  .
. NAME RANK DATE OF APPOINTMENT
John R. Harrington, Marshal, January 
Patrick Herbert, Asst. Marshal, January 
Timothy Haley, Captain, February 
Peter A. Cullen, February 
Patrick E. Sullivan, Lieutenant, January 
Dennis Mack, Sergeant, May 
William E. Blackmer, January 
George L. Dickinson, February 
John J. Moriarty, ‘* February 
Patrick F. Rvan, ‘s January 
. |
:
i

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
NAME RANK DATE OF APPOINTMENT
Frank R. Metcalf, Inspector, February 
Maurice M. O’Connor, ““ June 
‘Peter J. Manning, February 
Edward F. Gilday, July 
Richard Peters, House Duty, January 
John A. Powers, January 
Cornelius Curran, ““ February  .
Michael Driscoll, “* February 
Michael J. Lynch, Patrolman, January 
Francis H. Hastings, January 
John A. Geran, January 
James B. Griffin,  February 
Jeremiah J. Lennehan, February 
James T. Donoghue, ‘* June 
Rock H. Lalonde,  June 
Thomas Bresnahan, June 
Maurice H. Shine, “s August 
Henry M. Fisher, August 
Daniel C. McCarthy, ““ September 
William J. Carey, February 
Patrick J. Kennedy, February  
James Malcolm, ‘“ July 
Patrick J. Driscoll, July 
Thomas J. Rourke, July 
Patrick J. Gaughan, July 
Andre J. Senay, “e March  *
Albert Mew,  June 
John J. O’Donnell, ““ June 
Maxwell McDowell, “s August 
James T. Welch, January 
John J. Grady, February 
Henry Sussenguth,  October 
Michael J. Clifford, February 
Michael P. Conroy, February 
Medrie H. Beloin,  February 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
NAME RANK DATE OF APPOINTMENT
John E. Goss, Patrolman, March  
George W. O'Connell, April 
Michael J. Prendetgast, ** October  John J. Austin, ‘* May 
Michael J. Fogarty, .* May 
Timothy J. Mannix, .* February 
George E. Leary, June 
Frederick W. Kuenzel, ** June 
Wilham A. Morgan, .* June 
Timothy J. Murphy, September 
Joseph A. Landry, .* D mber 
Michael J. HWerhhy, April 
James J. Tisdall, “* April 
John T. Quinn, April 
: Albert M. Albin, .* April 
; Garrett Bowler, April 
Patrick J. Falvey, .* Apnil 
Joseph P. Kane, ** June  
Arthur EB, Standen, ** December 
George Hickson, .* December 
Patrick J. Sullivan, .* December 
Edward EH. Ashe, ‘* December 
Archibald R. G. Fletcher, .s December 
John F. Moriarty, ‘* May 
Luke F. Kalmurry, .* December 
Otto Egar, ‘* D mber 
Thomas EK. Powers, ‘* January 
Michael J. Gintley, ‘* May 
Mrs. JXate Movmihan, Matron, April 
Willams Besset, Reserve Officer, January 
James J. Fitzgerald, ‘* January 
Joseph A. Champagner,  October 
Roger P. Coffey, April 
Charles G. Leonard, April 

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
NAME RANK DATE OF APPOINTMENT
Jeremiah F. Coffey, Reserve Officer, April 
Timothy F. Lenehan, January 
Roger Donoghue, ‘* January 
Frank P. Schenker, January 
James L. White, January 
John J. Sullivan, January 
John J. Finn, *‘ December 
Joseph H. Enright, December 
John M. Walsh, ‘“ December 
John McKinstrie,  December  !
Michael F. Finn, “s January 
Joseph Bader, November 
Patrick T. Monahan, “é July 
STATISTICS OF ARRESTS.
Total number of arrests ........... .c ce    ees Oyhdd :
Males  ...  ...        ete  ccevecs  
Females .......  ...       ete  tc   
ARRESTS WERE MADE FOR THE FOLLOWING OFFENSES.
Assault and battery .................  
Assault with dangerous weapon ..................  
Assault on an Officer ........  ...        
Assault with intent to ravish ................     
Attempt to break and enter ..............     ]
Abuse of female child ............  ...      
Adultery  ...  ...              
AbDOrtiOn  ...  ...  cc   cence     s  
Breaking and entering .............. ec  
Breach of the peace ..........          
Bastardy  ...  ...       teen eens  
Carrying revolver ...........       .
Carrying dangerous weapon ............   
Clandestine marriage ............cc   en  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Delinquent child ...........         teens  
Disturbing the peace ...........       eens  
Drunkenness ...........     ev  LOT
Evading carfare ........  ...           
Fornication  ...  ...           nee een   ()
Fraudulently conveying real estate .................  
Forgery...   cect       eet   nee  
Gaming on the Lord’s day .............       
Indecent exposure of person ............      
Keeping gaming house ............  see cues  
Keeping disorderly house ...............       
Larceny in building ............... ce   
TLareeny ... i.       cae LAT
Lewd and lascivious cohabitation ...................  
Lewd and lascivious persons in sph and behavior....  
Malicious mischief .......  ...     ees  
Murder .......  ...     ete   tee tee       
Manslaughter .......  ...  ...        
Non-support  ... ..    cect tee  eens  
Neglected child ........  ...          
Practicing medicine without being registered ........  
Plaeing obstructions on railroad track ..............  
Peddling without license ...........   eens  
Receiving stolen goods ...........     ees  )
Ringing false fire alarm ...........       
Sureties of the peace ...... ce  eens  
Stubbornness ....        
Tampering with fire alarm box ..............-  
Truany oo...         eens iW]
Unlawfully taking an automobile ...................  
Unnatural act  ...  ence   
Vagrany co.             eet eesc   
Violation city ordinance .........         
: Violation liquor law ..........   eeees  
Violation pure food Taw  ...  ...  ce   ees  
Violation of fish and game law ................--  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Violation cold storage law ............  c.      )
Violation of the motor vehicle law .................  
Walking on railroad track ..........    ees  
' DISPOSITION OF CASES,  .
Appealed  ... cc        eens  
Bound over to the Superior Court ..................  
Committed to the House of Correction .............  
Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment
Of fine ....        c  
Committed to State Farm, Bridgewater .............  
Committed to the Massachusetts Reformatory ........  
Committed to the Industrial School for Boys ........  
Committed to the Lyman School for Boys ..........  
Committed to the Hampden County Training School..  
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory ...........  )
Committed to the State Board of Charity ..........  
Discharged .........                
Dismissed ........    tee    ene ens  
Fined and paid .........     
Held for Superior Court without bail ..............  
Ordered to furnish sureties to keep the peace ......  
Nol prossed  ...          teens  
Probated and discharged ................ --  
Placed on file  ... ...      ete    
Released  ...            te eccc  DOD
 
NUMBER OF PERSONS ARRESTED EACH MONTH.
December, ...........  ...         
January,  ...            
February, .......  ...         LT
March, ...........             ees 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
April,  ... cc      eens 
May, wo... cebee       
June,  wo.      
July,          
August,  ... yg...   ec  §  
September,  ... ce      es  
October, ... eeee   
November, .....  ...       

AGES. )
Under years  ...  ...  ...  ee     and under vears .........  ...           and under years ........  cc        and under years ........  ee     Ol]
  and under years .............     ees  and under yearS ...........        LB
  and under yearS  ...      eens and years  ... ..             
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED.

» AmMerlea  ...             s  
AUStIlA  ... cc    t een   
Belgium ..  ... cc     eens D
Canada ......           
England .......  ...    ete    
France  ... ec      nena  
Germany oo...    teen     ees  
A cc  
Treland oo... coc          
Italy ee     een eens  
Portugal ...  ... ce   te nee   ees  
Poland wo...            

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
Russia  ... cc  cen  tence ve ess  
Scotland ........   ec     dl
SC  
Sweden ........          seen  dD
Turkey oo...   cc cc  ete     
THE FOLLOWING IS THE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL
SYSTEM.
Duty calls from patrolmen ......................  
Wagon ealls, days ...........     teens  
Wagon ealls, nights .................  ee.  
Nunnber of trips to Hampden county jail ..........  
Miles run wo... ec          seen
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY POLICE.
: Number of children found and restored to parents.... :
Number of meals furnished prisoners ..............  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured .... ,
Number of dead bodies found ..................-..-  
Number of fire alarms given ................. 
Number of fires extinguished without alarms ........  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported .......  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted .........  
Number of stray teams taken up ..............  
Number of street lights reported not lighted .........  
Number of arrests for other cities ............... 
Number of warrants for liquor served .............  
Nuinber of safe doors found open ..................  
Number of dogs shot .......... cc           
Number of defective sidewalks reported ............  
. Number of defective catch-basins reported ..........  
Number of insane persons cared for ................-  
Number of accidents reported ...............-.---.  
Number of notices served ............ cec  od 

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT.
Number of women arrested ............. -e.   
Number of women detained ...............  ees  
Number of insane persons cared for ...............  
OFFENSES WITH WHICH THEY WERE CHARGED.
Adultery seed   a ugen  enes  
Assault and battery .......  ...    ec eens  
Assault on an Officer .........  ...        ]
Breach of the peace ............ cc      
Drunkenness ..........     teeta  aes  
Delinquent child ........  ...    ees  
Formication  ... cc        eas  
Illegal liquor selling ............  cc     
Keeping disorderly house ..............    
Larceny  ... cc           s  
Lewd and lascivious cohabitation ..................  
Neglected child .....  ...    ce    ]
Stubbormness ..........       eens  
VASrTanecy ....       een      
DISPOSITION OF CASES.
Committed to the House of Correction ..............  
Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment
Of fine .. lec   tee    
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory ........... a
Discharged ........        tee eens  
Fined and paid ..... ....         ence eens  
Probated and discharged ............ ...  
Placed on file ...  ... ce     eens  
Released  ... te ce  ete     

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  

The work of the police matron varies very little from
year to year. Drunkenness claims the largest number of vic- |
tims and caring for such cases constitutes the hardest part of
the matron’s work.

We have had several cases of larceny or shop-lifting during the year. The offenders were young girls, some of them
from other cities.

Many places of ill repute were closed up during the year, |
some of the proprietors were sent to prison.

I wish to thank the Marshal and his assistants and the
members of the force for their courteous treatment and ready
co-operation in my work.

Respectfully submitted,
(Signed) KATE MOYNIHAN,
Matron.
John R. Harrington, City Marshal.

sir: herewith submit to you the annual report of the
arrests, cases investigated, property recovered, ete., by the
Detective Bureau during the year  .

AbDOrtion  ...   ce cect teen eens  
Abuse of female child ...........  ...    
Assault and battery ........  ...  ec      
Assault with dangerous weapon ..................-  
Attempt to break and enter ............. ec eues  
Bastardy  ...  ...      t    
Breach of the peace ..........      ees  
Breaking and entering ................ cuees  
Cohabitation  ...  ...    tee   seen  
Concealing goods ..........    cere cc        
Clandestine marriage ............      ]
Drunkenness ..........      ceca    D
Defaulting bonds .............    eet    
Evading hotel bill ..............  cc    

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

Eseaped from truant school ...................---.  
Forgery .......         ec enens  
Formication ..........       ences  
Indecent exposure ........  ...          ]
— Gareeny  ...   ce    s  
Larceny from building ...................    
Lewdness  ...  ...          
Lewd and laseivious assault .........  
Manslaughter  ...  ...          tees  
Non-support  ... cc         ens  
Neglected children .......     
Operating an automobile without leense ............  

Operating an automobile while under the influence of
VIQUOr wo.   ce ce      eens  
Operating an automobile with wrong number plate....  
Operating motorcycles without licenses ..............  )
Peddling junk without license .....................  
Probation revoked from Massachusetts Reformatory...  
Receiving stolen goods ...........    ees  
Stubbornness  ...  ... cc     eens  
Suspended sentence  ...       eens  
Sureties of the peace ........  ... ce       ]
Speeding motorevele ........            
Track walking ..........  ...       eaee  
Truancy oo...               
Unlawfully killing deer ..........  ...  
VAQTANCY  ...      eens  
Violation of the auto law .......  ... ce   ees  
Violation city ordinance ............  
Number of arrests for other cities ..... ...    
Number of cases investigated ..............--  
Number of photographs taken ................  
Number of finger prints taken ................  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE 
Number of Bertillion measurements taken......  
Number of boys making restitution not arrested...  
Number of girls making restitution not arrested.  
Number of men making restitution not arrested..  
Amount of money received from boys making resti: tution, not arrested .............    
Amount of money received from girls making res) tution, not arrested ...........  eens 
Amount of money received from men making rest}tution, not arrested ............e    eens 
Amount of money reported stolen .............. 
Amount of money recovered ................+.- 
Amount of property reported stolen ............ 
Amount of property reported recovered ........ 
Amount of property recovered for other cities ... 
Respectfully submitted,
(Signed) PETER A. CULLEN,
Captain of Detectives.
REPORT OF THE VICE SQUAD FROM MARCH TO
NOVEMBER .
NUMBER OF ARRESTS.
Lewd and wanton persons in sph and behavior ....  
Abuse of female child ...........  ...       
Assault with dangerous weapon ................  
Assault with intent to rape ...........   ee    
Assault and battery ...  ...          
Adultery oo...         eens  
Bastardy  ... cc cc              eens  
Carrying revolver ............       
DrunkennesS ........            eens  
Fornication ......  ...           
Gaming on the Lord’s day ................ee    
Tilegal liquor keeping ............    ce   eens  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
Illegal liquor selling ..........  ...    eens  
Keeping disorderly house ...............  
Keeping gaming house ..............-   
Larceny ......     cc     cette     
Lewd and lascivious cohabitation ................-.  
Non-support .........          
Vagraney .....        teen teens  
Violation of the automobile law ....................  
Keeping lying in hospital ...............  
Unlawfully practicing medicine ...............  
Number of cases investigated ............      
Number of bill posters approved ...................  
Number of bill posters not approved ...............  
Number of slot machines removed ..............+  
Amount of money received in fines ................ 
Number of persons committed for non-payment of fines,  
Number of persons committed .................  
Number of persons probated ................  
Number of persons discharged ..................  
| Respectfully submitted,
. M. H. SHINE,
(Signed) PATRICK J. GAUGHAN,
Police. Officers.
l
|
|
|
|

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
FINANCIAL REPORT. :
Appropriation ...........        s 
Additional appropriation ..................  
Receipts for cloth ..........  ...       
$ 
EXPENDITURES.
Payroll  ...  ...           cc es  
Miscellaneous expenses ...........    
|  ,
Receipts from fines in Police Court, Hampden
County and all other sources turned over to
general fund ............ cc    
CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.
Michael J. Ginley, appointed patrolman, May .
PLACED ON PENSION ROLL.
Thomas F. Riley, appointed January Placed
on pension roll October .

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE |
!  
| |
k
IN MEMORIAM. |
 
!
MICHAEL J. WALSH. .
Appointed December .
Died, April d.

eS

é i

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
POLICE STATION.

On July the department moved into the new
quarters in the City Hall annex. This supplies quarters
which the department has been looking forward too for some
years, the old quarters being too small, for the increasing
number of patrolmen and officers. It was also poorly lighted
and poorly ventilated, especially the cell room, today we have
ample room, and the cell room or lockup is second to none in
the country.

The Detective Bureau is equipped with complete Bertillion system as well as complete filing system, which adds
considerable more work to this department, but on the other
hand it simplifies the work in process of cleaning up, as well i
as being able to properly file old cases where they can be gotten
at immediately. This addition to the department places us on
a par with the other police departments in the United States
and Canada, where the Bertillion system is being universally
adopted.

This, together with the new filing system in the Police Station vault, and the new signal system makes this one of the
most. up-to-date departments in the country.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

I feel obliged to repeat my request of  that you appoint ten additional patrolmen, as it is my opinion from personal study and observation that the city is not properly patrolled, especially in the residential sections; the present posts
are too large for one man to cover properly. .

ASSISTANT POLICE MATRON.

I also wish to repeat my request for an Assistant Police
Matron. petition to the Board of Aldermen by Mrs. Moynihan, the matron, was referred to me, my appropriation for
  would not allow me to pay stated salary to an assistant,
but on several occasions we were compelled to call in extra
help for this department, and firmly believe you should appomt an assistant with stated yearly salary.

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
CLERK.

This department is in need of male clerk, who  a
stenographer. He could be used also to good advantage—
the filing system and monthly reports, ete.

SCRUB WOMEN.

We should have at least two good scrub women or as; sistant janitoresses. As it is now the building is too large for

one man, the present janitor, to look after the fires, do all the

sweeping, scrubbing and cleaning. It is impossible for him to

go over the rooms more than once week. The entire building

should be swept and dusted daily. The cell room should be

scrubbed thoroughly, bars and all, and good disinfectant applied daily. Unless this is done vermin might get into the place
through neglect. .

OPERATORS.

| would respectfully request that you appoint three operators for telephone calls and the Signal System. believe

this should be done so as to get better results from this work ;

as it is now, the officer in charge of this work has to respond to all wagon calls, leaving the entire work in the station to one man, such as telephones, signal ealls and desk ealls,

information bureau, as well as clerical work and looking after any prisoners that might be in the lockup.
AUTOMOBILES.

I repeat the recommendation of last year that you furnish
this department with touring car. The bills for automobile hire are increasing vearly. We have expended enough
in the last two years to purchase first-class touring car.
This car could be used to convey prisoners to jail, leaving the
auto patrol (which is used for the above purpose almost
daily) to do the work for which it was intended.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE  
CONCLUSION.

On behalf of this department wish to express thanks to
his Honor, Mayor John H. Woods, and the members of the
Board of Aldermen, the Judge and Clerk of the Police Court
for the many favors and courtesies extended to the department during the year.

I also wish to express my appreciation to the officers,
members of the department for their assistance to me, and for
the faithful manner in which they have performed their several duties.

Respectfully submitted,
JOIIN R. HARRINGTON,
Marshal.

] ]

Report of the City Auditor
To the Honorable, the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen:

GENTLEMEN: present herewith the annual statement

| of the receipts and expenditures for the fiseal year  in
the form and manner required by the state of Massachusetts.

[I have audited the accounts of the City Clerk, the Milk
Inspector, the Water department, and the Gas and Electrie
departments, found them correct, the receipts properly recorded and promptly deposited, and the expenditures approved in due form. The Tax Collector's books and emtries
have been audited so far as possible. The postings here reach
the thousands, and as each is separately checked, it takes quite
a While to complete his accounts. The report also contains a
detailed report of the expenditures in the Mavor’'s Contingent
account, Salaries account, City Indebtedness, Sinking Funds
and Tax Collector's exhibit, the bonds issued during the year
with the purpose for which they were issued, the eash on hand,
and the borrowing capacity.

There was  borrowed during the year for the
following purposes: Sidewalks Construction, Sewers
Construction, Highways Construction, Isolation Hospital, City Hall Annex, New
High School, Nonotueck Street Sehool, Elm
Street School, City Hall Sanitary, Gas and
Electric Plant Extension, Rehef Department
‘“Emergeney,’” .

Payments of the City Debt and additions to the Sinking
Funds were as follows: City Debt, Serial Bonds,  ;
City Debt from Sinking Fund, Water Debt, Serial,
$ Holyoke and Westfield Railroad Debt, Gas
and Eleetrie Plant Debt, Payments to City Debt

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
Sinking Fund, and earnings, Payments
to Water Department: Sinking Funds,  and earnings,
$ grand total payments and Sinking Fund earnings,
$ Total bonds issued, excess of payments over borrowings, The net debt is as against  at the close of the fiseal year
 This does not include the outstanding temporary loans
in anticipation of taxes, which this vear is  as against
$  year ago.

The borrowing capacity is  as against  at
the close of last vear; an increase In the amount which can
be borrowed of .

, Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL W. KENNEY,
City Auditor.

MUNICIPAL FINANCE ILLUSTRATED
, oon On Os
aa  :
e- XQ
SF, Q
a Sw
I NTCREST O£BT STATE ,
by ANO Q
Sb COUNTY PAYMENTS Yn
/) CENTS \
//
f/ SEN
/ SE \)
f  Zev ces \
| at SRARY \
\
I CITY OF HOLYOKE |
i PAYMENTS FROM RE VENUE cHARITIES i
| OF CONTS |
i \G i
| WHERE THE MONEY WENT |
SCHOOLS
‘ CENTS  es MEAL ry H
\ OLLP  ce Any, {|
‘\ Vrs TION "y
\ Lc y
. \\ G,
\\ “yb.  ,
\ Se an Y)
AS ve wncy vy
y we fo ae
ay wo
QR ,
QD F,
SX KS
SQ  —RLES
QR LOTION or LIFE
ee aeee a
The Maintenance of the Water, Gas and Electric departments is not
included in the foregoing diagram because those departments maintain themselves without any cost to the taxpayers.
As matter of fact the Water Department pays annually about 
a year net to the city in taxes, while the Gas Department, by its low rates
for lighting and power and the maintenance of certain lights at its own expense, contributes its share towards lessening the taxpayer’s burden, in
addition to which it contributed  to the appropriations for city purposes this year.
Respectfully,
D. W. KENNEY,
f City Auditor,
City of Holyoke.

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
SCHEDULE A—I.

RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE YEAR  .
Cash balances Dec. .......  ...   sec ec 
*Actual receipts during the year...............  

Total balances and receipts........... s .$ 
*Actual expenditures during the year................  
**Cash balance Dec. ............   ee) 
*Omitting duplications and service transfers.
**I Including earnings of Sinking Funds.
SCHEDULE A—II.
ACTUAL FINANCIAL RESULT OF THE OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF THE CITY FOR THE YEAR.
Revenue receipts from taxation and other sources (excluding money borrowed )............      ePeO  
Payments— Maintenance, operating expenses.............  
Excess of revenue receipts.......... ece  ees  
OUTLAYS.
Receipts—Money borrowed, premiums and outlay offsets. .$ 
Payments—Outlays (permanent work), temporary loans...  
Excess of non-revenue payments... ......c    
TEMPORARY ACCOUNTS.
Receipts—State, County, etc., taxes, refunds and transfers, 
Payments—State, County, etc., taxes, refunds and transfers,  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SCHEDULE A—III.
EXHIBIT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES GROUPED ACCORDING
TO THEIR FUNCTIONS.
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION.
eos    
| Revenue Payments ;

ee ee
TaxeS  ...        esses  ]...... .
Licenses and Permits.................  ]............
Fines and Forfeits.................. .e    |........ .
Grants and Gifts.................       |............
Privileges  ... cc     eas  /......... General Government ......................  
Protection, Life and Property............. 
Health and Sanitation .................... 
Highways and Bridges ................  
Charities Cece cette   t   es  
| Soldiers’ Benefits ............   
Education .........       eves 
Libraries ..  ... cc cc        ec esc ccec  
Recreation ....... cc   cc    enees  
PenSIONS  ...   ce      cet lenccecsenecs  
Unclassified ....... cc     ce    elec   
Public Service Enterprises................ 
Interest ....  ec ce ce     
Municipal Indebtedness ...................  
Sinking Funds .......  ...   ence cel      
Total sossses   cess  ]  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
OUTLAYS—PERMANENT WORK.

| Receipts Payments

Special Assessments ..........  !............
General Government ..........   sm   lec 
Protection, Life and Property.............]. evees  
Health and Sanitation .............    
Highways and Bridges ............e  
Education ......    cence cet  
Recreation ....   cc        recent  len ceuses  
Public Service Enterprises ..........-. 
Municipal Indebtedness ............+ -++++]   
Sinking Funds .........      erence  |]............
Total sese ese      SS 

TEMPORARY ACCOUNTS.
| Receipts Payments

Agency, Trust, Investment, etc.............| 
Refunds ....       cc cc     eens  
Transfers ...         cc cer eeseces  
Totalevesc es    

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
| Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
| Expenses Outlays
General Revenue. |
Taxes.
Current Year: :
Property .......... ece +] ]......... |e      
Polls wo... ce      wees  ]...  ...   ele   ne  
Water Dept. Taxes.........  |..  ... cc  leeee   
Previous Years:
Property ............e : ... cel  
Polls... cc       ). ...... cele     
From the State:
Corporation .............  ]...  ...  elec cence cones
Street Railway ............  ]......  [eeee 
Bank ..... cc       ,YOB. )..   lee      
Total from Taxes........|$ ]............] 
Licenses and Permits. |
Licenses. |
Liquor ..........   Te o
Amusements ............  ]. ...... elec   
Auctioneers .......... WW. |...el   ee
Carriages .........    ...  ... ew le    ee
TIQXPLeSS wo... ee ce    ]...    lee    s
Intelligence Offices ......... ae
Pawnbrokers ...............  )...  ... cele    ee
Junk wo... ce    ees  |)
Peddlers ............ .  ]... [    wees
Pool, Billiard and Bowling
Alleys ....      ce   ]..   elec ce   
Second-hand ...............  )
Milk wo...   c   ees )... ce cc lee   
Oleomargarine .............  S) ee
Undertakers ...............  
Sausage Manufacturing .... () [cS
Tar Roofers .........e |)
Itinerant Venders ..........  ]...  le 
Detective Agency .......... DOR Ut) 
Permits.
Marriages .........       ]...  ...   cele   cence
Total from Licenses and
Permits .........-.- --|  ]............| 
Fines and Forfeits.
Court wc...       ...   cwlee  
Total from Fines and
Forfeits ........c  ....    
Total forward ...........|$ |............ {| 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
RECEIPTS—Classified.
| ee
| Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
| Expenses Outlays |
 Total forward ...........| |............| 
| |
Grants and Gifts. |
From State, for Education Aid
to Industrial School......... ]...  ... cele   ce 

From County (Dog Licenses)     lew     

Gifts from Individuals:

Whiting Street Fund.......  ]...   cele  
Total from Grants and
. Gifts ...  .      ..... eens 

All Other General Revenue. |

Commercial Revenue.

Special Assessments: |

Sewer Assessments .........|..c |........ .
Sidewalk and Curbing AsSESSMENtS .. cc esvcvelens vcecs  ,A we
Total from Special AssessMENS coc     ce cde   cs  

Privileges.

Public Service ........... ].    lee      
Total from Privileges..... ......  
Total forward ...........| . 

 Ola var  Pie yy :

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified. .
| Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
| Expenses Outlays
Total forward ...........|$ ] 
Departmental.
General Government.
|
Legislative:
Aldermen—
Executive:
Mayor—
Financial:
Auditor and Auditing—
Treasurer—
|
Collector— |
|
|
Assessors— |
License Commission— )
Other Finance Officers and
Accounts— |
Other General Depts.: ;
Law—
City Clerk .........cc   er ee
General Government for- |
Ward Lo...    ees  ee
Total forward ...........| . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
| |
Departmental. |
|
General Government.
Legislative:
Aldermen—
Salary, Clerk of CommitTEES Loc      ees )...  eleeewees
Other Expenses ..........  )...  ...  lew  
Executive: |
Mavor—
Salaries and Wages (in-|........ cele    epee     ees
cluding Secretary) .....  |......   cle    eens
Other Expenses ..........  |...   elec     
Financial :
Auditor and Auditing—
Salaries and Wages.......  ........    
Other Expenses .......... Bs |
Expert Auditing .........  ]... ...   lee   
Treasurer— |
Salaries and Wages.......  }. ..... cc  lee   
Other Ixpenses .......... ertte |ec   s
Collector—
Salaries and Wages.......  |......... cele ween  
Other Expenses ..........  }.......    lecc   cc 
Assessors— 
Salaries and Wages....... Toe Ok
Other Expenses .......... yA) Oo  
License Commissioners— |
Salaries and Wages.......  ]. ....  c.   elec ce   eens
Other Expenses .......... er
Other Finance Offices and
Accounts—
Sinking Fund Commission  ]...  ...  fee      
Expenses, Bond issue..... ye  ee) |) [a
Other General Departments: |
Law:
Salaries and Wages.......  ]...  cc  lec wc eens
. Other Expenses ..........  .....  ... ccf  
City Clerk—
Salaries and Wages.......  |.......... cc]  wees
Other Expenses .......... ES! Fs bs}
; General Government forward  ... bee     

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
ns ne
Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
| Expenses Outlays
Total forward ...........|$ ] 
General Government rm ]...... sec 
City Messenger— |
Public Works— |
, |
Engineering— |
Superintendent of Buildings— |
|
Election and Registration— |
 as |
Municipal Buildings :—
City Hall Rentals...........  ]...  ... cc  lee   
} ————|
Total, General Government ).  .......  
Protection of Life and
Property.
Police Department:
Services of Officers......... Sc)
Protection Life and Prop- .
erty forward .......... SI T.O   lee  
|
Total forward ........---| . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.

. |
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward  ... ..   lec    lee cence   lece ences

General Government forward ]...    lec enc   nce
City Messenger:
Salaries and Wages.......  ]. ...  ... cc cele  
Other Expenses .......... [
Public Works:
Salaries and Wages....... TG LOT).     cele eens
Other Expenses .......... be  parr
Engineering:
Salaries and Wages....... B, |.  ...   leet  eens
Other Expenses ..........  ]...  elecence  
Superintendent of Buildings:
Salaries and Wages.......  ]...  ...  fee  cence
Other Expenses ..........  ...    lew ce ew  ee
Election and Registration:
Salaries and Wages.......  |.  ...  lec   ce  
Other Expenses ..........  ]...  ele  
|
Municipal Buildings: |
Salaries and Wages.......  ]... ... ccelec   
Other Expenses .......... CHT oS  
New Buildings ..........[e..c cs ]....... .
Total General Gov’t...... ] 
Protection of Life and
Property.
, Police Department: |
Salaries and Wages....... SSSI |)
Horse Hire .............. C)
Equipment and Repairs... ]...  
Maintenance of Building
and Grounds ...........  )...   lowe      
Other Expenses ..........  ].  ... cc  lene     
——
Protection Life and Property forward ..........]  ].......... ,
Total forward ...........| ] 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classifed.
| |
Revenue Offsets
Sources df Receipts for to Total
| Expenses Outlays
Total forward ...........| . 
| |
Protection Life and Prop-| |
erty forward .........| NS  
|
|
Tire Department: |
| |
Sale of BBG] sees  cpecen s
| !
yes |
Militia: |
|
, |
Inspection: |
|
Sealer of Weights and| |
Measures ...........-..| Oso) |) pr
| |
Inspection of Elevators...as
: |
| |
Forestry |
|
Planting and Priming |
Trees... ce    [a
|
| |
Other Protection of Life and |
Property: |
Bounty .......c s ror seseafec ne ees
——————— |
|
Total from Protection Life |
and Property ... ce BLOM AB s s| 
Total forward .........-| . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.

Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward ...........| | 
Protection Life and Property forward ..........]  ]............
Fire Department: ;

Salaries and Wages.......  )...   cc cele    eaee
Horses and Care of Same  ]...  ... cc  lee eens
Equipment and Repairs...  |........ 
Hydrant Service ......... B,TT |. oc    fee     ” .
Fuel and Light........... ]...    lace cence  
Maintenance of Buildings

and Grounds ........... G,A G. )..   cc   lee  eens

New Buildings ........... [      ].  

Other Lixpenses .......... eS.  
Militia:

ArMOries ......ece    

Rifle Ranges ........... ae rr
Inspection:

Inspection of Buildings...  |.....  ele    ees
Inspection of Wires......  ]... ce   le    nee
Inspection of Elevators... aS)  fr
Sealing of Weights and

Measures ......... Ps Wy ds es  
Forestrv:
Insect Pest Extermination oD od
Planting and Trimming
Trees .....     Oo cc ccafe ecu 
Forest Fires ........... So  )
Other Protection of Life and
Property:

Bounties ........  Us (a

Total, Protection of Life
and Property ..........]  
 Total forward ...........| | 

* REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
, Expenses Outlays ,
Total forward ..........|$ ] 
Health and Sanitation.
Health: |
Contagious Diseases ..... RS  
Tuberculosis ............. CR) [i
Miscellaneous ............ eel en
pf |
| |
Inspection: |
Sanitation :
Sewers and Sewage Dis. posal .......      BGOB.  ... e lee    
Sewer Construction ......].......ee ]........ |
Total Health and Sanita- |
tiON vee c   
Total forward ...........|$ . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
. PAYMENTS—Classified.
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
| |
Total forward ...........|  ] 
|
Health and Sanitation.
Health:
General Administration .. ]...   lee  ence  
Contagious Diseases ..... )......... Tuberculusis .............  |.  ...  le ce   
Vital Statistics ..........  ]... ...  ...leew  
Milk Station ............  ]...  ...  cele     
Bacteriologist ............  ]... .. cc  leeee   ees
Sanitary Inspector ....... pa To sD  
Plumbing Inspector ......  ]...  cc  le     
Inspection:
Inspection of School Chil- |
dren wo... cc     PAS se
Inspection of Animals.... ]
Inspection of Meat and
Provisions ......... LOOT. ].... cc  lee   
Inspection of Milk and
Vinegar ...      Se a!  
Sanitation:
Sewer Maintenance  and
Operation ........... T, |.  ...   leeween wees
Sewer Construction ......].....  SIS AAT... 
Retuse and Garbage Dis- |
posal ..... ee  |.  ...   cle     es
Street Cleaning .......... PO, occ. lee   wees
Total, Health and Sanitation ........    ee] ) 
Total forward .........'..| ] 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified. |
|
Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
Expenses Outlays |
Total forward ...........|$ ] 
Highways. |
General .......  PIT oe  fewer    s
COMstructiON wo...       leew  eens ]...  ... cc  
Sidewalks and Curbing ......  |.. cc  e eens
Sprinkling |
Water ......      PS ec) ,
Total, Highways and
Bridges .........    
Charities.
City Farm:
Sale of Produce and Stock nS SO  ]
Board .......       |.  ...  cle eens
Reimbursements for Relief |
Given: I
Krom Other Cities and|  |
TOWNS .....     SC See  
From the State........... DGOLSG) oo.  ele    
Reimbursements for Mothers’
Aid:
From the State..........  )...  ... cc cele    
Total, Charities ......... ........ 
Total forward ...........[$ ] 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
| |
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
|  Total forward ......-....| ] 
Highways.
General Administration ...... )...  ... cc  lec   es
General Highway Expenditures  |....  ... cele    wee
Construction .......   ce lececcs ees ...... .. .
Sidewalks and Curbing.......  |......   
Snow and Ice Removal.......  ]...  lee     
Sprinkling:
Water ....   cc        ]... ce   lecet  
Other .........      ele we   
Lighting ............     |...   ce lee  s
Other Expenses:

; Signs, Guide Boards, etc.  ]... cc   lee  
Fountains, etc. ...........  ]...  ... ce lee   wees
Total for Highways ..... ] 

Charities.

General Administration ...... )...  ...   lee      
City Farm .........    ]...  ... eel     
Outside Relief by City........  )...  elec   
Relief Given by Other Cities..  )... eel   ce 
Mothers’ Aid:

Relief Given by City......  )....  ... cele  
Whiting Street Fund.........  ]........  cc Pe   

Total for Charities.......| ]............] 

Total forward ...........| ] 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
| Expenses Outlays
 Total forward ...........| . 
| |
Soldiers’ Benefits. |
State Aidon foos n
Military Aid porerttees |  PBOOl.    weal ec cecces
| |
Soldiers’ Burials re ree re ee
Soldiers’ Relief pereessece|  vv rees|ereeserecens
. Total, Soldiers’ ence. ..... 
| |
|
Schools. |
|
Tuition and Transportation, |
State Wards ........... +. ane vee    s
Other Tuition Seen BOOK  vs reseesleceser ce:
Sale of Text Books and Sup-| |
plies cress ss ccy el a
Miscellaneous erteerese eg Seat ae
Sale of Old School....  ... [    |.......... |
| |
Totals, Schools ..........|  
| |
|
| |
Libraries.  |
Total forward .........../ . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
. |
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward ...........| ] 
Soldiers’ Benefits. |
General Administration: |
State Aid ............ ]...  ...        
Military Aid ............  )...    lec    ces
Soldiers’ Relief ..........  }.......... cc [ wee  
Soldiers’ Burials .........]..     lec    es elec sees encers
Total for Soldiers’ BeneFitS . eces ]......  
Schools. |
General Expenses |
Administrative Salaries .. ]...  c.   ele ences
Other General Salaries... Oe |
Other General Expenses.. ok rr
Teachers’ Salaries ........... Wak  d
Text Books and Supplies.....|  ]... ..   lew    
Tuition ......         ]...   [   es
Transportation ....... ....... arte ene Cc
Support of Truants.......... |
Janitors’ Services ............ DAs eo. dr
Fuel and Light .............. oe Oy i
Maintenance of Buildings and
Grounds .........   scenes ...  feewee wees
New Buildings ........... [     VAT.T oe  
Furniture and Furnishings....  |......... 
Rent .....        eens  ]...  ...  lee   
Lunches .........e.     ees iY )
Other Expenses ..............rr
Total for Schools........] ] 
Libraries. |
|
Appropriation ..........-. ...  ...  ee   
Total for Libraries.......   
|
Total forward ...........| . 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
ns ns
Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
Expenses Outlays
Total forward ...........]$ ] 
|
Recreation.
Parks and Garbo ]...  cele    ees
Playgrounds and Gymnasia...|....... ele eceleu ese
Bathhouses .......   cc   elec cence nc   cn cence     een 
Celebrations and EntertainMENS Lc.         eo st ces
Total, Recreation sete] pasa ne 
| !
| |
Pensions.
Unclassified. |
Total forward ...........|$ . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward ...........|$ | 
Recreation. |
General Administration:
Salaries and Wages....... ]. .....  ce lee   ee
Other Expenses .......... CE  
Parks and Gardens:
Salaries and Wages.......  |.  ... cclec   
Improvements and AdditiONs  ...       [ ecec  |......... .
Other Expenses .......... ...  lee    ees
Playgrounds and Gymnasia:
Salaries and Wages.......  ]...  ...  leewee eens ,
Improvements and Addi  |......... ..
Other Expenses ..........  ]. .....   lec   cc s
Bathhouses :
Salaries and Wages ...... SB ..     lee cennee
Other F:xpenses ..........       lec  ce  s
Celebrations and Entertainments :
Fourth of July........... pa  
All Other ...............  ]...     le  econ  
Total for Recreation.....  
Pensions.
Retirements made from:
Police Department ....... ]...  fe   wee  
Fire Department ......... De SRD le
Gratuity, Fire Department....  ]...    elec ec  eens :
Total for Pensions....... ]....... 
Unclassified.
|
Damages to Persons and Personal Property ............- |.....  ... ce lew  
Memorial Day ...............  ...  fee   
Payments not Recorded Under
Previous Classification ..... SsYe
 Total for Unclassified....|  ]............| 
Total forward ...........| . 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
| |
Revenue Offsets
Sources of Receipts for to Total
| Expenses Outlays
 Total forward ..........-| . 
Public Service Enterprises. |
|
Electric:
Income from Sale of Light
and Power .............]  ... cc   cc ees
Miscellaneous ............  ].  ...  elec     
Gas:
Income from Sale of Gas VO GB.BL]. cc fee  nee
Sale of By-products (Ammonia, coke, tar, etc.)... ABSTLTOl   ce elec ees
Miscellaneous ...........-  |)
- Water:
Income, Sale of Water.... UO,TIG SS)...    cele    ees
Miscellaneous ............ )... ee
Interest on Bank Deposits SOB OR Lecce en  veeeeaee
|
|
Total, Public Service En- |
terprises ......... $ 
| ;
Total forward .........../$ . 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
|
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward ...........|$ | 
|  
Public Service Enterprises. |
Electric: |
Maintenance and Operation| |............[e.s  
; Construction .........  lace  cere ......... .
Interest Payments ........ Oe  |
Debt Payments ..........  ]... ..  ...  lee      
|
Gas: |
Maintenance and Operation  ]...  ... elec  eens
Construction .......   cele    ees [......... .
Interest Payments ........  ek
Debt Payments ...........  )...  ...  few   
Expenses, Issue of Bonds  |.....   leeee    
Water:
Maintenance and Operation  ]...  ...   fee    
Construction ........cc  lee     ........ Taxes to City of Holyoke QW  OBAUT occ    le ecs
Interest Payments ........  ]...  leew  ees
Debt Payments ...........  )...         ewes
Transfer to Sinking Fund  )...  ... lee ee
Total for Public Service
Enterprises ............|  ] 
Total forward ...........| . 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
| Revenue |
Sources of Receipts for Indebtedness Total
Expenses
Total forward ...........[ . 
Interest. |
On Deposits ............e BBGC.S |.. ce   le 
On Deferred Taxes .......... TjO oc     wee lec    
On Invested Funds ..........  |......  ... ce lee    
On Sinking Funds ...........  ]...  ...  fewee  s
Total from Interest...... ]. ...... 
Municipal Indebtedness.

Loans in Anticipation of Taxes|............] |............
Loans for General Purposes...|............  |..........-Loans for Public Service Enot |......... .
Premiums ..........c ].    lee   rece ees

Total, Municipal IndebtedNESS ce e       ees . 
Total forward ...........| , 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
, |
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward ...........| . 
Interest.
On Loans in Anticipation of
Revenue .........       ... cc ecwlee     eens
On Loans for General Purposes; occ  elec      
On Loans for Public Service
Enterprises ........   ]. .... lec   ences
On High Street Engine House
Site cc...    eens ZASZ.OO). ee lew newer eens
Total for Interest........] ]............ 
Municipal Indebtedness. |
| .
Loans in Anticipation of Taxes  eel |......... Bonds from Sinking Funds...|...........-.  |.........-.Bonds from Revenue:
General .........s| ]....  ... ele rece ween  
Public Service Enterprises  |.....   lee  s
Total for Municipal In- |
debtedness .........+--   
— Total forward ...........| , 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
Revenue Non- |
Sources of Receipts for Revenue Total
Expenses
| Total forward ...........| , 
Sinking Funds. |
|
From Commissioners to Mee |
Loans for General Purposes|............] |............
Total, Sinking Funds..... s| 
| |
Totals .............  SSH  TH
a 
| Temporary
{| Accounts
a
J
Agency, Trust and Investment Transactions.
Agency:
Taxes—State ......           }. ...... Non-resident Bank .............  ......... County  ... ee      ......  Liquor Licenses Collected for the State..  ]............
Teachers’ Retirement Fund .............  ......... Trust: .
Perpetual Care Funds ............. BB.BB]     ees
Tailings ... cc        ees Dy is)
Total from Agency, Trust and Invest- ee
. ment Transactions ........ .    
Total forward ......    t    ss 
|

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
Objects of Payments Expenses Outlays Total
Total forward ...........| , .
|
Sinking Funds.
To Commissioners for Debt

Requirements |
Fror: Taxes, Earnings, etc.| |......... [..    
Total for Sinking Funds.

Totals ..................| , ]
Temporary
Accounts
a oe  .
| |
Agency, Trust and Investinent Transac-|
tions. |
{
|
Agency: |
Taxes—State co.cc       nace ee
Non-resident Bank .............  ]... .
County ..    ce  ences  ]... cae
Liquor Licenses Remitted to the State...  ]......... .
Teachers’ Retirement Fund .............  |...... Trust:

Perpetual Care Funds ............... BB.BBl Lc   
Tailings ......    ce        a)
Total Agency, Trust and Investment

Transactions ........  s| 
Total forward ......     s wee ven  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
RECEIPTS—Classified.
rn coe
: Temporary
Accounts
Sources of Receipts and Total
Cash
Balances
Total forward...    cence     cette    
Refunds. |
|
TAaxeS occ   cect   ence   s }............
Licenses ........         ].......... .
Special Assessments .......... eces  ........ .
General Departments .................  ]...  ... e
Public Service Enterprises ................  ]............
Interest Accrued ............ cc      |......... Total Refunds ...........  ...   
Transfers.
To Interest Water Debt from Water Dept. |............
To Water Debt from Water Dept.........  ]............
To City Appropriation from Gas Electric  }............
To Relief Dept.—Canceled Warrant.......  ]............
Total Transfers ...........cce  cues 
Grand Total Receipts Le cecv t sesce 
|
Balances.

Cash on Hand, Beginning of Year—City Treasurer......| 
Cash on Hand, Beginning of Year—Water Department..  
Grand Total Receipts and Cash on Hand......... 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
PAYMENTS—Classified.
Temporary
Accounts
Objects of Payments and Total
Cash
Balances
Total forward ....  nevecsecessee| 
Refunds.
TAax€S co.cc cc         .......... .
LICENSES  ...    cc etc ect   eens  |......... .
Special Assessments .............   )............
General Departments ...............   ]... ....  
Public Service Enterprises ................  ]............
Interest Accrued .........     ees  |.......... .
Total Refunds ...............-.      
Transfers.
Departmental :

From Water Dept. to Interest Water Debt! ]............
From Water Dept. to Water Debt........  }............

From Gas Electric Receipts to City
Appropriation ........cc ese  en   )............
From Relief Dept., Cancelled Warrant...  |......... 
Total Transfers ......... we   
Grand Total Payments .............. ce  ecces 

Balances.

Cash on Hand, End of Year—City Treasurer...........| 
Cash on Hand, End of Year—Water Department........  
Earnings, Sinking Fund ............  seer eer   Grand Total Payments ‘and Cash on Hand..........| 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
EXPENDITURES—MAYOR’S CONTINGENT UNCLASSIFIED ACCOUNT.

Green Bennett, Attys., claim (John Farrell) ... 
A. L. Green, legal services (City vs. Whiting)....  
Thomas J. O’Connor, Atty., claim (professional

SETVICES)  cc     eens  
T. J. Lynch, Atty., claim (Casper Ranger Construction Co.)...........       
F. J. O’Neill, Atty., claim (William J. Bergman)  
QO. O. Lamontagne, Atty., claim (O. Moison) ....  
O. O. Lamontagne, Atty., claim (Eva Perier) .... .
Nellie Cooney, claim (personal injuries) ........  
Richard Murphy, claim, (personal injuries) ....  
Melida Meunier, elaim (personal injuries) ......  
Joseph Flynn, claim (personal injuries) ........  
John J. Cotter, claim ......  ...ee  
Walter C. Clark, claim ...........     
Treasurer Kilpatrick Post No.  G. A. R.......  
Treasurer Kilpatrick Post No.  G. A. R. (MemoYlal Day)  ...     ene  
Edwin A. Whiting, Veteran Firemen’s Association,  
Nelson A. Miles Camp No.  Sons of Veterans.  
H. C. Smith, treasurer Independence Day AssociaC  
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, riprapping river

bank  ...       eens  
Life Saving Device Co., lhungmotor for fire departMeNt co.cc cc     ee    
Stansfield Son, bond, treasurer sinking fund...  
Bureau of Department Reports, membership fees

(City Solicitor) .......           
Thomas F. Pedrick, subseription to Legislative Bulletin coc ce          
Daniel M. Long, witness fee .............. 
John Stalker, witness fee...  ...      
Albert Archambault, witness fee ........... -.  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
John P. Bleasius, witness fee ..................  
Fred Laduke, services as sheriff ..............  
Carl A. Allen, M. D., professional services (investigating committee) .............    
Gallivan Brothers, flowers (Chief Lynch’s funeral  
J. F. Dorman Co., dog checks .................  
Esther Kilbride, stenographie services ((investigating committee) ............  c.    
Irene F. Cleary, stenographie services (Charter

hearing) .........cc       
Katherine Bowler stenographiec services (investigating committee) ............. ce   
Walter W. Eaton Co., expert auditing ........  
Western Union Tel. Co., time service and  teleQTAMS  ...     ce      ees  
New England Tel. Tel. Co., telephone and tolls.  
Town of Easthampton, labor at forest fires ......  
Holyoke Street Railway Co., labor at forest fires.  
Payrolls (C. J. Haley, Warden), fighting forest

FITCS    t     
Millane Brothers, bicarbonate of soda (forest fires),  
Green, the druggist, cigars ..............  
Marble Hall Hotel, lunches, license committee

(strike day) ....... cc     ee eens ;
Harry Gordon, photography ...............- --  
Palace Auto Garage, auto hire .................  
M. J. Laporte, auto hire ..............-.  
C. Blais Co., auto hire ...................  
L. A. Dubernet, framing picture for library .....  
Blair Sign Co., signs .........  ... ce        
E. J. Lee Awning Co., decorating City Hall .....  
Special Aldermanic Committee, traveling expenses,  
Thomas C. Maher, traveling expenses ..........  
Charles U. Roy, traveling expenses (re fire alarm),  .
William E. Farrell, traveling expenses .........  
John H. Woods, traveling expenses ............  
T. J. MacCarthy, traveling expenses ............  

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
D. W. Kenney, traveling expenses, Amherst and
Boston  ...          
Transcript Publishing Co., printing and advertisTranscript Publishing Co., Municipal Register...  
Telegram Publishing Co., printing and advertising,  
Democrat Publishing Co., advertising ..........  
Mansir Printing Co., printing ................  
Lehmann’s Publishing House, publishing annual
' io)  Fa  
La Justice Publishing Co., publishing annual report and advertising .................  
New England Rundschau, advertising and publishIng annual report ..............     
Free Press Pub. Printing Co., advertising and
publishing annual report .................  
Artisan Publishing Co., advertising and publishing
annual report ..........     teens  
Anker Printing Co., printing .................  
Eureka Ruling and Binding Co., printing ......  
M. J. Dovle Printing Co., printing .............  
Holyoke Multigraphic Workshop, multigraphing, &. 
S. J. Hobbs, Jr., bounty, killing wild cat ........  
Morris Garber, refund, junk license ............  
Sisters of Providence, rebate (City Hall rental),  
John F. Sheehan, express ............ 
City Hall Fund, rebate, rental ................  
John F. Shea, refund, sewer assessment,  ....  
John B. Shea, hack hire ..............      
John A. Cronin, services as secretary to Mavor..  
Total expenditures .............. +---- 
Total appropriation and receipts ..........  
Unexpended balance, transferred to general
TOECOIPTS  ...    eens 

 REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  

SUNDRY SALARIES. ,
John H. Woods, Mayor ....................... 
John A. Cronin, Mayor’s Secretary ............  
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk ..................  
Daniel J. Hartnett, Assistant City Clerk ........  
Mrs. Josephine F.. Kane, clerk, City Clerk ......  
Pierre Bonvouloir, City Treasurer ............  
Liliane Bonvouloir, cashier and stenographer, City

TreaSurer .....  ...     tenet daw    
Amedee J. Bourque, bookkeeper, City Treasurer ..  
Julien E. Goddu, clerk, City Treasurer .........  
Daniel W. Kenney, City Auditor ..............  
Frances KE. Kidnay, clerk, City Auditor .........  
Mary E. Welch, clerk, City Auditor ............  
James M. Kennedy, Tax Collector .............  
Frank A. McCabe, Deputy Tax Collector ........  
Clara M. Callahan, clerk, Tax Collector .........  
Catherine Lee, clerical work, Tax Collector ...... |
Catherine Casey, clerical work, Tax Collector ....  
Liliane Bonvouloir, clerical work, Tax Collector ..  
Thomas C. Maher, City Solicitor ..............  
James J. Kirkpatrick, stenographer, City Solici cc  
Joseph Goddu, Sealer Weights and Measures....  
Patrick J. Wall, helper, Sealer Weights and MeasULOS Loc         ween  
Arthur E. Connor, helper, Sealer Weights and

Measures .........       
Lionel Goddu, helper, Sealer Weights and MeasJohn C. Doran, Clerk of Committees ...........  
David C. Downing, Chairman License Commission,  
George J. White, License Commisisoner ........  
Thomas J. O’Connor, License Commissioner ....  
Frederick Kilian, clerk, License Commission ..... )
A. Judson Rand, caretaker City Hall elock..... |

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
William T. Walsh, City Messenger ............  
Jeremiah Scannell, janitor City Hall .......... 
Martin Fitzgerald, fireman and laborer, City Hall,  
Thomas Flahive, fireman, City Hall ............  
Mary Callahan, helper, janitor, City Hall ......  
John F. Sheehan, Registrar of Voters ..........  
James J. Dunn, Registrar of Voters ............  
Thomas Stansfield, Registrar of Voters ........  
A. J. Therrien, Registrar of Voters ............  
J. A. Paradis, Registrar of Voters ............  
Total .....  ...  eeeeee) 

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
CITY EXEMPTED DEBT, LONG TERM LOANS,
Bonds, years, School, Due July 
Bonds,  years,  School, Due Mch.  
Total City Debt met by Sinking Funds, 
Sinking Funds, City Debt, Nov.  
Net Exempted Debt, Long Term Bonds, 
EXEMPTED DEBT, SERIAL LOANS.
Bonds, years, Sc. Mune. Bldg. ($  an‘ly*), Due June 
CITY UNEXEMPTED DEBT, SERIAL LOANS.
Bonds, years, School ($  annually), Due May 
“  Sewers ($  annually), “* May  
* “*  School ($  annually), ** Sept.  
“  +“ Municipal ($  annually), ** Aug.  
“ Sewer ($  annually), *“ Aug.  $f Park ($  annually), ** Apr.  
“  Municipal ($  ann'ly to  ,
$  ann’ly to  ), “* Apr.  
“  Municipal ($  ann’ly to  ,
$  ann’ly to  ), “* Apr.  
“  #+‘‘* “™ School ($  annually), Apr.  
“  *f Municipal ($  annually), “Apr.  
“  School ($  annuall), “Apr.  
“ Sewer ($  annually), “Apr.  
““ Sewer ($  annually), ‘May 
“ Park ($  annually). “May 
“  Municipal ($  annually), *“ Mch.  
“  Sewers ($  annually), Mech.  
“ Parks ($  annually), Mch.  
* Municipal ($  ann'ly to  ,
$  ann’ly to  ), July  
“  School ($  annually), Sept.  
* Smiths Ferry ($  ann’ly to  ,
$  ann’ly to  ), ‘* May  
“ School ($  ann’ly), ** May  
“  Municipal ($  ann’ly), ** May  
“  Parks ($  annually), May  
“  “* Municipal ($  annually), Apr.  
“  *€  School ($  annually), ** Apr.  
“  Municipal ($  annually), Oct.  
“  Municipal ($  annually), June  
“ Municipal ($  annually),  June 
“  “™ Playgrounds ($  annually), Noy.  
“ Municipal ($  annually),* ‘* June”  
* Sidewalks ($  annually), June  
“  ‘“* Highways ($ ),* June  
“  Building ($  ann’ly to  ),
$  to  ), ** Meh.  
“  Highways ($  annually), Meh,  
“  Sewer ($  annually), Mech.  
“* Sidewalk ($  annually)* Meh.  
“ Building ($  annually) *, Julv  
“  days Relief Emergency, “June  
Total Unexempted Serial Loans, 
Total Net City Debt, 
"Payments increase periodically.

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
GAS AND ELECTRIC EXEMPTED DEBT, SERIAL LOANS.

Bonds, years, G. E. Light ($  annually), Due Dec. 
“ ‘“ G. E. Light ($  annually), ‘* Nov. §, 
“  G. E. Light ($  annually), ‘“ Apr.  
“  G. E. Light ($  annually), Sept.  
“ *— EG. EL Light ($  annually), ‘“ Apr. 
“  “* “G. E. Light ($  annually),* ‘“ Apr.  
“ ae GG. OE. Light ($  annually), ‘“* Apr. 
“ G, E. Light ($  annually),* ‘Sf Mch.  
“ UG. EL Light ($  annually),* ‘“ Feb. 
“ G, E. Light ($  annually), “May 
“  G. E. Light ($  annually), “Nov. 

Total Gas and Electric Plant Debt, 
WATER DEBT, EXEMPTED, LONG TERM AND SERIAL LOANS.
Bonds, years, per cent, Water, Due Jan. 
Bonds, years, per cent, Water, Due July  

Total Water Debt, met by Sinking Funds, 

Sinking Fund, Water Debt, Nov.  

$ 

Bonds, years, per cent, Water (Serial), Due July  

Total Net Water Debt, 
HOLYOKE AND WESTFIELD R. R. DEBT, EXEMPTED SERIAL LOANS.

Bonds, years, per cent, H. W. R. R. Stock,

($  annually),” Due July 

*Payments increase periodically.

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
DEBT RECAPITULATION. |
Gross City Debt ....... cc         ce  
“ Gas and Electric Plant Debt......................  
“Water Debt ........    cec  
‘ Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Debt................  
Total Gross Debt, all sources, Nov. ... .$ 
SINKING FUNDS.
Sinking Funds, City Debt.............. .... 
Sinking Funds, Water Debt.................  
Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Stock, earning
  guaranteed perpetually ............ .
$ 
Total Net Debt, all sources, Nov. ...... 
ASSETS.
Water Works (based on Construction Account only) bene   cence  se es GL, 
Gas and Electric Plant ................- ...  
All other City Buildings, Land and Parks...  
Holyoke and Westfield R. R. Stock (market
value based on annual dividend
guaranteed perpetually) ...............  
——  
Excess of Assets over Liabilities.............. 

 REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
SERIAL BONDS ISSUED,  .
  .
Mch. Trans. to Sidewalks, per Const.,  Mch.  Building Bonds, to  
“ “Sewers, per Const., Highway Bonds, to 
“.  Vighways, per Const.,  Sewer Bonds, to 
“ —“ Tsolation Hospital, Sidewalk Ronds, to 
a ** Mun, and Police Bld., l’remium,  
" “New High School,  Accrued Interest,  
“ “* Nonotuck St. School, \ug. Building Bonds, to 
“ “Premium Mun. Bonds, ““ Premium,  
“  Interest City Debt,  Interest Accrued,  
Aug.  ** Isolation Elospital, Nov.  Relief Emergency, 
“ “Elm St. School Add.,  G. E. Bonds, to 
“ “City Hall Sanitary, Premium,  
Nov.  “Relief,  Interest Accrued,  
“ “G. E. Extensions,  
“ “Premium Acct.,  
. co “* Interest,  
$  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
eccenarworten mo ate SOD er TKS. io) fon)
St SReerennNen MAT tate SoS wo og
MNENESGNS NH evsstrr ener daestes é
tw Ae Ri Lees WI Rw TIS TB nee rl Med Ey BO el See 
c EN Ook mi Oo SMe RSM  ol
 w.atew  nN ve) a]
zc ae rRs ae ZS [x
S nN an 
[ss] Sg
  me
pay VA
  a
 or
e  rnweamrmrertrteoee tar arzurveaescr nnrainmentscste rt onreanntevrrs ae
Cte twrwyreonenme Zest esenmrwrmrecstreravesrtrsrauwrerset cen |”
Ste srsiter nor cec xe cree sruinrsscovrvrenmac nse gre isernwernw |] os
Amst we LK ard CE CE? SEL MOTE.  wits SD  Get TPie op yy
ee oconas mt. te‘all eel) ots  arn &
| le Ie) tee CD on!  os t- DH es
® be Sod or t
dp) -—-s oon ee
( 
a os f+ ss eo wr
Z, Po en Senenee oe  aed
ia ino aa oe onee
fx) SraBazarnnrarmnmrar eanrnrnacreceaansesesarzaanananaecsr sa
Cl ne aeoe  oe coon oon Oe oe  oe oe oeoe edoe oe el oe oe oe oe oe ed |
on
ST?
  Bitisttissiresrst *
vs  
pr bed o
fae fs SSS  ts fs  t: rr ae 
c  wr o- Ge
fx SL Si  
a a
 LX wen xu ve
:  *
fx) Stt rirt: ce eof:sr:  es uc
nM wz  os  
Ql.
Z, wo
eeeeeeay
owwrie we ewe ow ew te we we se Oe ew ewe eoee HT Cee He eo oeee he Oe UF;
qc:
fo}
 ertroeoarrwse Ga Een CY ENwWO wf SCCSeKnrewn COD GQ nw ar
CLO aHKAMSLNEL Cen mt  te Lx Von oe Eee Dal Pa on] Coal oc Hits (Sr)
MMNewsoek eg SMS HER CSE KD BN HSCaAMNMEWD FER TST Sere S
F wWAMmMMAWMSH Sal IBM LO ™N Re Lite ht cs wes ao
je wasn OF TH Sat Ne) Tom So mee het Ci 
O LY Yo Nn fC ws BID  
a in  tt t
an  om]
S  oewe  os   oe  e@ waom *
Sct cn cenaSID TE we me Bre +e  
th GeRancaarn ant EG  eG SFZarSCR  DF aa
ica] CRE on ell oe eel el ol eel oe rt  et et em eo ey  
!   wo
  We  Mo ssfsrc  ww we ew Vinene Si KH
ee vw ere  eve we LD) po Bam
a cv) OB “oS
Y Si ee. a,
be  a: 
a ns ae  Zz zs
cree tepei WG Si Pao)
-  FF mn tvs
Vi zz e-w ewe we ew ow  be Se ent
 ame gh re iw) z- rere re Se rs) vy so
  eR  ev oY vo 
o) ore to NY  we OC Ens
 GO xs Ct se ewe Ss
 “i om een ae
 ssrtrr os te FP tts eo   ss sls .
Sg yt eh mo -Zoe Peneses 
ae)  (v) [w) (o}
 co am  ws  OC Z

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
CASH ACCOUNT, CITY TREASURER.

 

Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Payments to date, 
Nov.  .—Receipts to date, ““ Balance,  
Refund,  
$  
CASH ACCOUNT, WATER DEPARTMENT. .

 

Dec.  .—Cash on hand,  Nov.  .—Payments to date, 
Nov.  .—Receipts, Balance,  
$  
LOANS, TEMPORARY.

 
Nov.  .—Loans paid to date,  Dec.  .—RBalance, 

 
“ Outstanding, Nov.  .—Loans to date,  
$  

REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR  
BORROWING CAPACITY, DECEMBER .
VALUATIONS FOR  .
, Net
Valuation Abatements Valuations
  ....... 
  .......  
  .......  
$ 
Average net valuation for  and  :- —$ .
LIMIT OF MUNICIPAL INDEBTEDNESS.
  of  ............... 
Entire city debt ................... 
Less exempted debt ................  
Debt not exempted ................ 
Unexempted debt, serial, provided for
by annual payments ...........  
Borrowing capacity, December 

  REPORT OF CITY AUDITOR
ANNUAL DEBT STATEMENT.

The following table shows the net debt at the close of
each municipal year, beginning with  
Year Net Debt Increase Decrease
  .......... ..........  ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........  ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........   ..........   ..... ....   ..........  

*Caused by purchase of Gas Electrie plant.

Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL W. KENNEY,
: City Auditor. —

Report of Board of Assessors
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:
GENTLEMEN: The Board of Assessor's respectfully sub: mit the following report. for the vear  :
Appropriation ............      
EXPENDITURES.
Assessors’ salaries ............... .. 
Assistant Assessor’s salary ............  
Clerks  ...  ...     es  
Printing street lists, ete................  
Books, stationery, ete.............  
Traveling expenses, Boston and Springfield...  ce       
Assistants taking polls ................ Advertising ........... c 
Postage ........          
Team hire ........  ...   ees  
Street car travel ....... ...      
Card index ........      Miseellaneous .................  ce 
———— 
AMOUNT RAISED BY TAXATION AND PURPOSE FOR
WHICH SAME IS RAISED.
City of Holyoke’s portion of state tax of
$ ... ..          State highway tax .........       

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS
City of. Holvoke’s portion of county tax of

$  .....  ...    
City appropriation to be raised by taxation ....  

Total amount ordered raised ............. 
Overlay on above amount ............. 
Total amount raised by taxation for above

named requirements ..............- +-. 
In addition to above amounts we assess upon

bank stock of local National Banks not

owned by residents of the city of Holyoke,

a tax which is collected by the Collector of

Taxes and paid to the State Treasurer

amounting tO .........       
Making the total amount of the Collector of

taxes Warrant ...........       ee) 

TABLE SHOWING POLLS AND PROPERTY UPON
WHICH TAX IS LEVIED WITH VALUATION.
Valuation Tax

Real estate ..................--  
Personal estate not including |

bank stock .............. 
Stock in local National Banks

owned by residents of HolC  
Polls at  each ....  

Total ................  
In addition to above stock in

local National Banks owned

by non-residents .........  

Total ............ +-  

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
THE VALUATION OF REAL ESTATE IS DIVIDED AS
FOLLOWS:
Value of land ............... 
Value of buildings .......... 

Total value of real estate, ————————  

The inerease in valuation over is as follows:
Personal estate ..............  
Real estate ...........  

Total increase ........... ————————  

The tax rate was fixed at  per thousand of the valuation on all property subject to taxation. As shown by a
foregoing table the total valuation upon which taxes were assessed for meeting the appropriations made by the Mayor and
Board of Aldermen, the county and state tax and overlaying
was .

Total amount of taxes assessed for the year for
state, county and city purposes, not including non-resident
bank tax:

General tax levy made by the Assessors as of

April  ..................  
Additional assessment made on polls at

$  each .....  ...      
Additional assessments on property made December  on  .........  
Commutation tax assessed to Hol. St. Ry. Co.,  

$  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS ;
ABATEMENTS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .

On tax levy of  ...  
On tax levy of ......................    
On tax levy of .......  ...   
On tax levy of ........... ... ...... ... ..  
On tax levy of ........... .. .... ... ..  
On tax levy of ...........................  
On tax levy of ...........................  
On tax levy of ...........................  
On tax levy of ...........................  
$ 
PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.

Houses of religious worship ................ 
Benevolent and charitable societies ..........  
Literary societies  ...       
Temperance societieS ............       

Of soldiers and sailors and wives and widows of

soldiers and sailors who served in the War
of Rebellion ..........  ...    
Total value of exempted property ....... 

| STATISTICS.

Number of property polls ...............  
Number of single polls ......................-..  
Number of supplementary polls ..................  
Number of property owners ..............--- --+-  
Number of horses .............   ece ees  
Number of COWS .........      teens aol
Number of neat cattle other than cows ............  
Number of swine ........        eens 
Number of fowl ........ ...      ees by  

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
TAX RATE PER THOUSAND DIVIDED.
State, per thousand ............. ee ees) 
County, per thousand ...........     
. CHV Loc    ncec  
Total tax rate per thousand ..................  |
VALUATION, INCLUDING OMITTED ASSESSMENTS
AND TAX RATE.
 Real estate .......  
Personal estate ....  
. ——————. Real estate ......  
Personal estate ....  
————— Real estate ......  
Personal estate ....  
—————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
———————  |
 Real estate ......  
Personal estate ...  
————————. Real estate ......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ....  
———— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
. —————— 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS
 Real estate ......  
Personal estate ....  
—————— Real estate ......  
Personal estate ...  
———— )Ss Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate ......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate ......  
Personal estate ...  
: ——— Real estate.......  
Personal estate ...  
—————— Real estate.......  
Personal estate ...  
————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ... 
—————. Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
—————  Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
, ————— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ....  
———— Real estate .......  
Personal estate ...  
——————. 


