MUNIGIPAL..REGISTER eo sree
. OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE yn...
: FOR  
Containing the Mayor’s Address
City Government Roster
Annual Reports
Etc.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN
CARIAFSS
SED
 i
B  Dup,  
OSES D. of D.
SEES
MANSIR PRINTING COMPANY
HOLYOKE, MASS.
cgRD
 
a agen Wet iro in

e

ee  od   oe OOP
e
a “fee ye  
e bed e
oe oF. .@ 
e e@ @
e.* e*    
se ee
e 
. e
e. .
e,  »*-@e *
ee o. ee
es ®
e ry e
e  ?e @
ee vw 
r') e.  
ee ee
e e® ee
  eeuw  eo .e e*" eo e, *.e? .
   ?@@ fF ote we Hg”
’ eo,  “ee  po ore ene fo” Sayee $
. CePe  aeee
ee  *@ eer ef eo 
- *
Ne 
. .
‘
. \
‘ fT
\ ‘
x
‘
’
NN
,
 

|  
CONTENTS
PAGE
Mayor’s Address ny)
City Government, .  
Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen  
City Officers. .  
Election Officers.  
Report of Board of Water Commissioners  
Report of Public Schools 
Report of Vocational School.  
Report of Gas and Electric Departmeni  
Report of Playground Commissioners —.  
Report of Board of Health  
Report of City Engineer  
Report of Police Department. oo,  
Report of City Auditor. 
Report of Board of Assessors  
Report of Inspector of Animals 
Report of Park Commissioners  
Report of Fire Commissioners 
Report of Overseers of the Poor. ma)
Report of City Solicitor. ot 
Report of Sinking Fund Commiss-cnets  
Report of City Treasurer od ,
Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures.  ,
Report of Board of Public Werks. my ey
Jury List for  .  
. City Officers Since   
Ordinances ,  

a

INAUGURAL ADDRESS
OF
MAYOR
City of Holyoke, Massachusetts
KZ
el 
S SEES &S
Coe NE Sy .
AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE
CITY GOVERNMENT IN JANUARY
NINETEEN HUNDRED SIXTEEN

 |
a
‘
 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
RECEIVED
MAY  

MAYOR’S ADDRESS

Today we can make the proud boast that we have city
of over sixty thousand population.

With that boast comes realization that we have to make
suitable provisions for the welfare, education, healt and all
those things that go towards making good citizenship.

The poor and needy, too, must be provided for, and to
those who are unfortunate enough to be stricken with sickness
that properly comes under the head of Municipal Cases, we

 must, in charity and brotherly spirit, give to them all that will
make their lot more pleasant and agreeable.

Our streets and sidewalks must be kept in condition

‘ that will make our traffic safe.

Storms will come upon us, and there may be times that
the municipal authorities seem as though they were lax in
their duties, when, as matter of fact, they are doing all in
their power to clean up both streets and sidewalks.

Our parks and other recreation places must be kept up,
both in point of cleanliness and of those little things which go
far towards making them place to be sought.

Playgrounds have filled want that makes one wonder
how we ever got along without them; and to one who will
visit them when in full operation, the sight of so many thousands of happy children enjoying the pleasures of the amusements and athletic games, may well bring forth the exclamation: ‘‘That is money well spent.’’

One of the serious problems that comes to us is the clearing off of crosswalks after heavy storm, and would strongly
recommend that during the coming year the board in charge
make every effort to keep .those in such condition that no
criticism can be made. ,

\
  MAYOR'S ADDRESS

The recent storm, after which there seemed to be little, if.
any, effort on the part of the authorities to make them passa- ble, prompts me to bring the matter forth at this time. :

FINANCES.

It is not my intention to deal the question of finances
at great length at this time, preferring to let the report at
the end of the coming year be ‘‘my judge’’ and your judge.

However, do want to say at this most opportune time,
that, In my opinion, the tax rate of our city is too high and
can be made lower without in any way crippling the service
to be rendered to the citizens.

With the co-operation of your board, and the various
boards and commissions, feel quite sure that we will submit
a lower tax rate for  .

From the report of the auditor find that the net debt
of the city, exclusive of the Gas and Electric and the Watet
Department debts is ,

$ .

The net debt of the Gas and Electric Department is

$ .

The net debt of the Water Department is

$ .

A decrease in the net debt of the city of ;

$ .

A decrease in the net debt of the Water Department of

$ .

An inerease in the net debt of the Gas and Electric Department of

$ .

We still owe  on the Holyoke and Westfield
Railroad debt, and while provisions have been made for paying this off in proportionate amounts annually, it is debt
that would wish had been cleared up years ago.

It cost us for all expenses of running our city for the
past year

$ .

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  

Of this amount the schools came in for the greatest share,
as follows:

: .
This does not include the maintenance of buildings, nor does it
include the cost of heating the various school buildings.

It will be seen that we have been extremely generous with
our schools, and it must be admitted that we have received full
benefit from the money invested.

I feel sure that the School Board will work with us
towards economy and will reduce expenses wherever possible,
without in any way crippling the usefulness of that department—and most important one, too.

Next in line of cost of maintaining, comes the Board of
Public Works, and the report of the Auditor shows that this
department cost for the year,

$ 
and this amount does not include construction work.
Undoubtedly this Board will be able to reduce some of
 the expenses the coming year and help in that most important
problem of healthy growing city—a reduction in the tax
rate.

The Fire Department comes in for liberal appropriation, and the sum of  is charged up to that department for the year.

Next in line for cost of operations, comes the Relief Department, and it is credited with having expended the sum
of .

Eleven thousand, nine hundred and twelve dollars and
eight cents of this was brought on by the new law which compels city to establish ‘‘Mother’s Aid’’ fund, and while it
may seem as though this was large sum to give out, still the
good done may well cause us to say that we give towards this
worthy cause cheerfully.

The Police Department came in with sum of

$ 
as their share of the expenses of the municipality, and under
: the head of ‘‘ Police Department’’ make some recommenda  MAYOR'S ADDRESS
tions that ought to bring better results from the money expended by this department.

Under the head of the various other departments, give |
the amounts expended for their maintenance for the year and
urge all the departments to carefully go over their expenditures of the past year and eliminate all unnecessary expenditures during the coming twelve months.

There is law which makes it criminal offense for any
department to overdraw their appropriation, and call the

-attention of the various officials to this law at this time so that
there will be no complaint that they were ‘‘Ignorant of the
law,’’ for shall consider it my duty to remove from office
any official who breaks this law.

The borrowing capacity of the city at this time is

$ 
due largely to the increased valuation of the new public buildings which have been erected.
SCHOOLS.
| The ‘‘Little Red Schoolhouse’’ of our forefathers is a
thing of the past, and today we look for the most up-to-date
school buildings, coupled with the latest improved methods of
educating.

There is difference between the ‘‘Educator’’ and the
hard-headed practical business man as to whether we need all
those new ideas in our schools, but each year sees something:
new crop up, and it would take brave man indeed to attempt
to tell the educator that he was overcrowding the brain of your
child or mine, and yet have been told by several fathers that
they would prefer less in number in the studies and more in
quantity of the studies that are left.

However, the members of the School Board, like the
Mayor, are elected by the people and answerable to the people,
and as long as the people are willing to pay the taxes that are
called for by the school expenses, we should not find fault, but
should work in harmony with those in charge of the schools of
our city. ;

MAYOR 'S ADDRESS  

It would appear as though the time has come .when new
Central Grammar School building should be provided, and
with the sale of the Lawrence School building and land, and
the possible sale of the South Chestnut Street school building
and land (both buildings, as understand it, can be dispensed
with if central school is erected), sum should be realized
that will go quite ways towards paying for the new building.

The Maple street site seems the ideal location for the

building and in the near future this matter will be taken up.

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

During the past two years this Board has been kept very
busy finishing up the three new buildings that were started
in  .

Of especial interest in their report is that part which calls
attention to the necessity of making provisions for the repair
and care of the various bridges in the city. And cannot too
strongly condemn policy that would allow bridges to go to
ruin and become absolutely dangerous.

This is particularly true of the foot-bridge over Depot
Hill, and it will be absolutely necessary that steps be taken at
once towards remedying this most important connection between Depot Hill and the city proper.

The bridges over the canals are in bad shape and while
some attempt has been made towards strengthening the bridges
over the canals on Cabot street, there is still an element of
danger there that ought to be done away with.

The report of this Board. goes into detail in the matter of
bridges, and recommend that you give this careful study.

Other recommendations by this Board have elements of
good business in them that warrant our most careful consideration.

The Board has under consideration the erection of an Isolation Hospital and Public Sanitary, both of which are important and should be attended to promptly.

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS
| As plans had already been prepared for an Isolation Hospital as far back as  it seems strange that another set of
' plans should be ealled for, and this matter will call for a
thorough investigation.

Sufficient money not being available to meet the amounts
of the bids for the Isolation Hospital and the Publiv Sanitary, the Board wisely rejected all bids, and, in view of the
fact that but few days were left of the past year’s administration, it seemed just and proper that this year’s Board take
up the work and carry it through. )

I would recommend to the incoming Board of Public Works
that they start all over on these matters, and in the matter of
the Isolation Hospital give both the old and the new plans a
careful going over and adopt the one which seems the more
practical and at the same time economical of the two.

The Public Sanitary was held up owing to differences of
opinion as to its location, but there should be no such differences. It should be located where it will be the most convenient for the greater number, and the vicinity of the City
Hall property is the proper place to locate this most needed
improvement.

The eminent domain prodings in the matter of the
land upon which the High School Gymnasium was built, was
summarily settled within the past few days and at the original price set by the Holyoke Water Power Company for the
land. This is to be regretted, as believe that value of the ,
land by the courts would have resulted in the city saving many
thousands of dollars. As the matter had been in court for two
years, it would seem as though it should have been allowed to
take its proper course, or at least have been closed up at time
other than few days before the retiring of the administration of the past year.

DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

Were to voice my opinion as private citizen on the

standing of this department at the present time, it would

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  :
hardly look well in print, and have no desire to criticise except where believe criticism will have good effect.

’ have felt that the establishing of the so-called ‘‘ Vice
Squad’’ was an acknowledgment to the entire country that
our city was so overrun with vice, that it was impossible to
correct the conditions without having special detail for that
one purpose. cannot too strongly condemn the act that has. 
allowed the impression to go out that Holyoke was city where
conditions were so bad that it became necessary to have a
‘*Viee Squad.”’

As matter of fact, and from the statistics, we are one
of the most law-abiding cities in the country, and, taken as a.
whole, the people have most wholesome respect for law and
order, and will consider that in wiping out this vice squad,
that it will be statement to the world that Holyoke is city
whose people, from spirit of civic pride, will do nothing to.
east blot on the fair name of their home place.

I believe that it will be wise move on our part to legislate such measures as will place our police department in the
front rank of the state.

With five inspectors it would appear that all offenders.
against laws could be well looked after and give us the extra
men to do regular patrol duty.

A recommendation in the report of this department calls
for ten new men to be appointed, but would recommend a.
thorough investigation of the requirements of the department before placing this added burden upon the taxpayers.

The Police Signal System will also call for an investigation, and am pleased to announce that the truth regarding
this much talked of system will now be known, regardless of
whether it be good or bad.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

Although this department shows an increase in the net
debt, am quite convinced that with the coming year, and the
fact that the depression in business has gone, showing will

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS

be made that will give us renewed confidence in this our

‘*People’s Plant.”’

The plant is in excellent condition and much money has

been spent to place it there, and time will show that it has been

money well invested. It is manufacturing plant in every

sense of the word and subject to business conditions, and when

there is fall off in business of our mills using gas and electricity, there must be drop in the receipts of this department.

A reduction of ten cents per thousand cubic feet on gas
was made this year, and with return to good business conditions we may look for further reduction as promised
when the new gas making plant was installed. |

Many new gas mains have been laid, giving better service

: and this, too, will add to the efficiency of the department.

All in all, the department has made very good showing,
considering the many disadvantages it labored unde: in the
past vear.

WATER DEPARTMENT.

When we speak of our Water Department, we speak of
our soundest and most ably managed of all the departments.

Past and present members of the Board of Water Commissioners have recognized the value of an adequate water
supply, and that Holyoke stands in class all by itself in this
respect,  gratifying to all of us.

In fighting fires we have none of the disadvantages of
those cities whose supply is inadequate, and to the cleenliness
of our sources of supply may be credited the fact that Holyoke is especially free from those diseases which come from a
water supply that is not entirely free from impurities.

There has been no great amount of permanent construc
tion in two years, owing to the fact that so much has been
done in the past, but the utmost precaution has been taken
and every effort used to keep the standard of our water to the
point of perfection.

MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
FIRE DEPARTMENT.

With the completion of the new Central Engine House,
we are today known throughout all the country as tne place
where the ‘‘Best’’ Fire Station is.

There still hangs the matter of new fire signal system,
and it is to be hoped that this will be remedied within a
proper time.

Much unenviable notoriety has been given the city

Lo through the differences of opinion as to Fire Alarm systems
between the Mayor and the Fire Commissioners, and the decision of the judge who tried the now famous Fire Commissioner case would indicate that the Commissioners had chosen
the best system.

I have no doubt but that this matter will right itself, and
that in short time Holyoke will not only have the best Fire
Station but the best alarm system as well.

In their report the present Board of Fire Commissioners
make several recommendations and those will be thoroughly
and sincerely considered.

In this department, too, am of the opinion some saving
ean be made and thus add their mite to the reducing of the
tax rate.

BOARD OF HEALTH.

To maintain this department in safeguarding the health
of the citizens, there was expended the sum of of
this amount  going towards the expenses of taking
care of the Tuberculosis Hospital.

The Board in their report recommends strongly the ereetion of an Isolation Hospital and-an addition to the Tuberculosis Hospital, the former recommendation have brought
to your attention elsewhere, and in the matter of an addition
to the Tuberculosis Hospital this is absolutely imperative, as
it is even now overcrowded to an extent that may bring us
into the bad graces of the state authorities and result in the

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS
possible removal of some of the patients to state institution.

RELIEF DEPARTMENT.

We cannot shirk the responsibilities of those who are unfortunate enough to be compelled to call for assistance. The
humane spirit of our people demands that we do all in our
power to relieve distress and want.

There is no question but that abuses will creep into department of this nature, and that occasionally cases may be
helped that are not as worthy as others who may not get what
they need. But better that ten unworthy cases be helped than
one worthy one be neglected, and, if in dealing out to the
less fortunate we may seem overgenerous, we can at least
credit ourselves with the proper spirit instilled by the teachings of our forefathers who never failed to extend the helping hand.

, This department, too, came in for much unenviable and
unnecessary publicity, and it is to be hoped that in future
years we wash our linen without calling the whole country in
to witness the operation.

PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.

Parks and Playgrounds are no longer luxury but a
necessity, and as we see the good accomplished we can but wonder how we ever got along without them. .

This is especially true of Playgrounds, for they are yet
in their infaney, having been in existence but few years.

With city growing and vacant land disappearing, some
suitable places must be provided for recreation for the ehildren.

Let us not complain at the cost of maintaining these two
most essential avenues to good health for the children, and,
while do not advocate any extravagant appropriation for

MAYOR 'S ADDRESS  
either of these, do recommend that we give to them all that
we can afford.

Last year there was expended for Playground expenses
$ and for Park expenses, It may be possible that shght reduction can be made here, but would not
urge any reduction that would in any way reduce the efficiency.

A small parcel of land was purchased in Elmwood. This
amounted to about and not ineluded in the above
sum, which covers running expenses only.

MODIFIED MILK STATION.

When first suggested there was difference of opinions
as to the wisdom of the city taking up this branch, but as time
rolled on and the good that has been done became known, all
opposition disappeared, and today the Milk Station is one of
our sound institutions for charitable work.

Those connected with it, aside from the regular employes, have given of their time and labor and their reward
has been the ‘‘God bless you’’ of many mother whose baby
has been brought back to good health and strong body. .

A corporation has been formed and the business is now
transacted on basis similar to the Public Library, with the
city granting them an appropriation of about  annually, small sum compared with the good accomplished.

ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.

New laws enacted by the State Legislature and which
must be complied with, have materially changed the duties |
and powers of this department and the report of the City Engineer is well worth careful perusal. Some very valuable
information is contained therein, and recommend that the
members of the Board of Aldermen go over this carefully.

To maintain this department the city appropriated the
sum of which includes the Building Inspector and
the Inspector of Electric Wiring.

  MAYOR'S ADDRESS
TAX COLLECTOR.

The very efficient manner in which the business of this
department has been conducted, merits commendation.
Prompt collections have been made and equally prompt returns made to the Treasurer.

Soon this office will be located in the new quarters and
there the citizens who have occasion to visit the office will
find much better conveniences for transacting their business.

CITY TREASURER.

This department, under our most efficient treasurer,
continues to stand forth as model of what city treasurer's
department should be. |

Careful and conscientious in his duty, our Treasurer has
a state wide reputation as one of the best.

CITY AUDITOR.

This official is in reality the ‘‘Watch Dog’’ of thc treasury, and to him all bills must come for approval before being
paid. He cannot approve bill when there is no money appropriated for the same, nor can he approve any bills after
the appropriation of department has been exhausted.

A warning from this department that your appropriation is running low, should be heeded, for under no conditions
will any bill be approved the coming year unless the appropriation of the department is sufficient to meet it.

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

State laws govern the conduct of this office, and though
we may differ as to the sanity of some of them, as law abiding citizens we must comply with them.

The business of the department has been conducted in
a praiseworthy manner, and the Sealer has proven his competeney.

: MAYOR'S ADDRESS  
ASSESSORS.

Few cities have more competent Board of Assessors
than we have, and the duties of this most important branch
of our city have been well performed. .

With an increased floor space and added light to their
office, those having business in this department will find
much better facilities there.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

It would take up too much time and space for me to make
recommendations here, so will content myself with referring
you to all the recommendations of the various departments as
contained in their reports.

You will find some that cannot be carried out at this time
and others should have prompt and careful attention.

. AND NOW, GENTLEMEN, OF THE BOARD OF
ALDERMEN:

To vou and to me the people have intrusted the management of the legislative and executive affairs of the city for the
coming vear.

I feel that we will work in harmony for the good of all
and assure you that my policy of the past, asking nothing
from vou that is not for the best interests of the city, will be
followed the coming year, and know vou will ask inothing
unreasonable of me, and in this way there should be harmony existing that will be healthful for the city.

JOHN J. WHITE,
Mavor.

Digitized by Google

GOVERNMENT
OF THE
MAYOR.
HON. JOHN J. WHITE.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For One Year.)
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH, L. ALPHONSE LAPORTE,
WILLIAM G. CANTIN, DANIEL LONG,
JOSEPH F. GRIFFIN, DANIEL F. SHEA,
HENRY F. THORPE.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For Two Years.)
FREDERICK CHILDS, WILLIAM M. HART,
GEORGE HAMEL, CORNELIUS A. HURLEY,
JOHN STALKER, HARRY R. SACKETT,
CORNELIUS M. DONNELLY.

  CITY OFFICERS
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN BY WARDS. |
Ward  —DANIEL J. RUSSELL.
Ward  —PETER L. JARRY. |
Ward  —EMIL W. KROEPEL. !
Ward  —CHARLES F. McMAHON. |
Ward  —JAMES F. SWEENEY. !
Ward  —DANIEL J. KELLY. |
Ward  —SAMUEL O. HOYT. !
CITY CLERK. |

JOHN F. SHEEHAN. !

ASSISTANT CITY CLERK. |

DANIEL J. HARTNETT. ,

CITY MESSENGER. ,

WILLIAM T. WALSH. :

|

CLERK OF COMMITTEES. :

JOHN C. DORAN. |

!

FInANCcE—John J. White, Mayor, William E. Bosworth, President of Board of Aldermen, Aldermen MeMahon,
Laporte and Shea.

ORDINANCES—Aldermen Hoyt, Stalker, Long, Kelly and
Griffin.

Cuaims—Aldermen Kroepel, Thorpe, Russell, Donnelly
and Sweeney.

STREET FRANCHISES—Aldermen Stalker, Cantin, Jarry,
Hurley and Sackett.

RuLes—Aldermen Sweeney, Long, Thorpe, Kroepel and
Hurley.

uicENSEs—Aldermen Jarry, Kelly, Kroepel, Cantin and
Hart.

STATE AND MiuiTary AID AND SoLpieERS’ ReELIEF—Aldermen Sackett, Donnelly, Russell, Hart and Long.

ENROLLMENT—Aldermen Thorpe, Hurley, Griffin, Childs
and Sweeney. |

MunicieaL LigutTinc—Aldermen Kelly, Stalker, Hamel,
Hart and Russell.

River NAVIGATION, TRADES AND INDUSTRIES—AIldermen
Laporte, Jarry, Hoyt, MeMahon and Cantin.

Epucation—Aldermen Kroepel, Griffin, Hamel, Childs

and Sweeney.

CITY TREASURER. |
Pierre Bonvouloir, Office, Room  City Hall
| Elected annually at the Municipal Election. |
CITY AUDITOR.
Daniel W. Kenney,  Office, City Hall }
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen. |
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.
Henry Winkler, Office, Commercial street
Appointed annually by the Board of Publie Works.
CITY ENGINEER. |
‘Timothy J. MaeCarthy,  Office, City’ Hall |
Appointed every three years by the Mavor.
CITY SOLICITOR. |
Frank J. O'Neil, Office, Holvoke National Bank Bldg. |
Appointed annually by the Mavor.
CITY PHYSICIAN. |
|
James B. Bigelow, Office, Chestnut street |
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
- |
John J. Kirkpatrick. Office, City Hall |
Civil Service.
|
|
|

CITY OFFICERS  
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires  
James A. Allen, Term expires  
Israel Ducharme, Term expires  
Timothy J. MaecCarthy, Clerk, Osear C. Ferry, Asst. Clerk.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor.
| ASSESSORS OF TAXES.
Joseph J, Kelly, Chairman, Term expires  
Jeremiah J. Keane, Secretary, Term expires  
‘William G. Beaudro, Term expires  
ASSISTANT ASSESSOR.
Michael J. Grady,  .. s+ Term expires  
.  Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
James M. Kennedy,  Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
Frank A. McCabe,
Appointed by Collector of Taxes.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 
Frank J. O’Connell,  .
Appointed by the Mavor.
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Frank Rainault, Chairman, Term expires  
Patrick J. Dowd, Secretary, Term expires  
Henrv Baush, Term expires  
John J. Byrnes, Almoner,  .
Eleeted by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS
BOARD OF HEALTH.

Frank A. Woods, M. D.,  Chairman, William J. Powers,,.
M. D.,  Patrick E. Hurley, M. D.,  .
Appointed by the Mayor.

J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer.

BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS. ;
Sidney E. Whiting, Chairman, Term expires  
George C. Robert, M. D., Term expires  .
James H. O’Connell, Term expires  
Appointed by the Mayor.
John Hildreth, Secretary.
LICENSING BOARD.
David C. Downing, Chairman, Term expires  :
Thomas J. O’Connor, Term expires  
George J. White, Term expires  
Fred Kilian, Clerk:
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
John J. Moynahan.
Appointed annually by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Board of Aldermen.
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. CO.

Matthew B. Begley, Fred A. Monat,
John F.. Harrington, Harry W. Rogers,
James KE. Crean.

Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
Joseph D. Goddu.

Civil Service.

, CITY OFFICERS  
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett.

Appointed by Board of Health.

PARK COMMISSIONERS. |

Lorenzo A. Williston, Chairman, Term expires May 
Gustave A. Geissler, Term expires May 
Joseph Laliberte, Term expires May 
George H. Sinelair, Term expires May 
Denis F. O'Connell, Term expires May 

Daniel J. Hartnett, Secretary.

Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and  confirmed by the Board of Aldermen.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.

James J. Dunn, Chairman, Term expires April 
Thomas Stansfield, Terin expires April 
Joseph A. Paradis, Term expires April 
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen.

John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.

) Hon. John J. White, Mayor, ex-officio.
Pierre Bonvouloir, Treasurer, ex-officio.

Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term expires March 
Mrs. John J. Prew, Term expires March 
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term expires March 

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

WATER COMMISSIONERS.

Jesse E. Sheldon, Chairman, Term expires  
Joseph F. Ranger, Treasurer, Term expires  
Hugh McLean, Term expires  

Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS
WATER REGISTRAR.

Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room §, City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
(Civil Service. )

SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.

Patrick Gear, Office, Commercial street
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.

 SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.

Thomas F. Monaghan. .
Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds.)
Stephen A. Mahoney, Term expires  
John J. Finn, Term expires  
Harry J. Bardwell, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

BOARD OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
Archibald A. Brooks, Chairman, Term expires  
Mary E. Hussey, Seerctary, Term expires  
Nathan P. Avery, Term expires  
Mrs. Wilham G. Dwight, Term expires  
William J. Howes, Term expires  
Ovila Beauchamp, Term expires  
David Brodinsky, Term expires  
Mrs. Caroline Moquin, Term expires  

PLANNING BOARD.
Hon. John J. White, Mayor.
William E. Bosworth, President of the Board of Aldermen.
Edward N. White, Thoinas kK. Cavanaugh, M. D.
James H. Wakelin.

CITY OFFICERS  
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AS CONTROLLING BODY IN
CHARGE OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
One Year— .
Frederick S. Webber, John J. O'Connor,
Edwin D. Wells.
Two Years— .
Mrs. C. A. Chase, Dennis F. Lynch,
Joseph B. Weis.
Three Years— .
August H. Baush, Joseph H. Potts, M. D.
Wills M. Fleming.
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.
SPECIAL POLICEMEN. |
Allair, Napoleon, Main street.
Arent, Stanley, High street.
Auclair, Alfred, Park street.
Avery, Frank L., Hampshire street.
Axmann, Joseph, Columbus avenue.
Baker, Michael J., Bh street.
Barnett, George, Maple street.
Bartlett, Frederick G., Cabot street.
Batchelder, George H., West street.
Bray, Thomas A., Laurel street.
Brigham, Elisha N., South street.
Berry, George W., Bh street.
Benoit, Toussaint O. W., Main street.
Buchanan, John, Hampshire street.
Burke, Michael, Maple street.
Cadieux, Edward, Brown avenue.
Cavanaugh, Jeremiah J., Pine street.
Clark, John F., North East street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Clifford, Patrick J., Center street.
Connor, Dennis, Adams street.
Corriveau, Joseph A., Maple street.
Cronin, Daniel S., Samosett street.
Conway, Patrick J., Elm street.

Connors, James, Sargeant. street.
Connell, Joseph J., Dwight street.
Collins, Timothy D., North Bridge street.
Cote, Joseph, Park street.

Culver, Charles E., West street.
Curran, Maurice, High street.

Day, David E., Cherry street.

Dugas, George H., High street.
Dempsey, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Devitt, John, South Bridge street.
Dickinson, John C., Carew street, South Hadley Falls.
Doran, John C., Walnut street.

Dobbs, Ira J., Dwight street.
Durocher, Alfred, Jr., Dwight street.
Eger, Paul C., Northampton street.
Eaton, Joseph W., Pleasant street.
Evans, Charles R., Grover street.

Emery, Napoleon B., Bowers street.
Ezold, Emil B., Vernon street.

Falvey, Timothy, Pine street.

Finn, Martin, North East street.
Fontaine, Hermenigilde, Sargeant street.
Fitzgerald, Martin, Lyman street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick J., Lyman street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick H., Bh street.
Flahive, Thomas, Plymouth place.
Fortier, Joseph, Maple street.
Gallivan, Bartholomew, Chestnut street.
Geran, Patrick, Walnut street.
Geissler, Carl F., Park street.

Goddu, Joseph D., Prospect street.
Goodrich, Charles H., Bowers street.

CITY OFFICERS  

Gagnon, Narcisse, Ely street.
Grandchamp, Charles, South Summer street.
Gehan, Thomas J., Walnut street.
Griffin, Patrick, Elm street.
Gallagher, Thomas E., Appleton street.
Haley, Cornelius J., Easthampton road.
Haley, Michael J., Easthampton road.
Hand, Peter, Clinton avenue.
Hanley, John C., Pine street.
Haves, Charles G., Allyn street.
Higgins, Peter P., Worcester place.
Hills, George F., West. street.
Hurlburt, Arthur P., Park street.
Harris, Joseph, Taylor street.

| Hoffmeyer, George, West. Holyoke.
Howes, Luther W., Smiths Ferry.
Kane, Hugh, Elm street.
Kane, James J., Bond street.
Kelliher, John A., Main street.
Kelly, Thomas J., Rock Valley.
Kennedy, John J., Hampden street.
Kennedy, Maurice, Elm stret.
Kennedy, Samuel G., rear Hampden street.
Kiely, John, Essex street.
Klopfer, Frank E., Avon place.
Kerin, Michael, Dwight street.
Lake, Aaron W., Smiths Ferry.
Lamb, James, Essex street.
Lamont, James, Longwood avenue.
Landry, Joseph, Brown avenue.
Lafontaine Adelard, Park street.
Lappin, Peter, North East street.
Laroche, Thomas R. Maple street.
Leblanc, Joseph, Elm street.
Lempke, Ernst, Elm street.
Lempke, Henry, Rock Valley.
Lunn, Horace A., Appleton street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Lyons, Patrick J., Dwight street.
Mann, Fredrick A., Vernon street. |
Meehan, Francis J., Main street. ,
McDonnell, Thomas, North East. street.
MeDonald, John W., East Dwight street.
MeNaught, William, Sargeant street.
Murphy, Jeremiah, South Summer street.
 Murphy, Timothy, Sargeant street. |
Miller, Alexander  ., Syveamore street.
Morin, Francois, South Summer street.
Mihm, Edward, South street. 
Mahoney, Daniel D., Pleasant street.
Murphy, Thomas, West street.
Manning, Patrick J., North Summer street.
Maley, Patrick J., Elm street.
McCarthy, Dennis L., Samosett street.
McMahon, James J., Bh street.
McManus, John, Pleasant street. |
Miller, George M., Jarvis avenue.
McLaughlin, William J., High street.
Manning, Michael, West street.
Monahan, Patrick, Franklin street.
Moriarty, Daniel, Lyman street.
Murray, Charles H., Elm street.
O’Connor, John J., City Farm, Ingleside.
O’Keefe, David, Bowers street, B. M. passenger station.
O’Brien, John H., East Dwight street.
Parker, Arthur B., Maple street.
Potvin, Gilbert Sr., Maple street.
Peterson, Henry, Southampton road.
Rackliffe, George W., Hitchcock street.
Roche, William F., Linden street.
Rainault, Homer C., Main street.
Rogers Harry W., Laurel street.
Robert, Elzear, Race street.
Roberts, Charles  ., Sargeant street.
Redfern, Frank W., Race street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Richardson, John F., Northampton street. —
Raboin, J. Hormisdas, South Canal street. ,
Sabourin, Leopold, Spring street.
Schoenfeldt, Charles L., R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
Shippee, Leon A., Mosher street.
Skilling, Thomas, Newton street.

* Smith, Charles H., St. Jerome avenue.

Sullivan, John B., Elin street.
Snow, Melvin N., Nonotuck street.
Spencer, Henry B., Suffolk street. :
Sullivan, Frank J., Davis street.
Stromfors, Axel, Taylor street.
Slavin, Thomas J., South street.
Smith, Robert J., Pine street.
Sanderson, Whipple R., Essex street.
Stacy, Joseph, East Dwight street.
Sittard Charles, Vernon street. |
Sullivan, Jeremiah, Maple street. Tennant, Henry C., Pleasant street.
Tokarski, Felix, Union street.
Tureoni, Romeo R., Maple street.
Vogel, Frank L., Main street.
Wheeler, Frederick A., Merrick avenue.
Williams, Fred S., Lynwood avenue.
Williams, Henry C., Nonotuck street.
Wing, John F., Southampton road. ;
Wallington, Mark, Pearl street.
Young, Daniel W., Suffolk street.
Zenner, Hugo, R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
Vallee, Joseph, Pine street. ;
Lyons, Timothy J., East Dwight street.
O’Connor, Edward J., Plymouth place. '
Griffin, Richard, Hampden street.
Webster, Thomas M., Commercial street.
Ryan, James C., Maple street.
Mulany, George A., Elm street. ,
O’Connor, Patrick T., Elm street.

  CITY OFFICERS .

Storey, James, Hampden street.

Goeldner, Ernest, James street.

Parmenter, Wallace E., Dwight street.

Ferris, George B., Pleasant street.

Larounis, Dennis, Hampshire street.

Wooley, Arthur E., Davis street.

O’Leary, Patrick H., No. Summer street.
CONSTABLES.

Valentine J. O’Donnell, Fairfield avenue.

Alexander N. Lapointe, Myrtle avenue.

Ernest R. Laduke, Chestnut street.

Fred Laduke, Coit street.

J. Sidney Wright, Tavlor street.

George A. Mulany, Elm street.

Thomas J. Cummins, Chestnut street.

WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.
William M. Hart, Brown avenue. :
Walter R. Brown, View street. ,
William A. Kelly, Elm street.

MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK
AND STONE.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Timothy J. MeCarthy, Fairfield avenue.
William J. Howes, Harvard street.
Albert F. Sieckman, Lincoln street.
. Patrick J. Kennedy, Jr., Maple street.
Jeremiah J. Keane, Linden street.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Howard street.
Melvin N. Snow, Nonotuek street.
Wallace E. Sawin, Tavlor street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett.

CITY OFFICERS  
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O’Connell, Hampden street.
Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut street.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Charles B. Davis, Linden street. .
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Richard Peters, Pearl street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
John A. Davis, Cottage avenue. |
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.
Patrick J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
Charles R. Evans, Grover street.
William  S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
George I. Sackett, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
George H. Lynds, Hillside avenue.
| Edward G. Whiting, Oak street.
Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.
William S. Bhing, Washington avenue.
John J. Finn, Linden street.
John H. Kenney, School street.
Patrick J. Murphy, Bh street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Louis Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Ananie J. Duhamel, Main street.
Michael F. Shea, Congress avenue.
William Brosnahan, Lyman street. |
George A. Lawrence, Park street.

  CITY OFFICERS
Thomas Shea, Elm street. :
Frank J. Linnehan, Dwight street.
Joseph Laframboise, Willimansett.
Stella Kirkpatrick, Willimansett.
John Kennedy, Hampden street.
Patrick J. Sullivan, Center street.
Henry J. Baker, Linden street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.
Arthur Zaumseil, Main street.
William T. Wilson, Madison avenue.
James R. Walsh, Dwight street.
Mary Donoghue, South Bridge street.
Wilfred Barsalou, Elm street.
James J. Wall, Pine street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
John D. Kelly, Samosett street.
Frederick Herder, Dwight street.
Mabel O’Callaghan, Maple street.
Edward F. McCarthy, Faille avenue.
Dennis J. Begley, N. East street.
William P. Keating, Charles street.
Arthur Turner, Bh street.
Ira J. Humes, Oak street.
Jeremiah J. Grady, Elm street.
Richard Connor, Nonotuck street.
John Courtney, Lyman street.
Walter R. Brown, View street. +»
Madeline P. Dufresne, Riverdale street, Chicopee.
Joseph Harris, Taylor street.
John A. Wall, Pine street.
Eileen O’Brien, Hampshire street.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street. ‘
Jeremiah C. Dowd, Newton street.
William E. Shea, Hampden street.
. Richard Klopfer, Avon place.
Harry Turner, Columbia street.
Ethel Ballou, Maple street.

CITY OFFICERS  
Patrick F. Farrell, St. Jerome avenue.
Milton L. Goldwaite, High street.
Arden W. Myers, South street.
Adolph Walz, South street.
C. Robert Wilhelm, Charles street.
Francis J. Meehan, Main street.

MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Margaret Lawless, Main street.

Daniel O’Connell, Jr., Dwight street.
 William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.

Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.

Charles B. Davis, Linden street.

Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.

Edward G. Whiting, Oak street.

Patrick J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.

John J. Finn, Linden street.

Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.

Maurice E. Fitzgerald, South Hadley Falls.

Edward A. Best, Myrtle avenue.

John H. Kenney, School street.

James R. Walsh, Dwight street. —

Mary Donoghue, South Bridge street.

John Shugrue, Lyman street.

Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.

SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.

Patrick J. Kennedy, Jr., Maple street.

Seward M. Knowles, Beacon avenue.

Arthur W. Little, Cook street.

Franklin W. Ely, Locust street.

A. Judson Merrick, Elm street.

Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.

Lewis Warner, Allyn street.

Patrick Walsh, Pearl street.

BURIAL AGENT.
Harry Crosby, Cabot street.

ELECTION OFFICERS
WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—James Clark, East Dwight street.

Deputy Warden—Thomas J. Bresnahan, North Bridge
street.

Clerk—Ernest Cadorette, Center street.

Deputy Clerk—Oliver Chevalier, West street.

Inspectors—Louis Dragon, Ely street; Winfield Moffat, Mosher street; Terence J. O’Donnell, North Bridge
| street; Cornelius F. Crowley, Center street.

Deputy Inspectors—Jeremiah Mannix, North Bridge

| street; William M. Perry, Ely street; Arthur L. Coderre,
  Mosher street; James H. Hyde, North Canal street.
WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—John H. Ryan, Bowers street.

Deputy Warden—John F. Kennedy, Center street.

Clerk—Louis E. Emery, West street.

Deputy Clerk—George F. Hills, West street.

Inspectors—Edward Mullen, Center street; Dennis M.
Haggerty, North East street; Henry Frappier, Dwight
street; William F. McGrath, Bowers street.

Deputy Inspectors—Perle Marrs, East Dwight
street; George Chevalier, Mosher street; Martin P. Kennedy, North East street; Samuel N. Bogart, Dwight
street.

WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Louis A. Turgeon, South Summer street.

Deputy Warden—Charles H. Roy, Main street.

Clerk—George A. Tetrault, Cabot street.

CITY OFFICERS  

Deputy Clerk—Joseph Charest, South Summer
street.

Inspectors—Hilaire Jacques, Jr., South Bridge street ;
Arthur Hamelin, South Summer street; Adonias J. Robert, South Summer street; Alfred F. Cousineau,  
Main street.

Deputy Inspectors—George A. Lawrence, Park street;
Joseph U. Smith, South Bridge street; Hector Mousette,
o  South Summer street; Ai mand Lacroix, Park street.

. WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Dennis Healey, Park street. |
Deputy Warden—Jeremiah J. Hurley, South Summer street.

Clerk—Wilfred Baulne, South Bridge street.

Deputy Clerk—Arthur E. Grise, Sargeant street.

Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Race street; John E.
Welch, Park street; John L.,Fournier, Main street ;
Max Weisbach, Park street.

Deputy Inspectors—John C. Colton, Main street Hubert Marcotte, Main street; Victor Messier, South
Bridge street; Charles Bader, Park street.

WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Isador W. Davis, Washington avenue.
Deputy Warden—Frederick T. Ball, Northampton

street.

Clerk—James P. Hannan, Davis street.

Deputy Clerk—Stephen McCormick, Gates street.

Inspectors—George Barnett, Jr., South street; Martin J. Conway, Congress avenue; Hugo Popp, Sycamore street; Wallace M. France, South street.

Deputy Inspectors—John Reid, Jr., Carlton street;
John Thompson, Washington avenue; Gustave Stache,
  South street; John H. Carroll, Elm street.

  CITY OFFICERS
WARD THREE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Paul H. Koehler, Carlton street.

Deputy Warden—William J. Doyle, Avon place.

Clerk—John Lowcock, Myrtle avenue.

Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin, Arthur street.

Inspectors—John F'. Higgins, Ingleside street; Michael J.
Shea, Temple street; Frank A. Wells, Main street;
Fredrick Hoffman, Franklin street.

Deputy Inspectors—Charles E. Gillon, Jackson street ;
Henry J. Bey, Main street William B. Clements; Alfred
J. Miller, High street.

WARD THREE—PRECINCT C.

Warden—Thomas E. Begley, Carlton street.

Deputy Warden—Hugh E. Anderson, Franklin
street.

Clerk—James Bower, Franklin street.

Deputy Clerk—Howard G. Farr, Hillside avenue.

Inspectors—Edwin Richardson, Franklin street;
Donald R. Young, Magnolia avenue; Michael J. Connors,
  Sargeant street; Edmund J. Slate, Franklin street.

Deputy Inspectors—John Lowell, Jr. Franklin
street; Alfred P. Beauchemin, Magnolia avenue; Leonard
F. Connor, Northampton street; Theodule Smith,  
Sargeant street.

WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.

Warden—John F. Shea, Chestnut street.

Deputy Warden—John P. Greaney, Maple street.

Clerk—Harry L. Cady, Lyman street.

Deputy Clerk—Charles F. Glidden, Lyman street.

Inspectors—George Hamel, Elm street; Frank Lamay, Front street; Fred St. John, Lyman street; Michael Crane, Lyman street.

Deputy Inspectors—Leo Bergeron, High street; Hormisdas Thomas, Front street; William Kelly, Hampden street; Constant Wolski, Hampden street.

CITY OFFICERS  
WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Patrick Mackey, Pine street.

Deputy Warden—Charles K. Dydek, High street.

Clerk—Timothy F. Lyons, Elm street.

Deputy Clerk—Frank Fleming, Chestnut street.

Inspectors—Thomas Ashe, Pine street; Edward Fitzgerald, High street; Edward Damour, Fountain street ;
Joseph K. Menard, High street. 

Deputy Inspectors—Michael O’Hare, Chestnut street ;
William F. Shea, Lyman street; John Kaplinsky,  
High street; James W. Sheehan, Elm street.

WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Ira J. Humes, Oak street.

Deputy Warden, Frank A. Holt, Dwight street.

Clerk—Daniel F. O’Connell, Bh street.

Deputy Clerk—William J. O’Connor, Pine street.

Inspectors—James J. Clifford, Suffolk street Arthur
V. O’Connor, Dwight street Patrick Moakler, Dwight
street; G. Herbert Foster, Chestnut street.

Deputy Inspectors—John J. O’Connor, Clinton avenue; George A. Green, Dwight street; Daniel Flynn,
  Dwight street; Edward V. Connor, Bh street.

WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Patrick J. Dempsey, Dwight street.

Deputy Warden—James A. G. Aitken, Oak street.

Clerk—F rank D. O’Connor, Clinton avenue.

Deputy Clerk—Wilbur A. Robinson, Elm street.

Inspectors—Thomas J. Hart, Dwight street; Patrick
W. Fitzgerald, School street; White B. Bidwell, High
street; Thomas V. K. Miner, Suffolk street. .

Deputy Inspectors—John J. Garvey, Dwight street;
Michael F. Baker, Suffolk street; George W. Ritter,  
Dwight street. :

  CITY OFFICERS
WARD SIX—PRECINCT A.
Warden—F red N. Ricker, Essex street.
Deputy Warden—Charles C. Cassidy, Newton street.
Clerk—Joseph Morley, Sargeant street.
Deputy Clerk—James T. Cahill, High street.
Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Appleton street;
Charles McCauley, Cabot street; George H. Corrigan,  
Hampshire street; Robert J. Foley, Chestnut street.
Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut
street; Andrew Nye, Maple street; Robert E. Alben,  
Newton street; Anselm Magliola, High street.

) WARD SIX—PRECINCT B. .
Warden—F rederick Shearer, Sargeant street.
Deputy Warden—Thomas Skilling, Newton street.
Clerk—John A. Vaughan, Newton street.

Deputy Clerk—George B. Avery, High street.
Inspectors—Alexander Pratt, High street; John Stewart, Cabot street; Frank Astley, Chestnut street;
William J. Burke, Chestnut street.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Cavanaugh, Franklin
} street; Nicholas Cavanaugh, Commercial street; James
Gray, Sargeant street; Edward Chambers, Elm street.
WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.
Warden—William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
Deputy Warden—George W. Doane, Lincoln street.
Clerk—Arthur R. Root, Pearl street.
Deputy Clerk—James J. Haggerty, Dwight street.
Inspectors—Frank E. Buckley, Pleasant street;
Raymond W. Gero, Pleasant street; Bernard F. Bigelow,
  Pearl street; Pierre Smeddy, Parker street.
Deputy Inspectors—Raymond P. Allen, Howard street;
William R. Chase, Fairfield avenue; William H. Delaney,
Lynwood avenue; Charles L. Witherell, Waldo street.

CITY OFFICERS  

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.
Warden—John M. James, Madison avenue.
Deputy Warden—Charles M. Nelson, Walnut

street.

Clerk—Joseph F. Griffin, Pleasant street.

Deputy Clerk—Walter D. Hanley, Oak street.

Inspectors—James J. Kirkpatrick, Waldo street; John
K. Magrane, Hampden strect; Levi E. Fay, Hampshire street; Thomas F. McCullough, Dwight street.

Deputy Inspectors—Thomas E. Sullivan, Pleasant
street; John F. Murphy, Suffolk street; Thomas MceGuinness, Walnut street; Frederick E. Quirk, Linden street.

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT C.
Warden—Linus D. Crafts, Northampton street.
Deputy Warden—George H. Allyn, Jr., River Terrace.
Clerk—Arthur L. Connor, Elm street.

Deputy Clerk—Charles J. Ford, Allyn street.

Inspectors—Frank S. Rowe, Nonotuck street; Edwin
B. Evans, Sargeant street; Timothy C. Fahey, Pearl
street; Edgar N. Whitaker, Amherst street.

Deputy Inspectors—M. Stephen Bowe, Beacon ave- |

| nue; William F. Bradley, Jr., Allyn street; Frank J.
Phelps, Northampton street; William H. Cotter, Arlington street.

HOLYOKE WATER WORKS
OFFICERS FOR  .
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
Jesse E. Sheldon, Chairman,
Hugh McLean, Vice-Chairman,
Thomas J. Carmody, Treasurer. ,
WATER REGISTRAR.
Albert E. Pickup.
CLERK.
| Miss Katharine G. Sullivan.
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Miss Helen A. Hanley.
SUPERINTENDENT.
Patrick Gear.
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT.
Alexander H. O’Brien.
ENGINEER.
Patrick J. Lucey.
INSPECTORS.
James F. Cleary
Thomas E. Sullivan Eugene F’. Kane
Joseph B. Walsh Daniel F.. Cray

: REPORT OF
WATER BOARD
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:

The Board of Water Commissioners respectfully present
the following as their report for the fiscal year ending November :

RECEIPTS.
Balance December  .................... 
Water rents ..........c      
Rent of meters ......  ...     eens  
Service Plpe ....... cc ec cc   teeees  
| Interest on bank deposits ............ ce ees  
Materials and labor ...............   
DS  
ONG Cc:  
Serap brass,  n, et€.........     eens  
Ice privilege and supervision .................  
Lease of land to Holyoke Street Railway Co.....  
Rent of Connery farm ................  
Insurance for Bray barn, hay and tools destroyed

by fire ..  ...  ccence t eens  
ROLY  (cc  
Inspection and Board at White Reservoir......  

; 
EXPENDITURES.
Main pipe extension and supplies ............. 
Service pipe extension and supplies ............  
Main pipe repairs ..........         
Service pipe repairs ...........         
Hydrants .......         eens  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Reservoirs :
Ashley and Wright Ponds, Whiting Street
and High Service .................++-  

Fomer ........   ecc cc  

White ......     cc  ete teen ees  
Supervision and inspection ...................  
Meters .......   cc ce    eg  
Barn  ...       wees eaes  S)  
Office ..     enees  
Automobile .........     eens  
Engineering .......... ccs      
City of Holyoke, taxes ....................++.  
Interest on bonds ................ .  
Bonds .......      ec         
Transfer to Sinking Fund ..................  
For all other purposes ..............       

$ 
Cash in Holyoke National Bank .... 
Cash in City National Bank ......  
Cash in Home National Rank ......  
Cash in Park National Bank .......  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank,  
Cash on hand ...................  

————— 

$ 

December .

I hereby certify that have examined the books and accounts of the Water Department for the vear ending November found them correctly added, the vouchers for
payments properly approved.

The cash balance,  has been verified.

D. W. KENNEY, City Auditor.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

The rainfall for the year was much above the aver- |
age. For the eleven months from January to December  ,
the amount collected at the Fomer station was greater than
for any similar period since  .

The level of the different reservoirs except the High
Service Reservoir was well maintained during the year, and
on December there was more water in storage than
there was at any corresponding time since the completion and
filling of the White Reservoir.

The process of changing the hydrant nozzles from clutch
couplings to screw threads as requesterd by the Board of Fire
Commissioners was completed during the year.

Additional hydrants were placed at locations selected by
the Fire Department in the congested district and on new
mains in streets opened for real estate development. These
mains were laid as required to meet the demands of new
houses, although the revenue received from them will not for
several years begin to meet the cost of the investment to this
department. Our policy toward real estate developmnt has
always been most liberal, contrasting greatly with the general

practice in other places of charging about six per cent on the
extension until such time as the revenue reaches that figure.

The gridiron system was strengthened by replacing
mains in the lower part of the city, according to plans developed and followed by the Board in recent years. For further
details of which you are respectfully referred to the report
of the Superintendent.

For the relief of the unemployed  was appropriated
by the state and spent on the Ashley Water Shed under the
direction of the State Forester. At its own expense this department set out white pine trees on this tract, continuing its policy of reforestration begun several years ago.

For the benefit of the unemployed, also the extension of the
mains in Morrill avenue and Winthrop street was carried on
during the past winter, even though the expense was somewhat greater to the department than if the work were done
under more favorable conditions.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

The Committee on Fire Prevention of the National Board
of Fire Underwriters through their expert engineers conducted most thorough examination of the City of Holyoke
in all matters relating to the prevention and putting out of
fires. In their investigation of the Water Department no detail having any bearing on this subject was overlooked. We
were pleased to find in their report dated April,  that
not one recommendation was advanced concerning this department which they considered either urgent or important.
Such extensions and changes as we are planning to do received their approval and their final conclusions as given in
the report were that ‘‘the management and organization are
efficient and records are complete, accessible and up to date.’’

The report of this investigation is very pleasing to this
Board of Water Commissioners since it so clearly endorses
and approves our policy regarding the fire fighting features
of our department. We regret, however, that the satisfaction
of the underwriters was not reflected by recommendation
of reduction of the insurance rates.

It appears that no matter how lhberal we may have been
in regard to reservoir capacity, distribution mains, gates and
hydrants our activities are not sufficient to influence the companies in the matter of lower rates, and no concessions may
be expected.

A bill aiming to reduce our water rents each year by
half the difference between our fixed charges and the ainount
received for water rents was introduced into the General
Court this year and passed the House of Representatives. .
Through the efforts of the senator for this district, the Hon.
John F.. Sheehan, this bill was defeated in the Senate, and
we hereby extend him our thanks for his efforts in our behalf.
The disastrous effect the passage of this bill would have on
this department is so evident that we feel its introduction was.
due entirely to misunderstanding.

In the case of L. M. Young vs. The City of Holyoke, relating to the contract and construction of the White Reservoir
dam, report from the master favorable to the city in every

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
, particular Was rendered, and which was later approved by
a justice of the Supreme Court. On exceptions of the plaintiff the matier was carried to the full bench where it now
rests. We expect an early and favorable deeision as an end
to this unfortunate and expensive litigation.

The attention to this Board for the past two vears has
been directed upon the small storage in the loeal reservoirs
and the rapid growth of the High Service District. For the
past five vears its rate of growth has been about three times
that of the rest of the city, and the single  -inch pipe from
Fomer Reservoir was proving unable to keep both the High
Service Reservoir and Ashley Reservoir filled in years of

| low rainfall.

We publish herein the report and recommendations of
our Engineer on this matter and also the report of Consulting Engineer James L. Tighe, to whom this matter was referred for approval:

Holvoke, Mass., June .
To the Honorable Board of Water Commissioners:

GENTLEMEN: The quantity of water in storage on May
 in our local reservoirs, was as follows:

Ashley Ponds, gallons; High Serviee Reservoir, gallons, and Whiting Street Reservoir,
  gallons.

The quantity required to fill these reservoirs to the level
of their spillways is: Ashley Ponds, gallons; High
Service Reservoir, gallons, and Whiting Street Reservolr, gallons, total of gallons.

On May the quantity required to fill these reservoirs was: Ashley Ponds, gallons; High Service
Reservoir, gallons, while Whiting Street Reservoir
was filled and overflowing, total shortage of gallons against shortage at the present time of gallons or gallons less at present than this time a
year ago. Unless we should have an extraordinary rainfall

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD

during the coming summer or the daily consiwmption of
water  greatly reduced, we may be prepared to expect that
our storage will be very small at the end of this season.

While the rainfall for the year  and thus far in
  is below the normal, and the quantity of water collected
by the water-sheds of the reservoirs is much below the usual
figure, vet the great cause of the present shortage is due to
the fact that the  -inch pipe from Fomer Reservoir must be
turned into the High Service Reservoir for so great portion
of the vear. During  the time this pipe was so employed
was one hundred and eighty-two days, while in  was
one hundred and seventy-eight days, practically half the
time.

Measurements on the discharge of this pipe show its delivery into the Ashley Ponds to be gallons daily,
while on the same basis its delivery into the High Service
Reservoir is estimated to be gallons at the elevation
of the spillway, gallons daily at the general level
of the ponds.

) It is not possible to discharge into both reservoirs at the
same time, consequently for each day that the Fomer pipe delivers into the High Service Reservoir it reduces the discharge
from Fomer by gallons, and as the district supphed
by the High Service is growing one the number of days  s
consequently mereasing,

Tf the Fomer pipe was kept discharging at its full eapacity of gallons daily into Ashley Ponds, which
the completion of the White Reservoir has made possible, there
would be delivered into that reservoir million gallons for
the vear from this source. But since half the time this pipe
would discharge only gallons per day, what we are
getting from it amounts to only gallons into Ashlev Ponds, and gallons mto High Service Reservoir. total of or gallons less than
the maximum discharge of the pipe.

On aceount of the rapid depletion of the storage in the
High Service Reservoir, it was necessary during this past. winREPORT OF WATER BOARD al
ter to supply that section of the High Service district north
of Dwight street, from the Whiting Street Reservoir. By this
arrangement the draft from the High Service Reservoir was
lessened about gallons.

Adding together the quantity of water delivered by this
Former pipe, gallons, the gallons supplied from the Whiting Street Reservoir to this district, and
the difference between the storage in the High Service, May
  and the storage May which was  
gallons, we find that the quantity of water required in the
High Service Reservoir above that furnished by its own
water-shed in  was gallons.

There are three methods which present themselves by
which the quantity of water vearly drawn from the Fomer
water-shed may be inereased. .

First. The construction of the large main to parallel the
present  -inch mam. This is roughly estimated to cost
$ The interest and taxes on this proposed line when
finished, will bring its vearly cost to this department to about
$  per year, and its construction should be begun only
when other practical and cheaper improvements are outgrown
and inadequate.

Second. pump, electrically operated, could be erected
in the gate house at the Ashley Ponds end of the present  inch main, and pump such quantity of water from the
Ashley Reservoir into the Iligh Service as may be required.
Meanwhile the Fomer pipe could discharge its full capacity
every day into Ashley Ponds.

The eost of this arrangement would be as follows:

Cost of pump and motor ....................+. 
Rearranging gate house for pump ............. feet of  -inch pipe .........  ...     
Gates, ete.  ...   ce     ene  
Pole hine and Wire ...........      

Total Cost  ...       es 

v  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

Yearly cost cent K. W. (night rate) ..........  eent K. W. (day rate)

Oil supplies, ete.  ...     

Fuel   cence nee eens  

Interest on original cost at per cent .........  

Depreciation on motor and pump ...........  

Total cost for vear oo...     

No allowance for extra help to operate pump.

By this arrangement, the quantity of water drawn from
the Fomer source would be increased the number of davs the
pipe now delivers into Iligh Service, multiphed by  
gallons, making total of million gallons for the vear, a
gain of gallons.

Third. If the Fomer pipe line were extended up the
Manhan Brook, to point where low dam could be ereeted,
as shown in the accompanying drawing, at elevation  the
additional head so obtained would increase the discharge into
Ashley Ponds by little over three-fourths of million gallons daily, and raise the discharge into High Service Reservoir to gallons daily. At the present time we require about gallons vearly from Fomer into the
High Service, and under the proposed arrangement this quantity could be obtained in about eleven days. The rest of the
vear, in vear of average rainfall the pipe would discharge
into the Ashley Ponds gallons daily or million,
inaking total of millon gallons drawn from Fomer for

the vear. This is an increase of gallons vearly
over the quantity now delivered into the Ashlev Ponds and |

} High Service Reservoir from the Fomer pipe; which allowing gallons per day per capita would inerease our supply days. It is also gallons yearly more than
would be delivered into the local reservoirs under method No. which proposes to have the Fomer water discharge into 
Ashley Ponds every day, and have High Serviee Reservoir
supply pumped at an initial vearly cost of .

REPORT OF WATER BOARD 
In vear of minimum rainfall, the capacity of the White
Reservoir is not sufficient to deliver more than million
gallons per day on basis of measurements on Fomer streams
since  Therefore, until the Blue Meadow Brook should
be developed it would be the best arrangement to draw from
the present Fomer dam at elevation into Ashley Ponds
during the spring months, and draw from the White Reservoir through the extended pipe the balance of the year. By
this arrangement drawing for say ninety days into Ashley
from Fomer, total quantity of million gallons would be
delivered.

With the accompanying plans is table showing the cost
of proposed dam of both masonry and earth type at designated locations, and also the cost of proposed pipe line to
connect with the at the present Fomer dam.

The cost at any of the locations, or of either type of dam
is about the same, but owing to more favorable conditions
for construction recommend that masonry dam, the elevation of whose spillway shall be  be erected at site designated B- The cost of this structure eomplete with pipe line,
gate house, cleaning reservoir basin and necessary land damages would be about ,

i
ot REPORT OF WATER BOARD
I |
a om  Oo  G
Oo  Nn ow +
oS) ot mo Mos)
— co oO oa
fs  mM aa Qa re
 i
—

a
  rs) om) Oo  ;
 Ss  &§ |
Oo ileal nN  +

oO prt  rm m
'Z oO |
o
 ||
Ep
A. Of
we  oO t
xs  oO an
a er eS o) ae os. |
zA o
S |
nlf ee
Z, |
LZ ro)
  
e €&: ES: +: FS
| €.  ir
op)  ey ane Oy
OC ov x} nO
oe
O an oO 
Ms Su 
ow oa Sec
Ce fan} oS
| aw os oS
—   |
OC} ae ae |
 .
wm ji
I
i || Oa  Su
  $e Se es a
led Oo So  oS o
Ss, SE 
v  ise} fse is) is)
o oh eh te NP be wo by
  
ath   |
oe |
  os on
 s& Ss  an as ate wt
L  
Zo fo
 |
Se |)  |
 i“ dew  I
 Za cs nan r
rs  Se |
 a)  
oe: ee
'  oN |
tome ond ta
 ci i] LY |
  oe me Mw |
i i!

| |
| i

REPORT OF WATER BOARD JO
PRESENT ARRANGEMENT.
Fomer Pipe Delivering into Rate Ohlone Dake Se
E BA
|
High Service,  
Ashley,  
Total, Ave.  
|
PUMP AT ASHLEY RESERVOIR.
  gallons daily into Ashley from Fomer 
million gallons for year.
FOMER MAIN EXTENDED TO ELEV.  .
Manhan Basis.
i Pipe Delivering Into ‘No. of days, Rate per cay Total for
High Service,  
Ashley,  
| |
Total, Ave.  
oO  BS ot .
Sudbury Basis.
High Service,  
Ashley,  
Ashley,  
Total,  

ob REPORT OF WATER BOARD
REPORT OF JAMES L. TIGHE, CIVIL ENGINEER.
June .
The Board of Water Commissioners, Holyoke, Mass.:
Jesse I. Sheldon, Chairman.

Dear Sir: In compliance with your request have
made study and investigation of the problem of increasing
the water supply of the City of THolvoke, by inereasing the
volume of water drawn from the Fomer source, and report as
follows: |

At the outset it may be stated that an inerease in the
supply  necessary, as under present conditions of consumption and limited delivery from the Fomer source, the adequaey of the supply is reached. This, of course, is suggested
by the condition of the local reservoirs which have not filled
this spring.

The maxnnum volume of water that ean be drawn under
present conditions of delivery from the Fomer source, is
about gallons per day to Ashlev Reservoir or  ,O  gallons per day to the High Service, assuming the average height of the latter five feet below the crest of the overflow.
The total volume, therefore, that can be drawn from the
Fomer source per vear must fall between the limits of gallons, and gallons, depending upon the
number of days the pipe discharges into each reservoir.

If discharged every day into Ashley, the maximuun volume of gallons would be delivered. On the other

hand, if discharged every day into the High Service, the
ninimum volume of  gallons would only be delivered.

In the vear the volume of water necessary from
the Fomer source to meet the requirements of the High Service Was gallons, or about two hundred and six
days’ discharge of the pipe. Hence, the actual volume that
could be drawn from the Fomer source in that vear would be
  gallons to the High Service, and galJons to Ashley, or total to both reservoirs of gal,

REPORT OF WATER BOARD a

lons. This shows loss to Ashley, on account of feeding the
High Service, of gallons per vear. The problem,
therefore, is, what can be done to increase the discharge from
the Fomer source where the supply is abundant, and, at thd
same time meet. the requirements of the High Service not only
at present but for some vears to come. ,

To do this, three methods have been proposed by your
Engineer, P. J. Lucey, which are as follows:

 Increasing the head on the present pipe line and thus
increasing its discharging capacity both to Ashley
and High Serviee.

 Discharging the present pipe line every day throughout the vear into Ashley and pumping from Ashley
to High Service.

 Laying another pipe line from Ashley to Fomer.

The first method is made practicable, because of the construction of the White Reservoir, which renders large sup. ply available at any elevation or head above the present head
on the pipe line from one to feet.

If the whole of this head were utilized by extending the
Fomer pipe line to the White Reservoir, distance of about

  feet, the discharging capacity of the pipe line to Ashlev would be inereased from gallons to  
gallons per day, and to the High Serviee from gallons to gallons per day, or an increase of about
sixty-seven and one-half per cent in the one case and three
hundred and twenty-three per cent in the other.

According to the records of the run-off from the Fomer
water-shed, the volume of water that can be drawn from the
White Reservoir per day, dav in and day out,  about gallons or about of gallons, if the reservoir is
not to be kept below high water mark for long periods
running into years.

Assuming then, that the available supply from the White
Reservoir is gallons per day, and that the requirements of the High Service is gallons per vear, the
maximum volume that would be made available per vear, by

a  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

extending the pipe lne to the White Reservoir, would be  ,-.
  gallons to the High Service, and gallons
to Ashley, or total to both reservoirs of gallons or more than twice the volume that was discharged into
both these reservoirs in the year  .

One billion, eight hundred and forty-four million gallons, therefore, is the maximum volume that could be drawn
from the Fomer source per year by an extension of the present  -inch pipe line to the White Reservoir, and any less extension than this to anv point on the Manhan brook below the
White Reservoir, must be less efficient accordingly.

The cost of extending the pipe line from the in the
highway at the Fomer Reservoir to the White Reservoir, is
estimated at which, on four per cent basis and including taxes, would make the cost of the increase  per
million of gallons delivered, or about one quarter of cent
per gallons.

As to the advisability, from an economic standpoint, of
extending the pipe line to the White Reservoir, need not be
discussed because, it is not practical proposition, owing to
the greater strain that would be placed upon the pipe line
due to the increased pressure.

The elevation of the White Reservoir overflow is )
feet higher than the overflow of the Fomer Reservoir; hence,
if the pipe line was extended to the White Reservoir, an extra
pressure of pounds, or two and one-fifth times it present

pressure, would be placed on the pipe line which it was not
designed to withstand. It was, however, designed to withstand about twenty-five pounds extra pressure, and  this,
therefore, must be the limit of any increased pressure to
which it ought to be subjected.

Your Enginer had this in mind as his plans propose, not
an extension of the pipe line to the White Reservoir, but to
a point less than feet from the Y, to small reservoir
or intake to be built on the Manhan brook below the White
Reservoir, which would inerease the pressure on the pipe line
a little over pounds.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD 

Under this extra pressure of pounds, the discharging
capacity of the pipe line to Ashley would be increased from
  gallons to gallons per day, and to the High
Service from gallons to gallons per day,
that is, it would be increased about twenty per cent to Ashley and one hundred thirty-one per cent to the High Service.

Taking again the requirements of the High Service as
  gallons per year, the maximum volume that could
be drawn from the Fomer source under this new arrangement
to both Ashley and High Service, would be  
per year, or gallons more than the total volume
drawn from the Fomer source in the year  or  
gallons more than could be delivered to Ashley if feeding the
High Service was abandoned entirely. Thus, it is seen, that the
proposed extension, not only makes up the deficit caused to
Ashley by the pipe line having to feed the High Service, but
shows gain for Ashley of gallons.

The cost of this extension is estimated at which,
on basis of four per cent, together with the taxes, makes
the cost of the increase  per million of gallons, or less
than one quarter of cent per gallons.

The second method mentioned for inereasing the supply "
and meeting the requirements at the same time of the High
Service, would be to discharge all the water from the Fomer
source into Ashley and then pump from Ashley into the High
Service. Py this method the same volume of water approximately, would be delivered into Ashley as would be delivered
into Ashley and ‘High Service under the first method, consequently, any advantage of one method over the other must
be in the cost.

The cost of pumping by electricity gallons
per year from Ashley to the High Service, assuming an efficient installation, and the cost of electric power at the lowest
schedule rate of the City of Holvoke, namely, cents per
K. W. H., would be more per vear for the power alone than
the vearly cost of the development of the first. method. Tow
much more, therefore, would the cost of the seeond method

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
be, if the cost of the installation, maintenance and attendance
were added to the cost of the power.

In regard to the third method, or the laving of another
pipe line from Ashley to Fomer, before domg this, its discharging capacity would have to be earefully considered, as
it might not be advisable to lay another pipe line of less capacity than what would be required ultimately for the

. economical development of the Fomer water-shed. pipe
line of such capacity, if not larger, would not be smaller than
twenty-four inches in diameter. Assuming it to be the latter
size, the large cost of constructing it makes the proposition
prohibitive and out of the question at the present time.

To increase the supply, however, to the same extent as
by either of the other two methods, the pipe line would not
have to be laid all the way from Ashley to Fomer, but about

| six-tenths of the distance. To do this would cost in the neighborhood of  at least, which, on four per cent basis,
together with taxes, would make yearly cost of or
several times as much as by the first or second methods.

The first method, therefore, is the cheaper, and am in
full accord with vour Engineer in recommending it to the |

: Board as the most desirable of the three methods to adopt.

It might be stated here that the efficiency of this method
is not temporary, or at an end, so to speak, when another pipe
line is laid from Ashley to Fomer, beeause, after such  s
done, it will still remain as before, an efficient factor in the |
delivery of water from the Fomer source to the local reservoirs.

With the most desirable method for increasing the supply from:the Fomer source agreed upon, the next question is,
how Jong will this inereased supply last the city before another increase in the supply will be needed.

According to the census of Holyoke, the growth of the ,
eity sinee has been shown in the following table, viz.:

TS  Lo    ees BA T

D  Lo     

.  Le       FF 

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

L  Lc cc          FIBA

VIVO Lo          Ob EBO

  (Water Works Census) ...............  

This table shows that the average growth of Holyoke,
during the past twenty-five vears, has been per year,
and only per year during the last five years of this period, that is, from to  .

According to the water works census of the High Service district, the population in that territory was in
 and in the present year, thus showing an increase
of population in seven years of or per year; an increase of over seventy-five per cent of the merease per year
of the whole city during the past five vears.

The consumption in the High Service district during the
year was, according to the records of the water department, gallons per capita per day.

While expemence shows that as population inereases
the consumption also per capita increases yet, in the district
under consideration, where the mains are practically all laid
out and large irrigation carried on in proportion to the
population per acre, it  not hkely that the consumption per
capita will merease beyond what it  at present for the next
decade of vears at least. Assuming, however, that it may increase to gallons per capita, per day, and that the population will increase per vear, or to total of ten
vears hence, the volume of water that would have to be drawn
from the Fomer source at that period to meet the requirements of the High Service, would be approximately of gallons. With this quantity discharged into the High
Service, the quantity that could be discharged mto Ashley
during the same year, allowing at the same time further
deterioration of the discharging capacity of the pipe line of
seven per cent, or total altogether of nineteen per cent froin
its original discharging capacity when new, would be of gallons, or total of of gallons to

both reservoirs, or about of gallons more than
was drawn from the Fomer source in the vear  .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

The available water supply for Holvoke, excluding the
Fomer source, is adequate to furnish gallons per
day, dav in and day out. Including the Fomer souree, therefore, the total available supply in the vear  with the requirements of the High Service at that tine, namely, gallons, taken into consideration, will be adequate to
furnish gallons per day, or quantity on consumption basis of gallons per capita, per day, to serve a
population of  the estimated population of Holyoke in
 assuming it will continue its normal growth of the past
twenty-five years.

If the consumption, however, remains at the saie rate as
at present, namely: gallons per capita, per day, the supply will be adequate only for approximately nine vears more,
or until the year  Again should the per capita consumption, or growth in population inerease or decrease so
that the average total consumption would be more or less than
§.  gallons per day, the term of years for whieh the
supply would be adequate, would be affected accordingly, that
is, the time would be lessened or extended. The same reasonmg apphes to the supply itself, the adequacy of which is
based on the dmest periods on record. Should, therefore,
drier periods occur in the future, the adequacy of the supply
would be affeeted accordingly.

It has been stated above that the available supply of
Holvoke, not including the Fomer source, is adequate to furnish day and day out, gallons per day. If to
this is added, the volume available from the Fomer source
under present conditions, that is, of gallons per
year, or gallons per day, the total availabie supply
for Holyoke at the present time is gallons per day
or quantity shghtly less than was used in  thus showing that the consumption has not only reached but slightly
exded the limit of the supply.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
PIPE-LINE EXTENSION.

Coming now to the extension of the pipe line and the
selection of site for the intake reservoir on the Manhan
Brook, your Engineer has made surveys and drawn prelinInary plans showing four different locations for dam, any |
one of which, from an engineering standpoint, would be suitable. He had also test pits dug showing that rock ledge foundation can be easily secured, thus making it possible for the
construction of either an earthen or masonry structure.

' Beeause of the small magnitude of the structure to be
built, there can be very little difference, if any, between the
cost of either type whether earth or masonry, and since gate
house, overflow and eut-off walls of masonry would be. required by an earthen dam, it seems advisable to build the
whole strueture of masonry.

Of the four locations selected by your Engineer, it appears that the one farthest down stream and the one farthest

up stream, known on the plans as “‘M’’ and ‘‘E”’ respectively, are not as favorable as the two intermediate ones.
. The elevation of ** MM” or site farthest down stream is  
in the bed of the brook. This shows that dam feet high
in height from the bed of the brook to its overflow, would
have to be constructed to reach elevation  the height necessary to place pounds or thereabouts extra pressure on
the pipe line to inerease its discharging capacity as above discussed.

At this site also rock ledge was not observed or found in
the bed of the brook, although it was found on each bank.
Should the ledge be some distance below the bed of the brook,
a higher dam accordingly would be required, which with the
deeper excavation necessary, night make the proposition a
rather costly one without any special benefit in return, except
that the pipe line connecting it would be shorter than to any
of the other sites.

Should the height of the dam, however, not be raised to
elevation  but to as shown on the plans, the discharg  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

ing capacity of the pipe lime would be reduced about  
gallons per day, loss of efficieney which would not be advisable. Hlenee this site may be disregarded entirely. The
other site farthest up stream known as ‘*I ”’ has an elevation of in the bed of the brook, thus necessitating very |
low dam to reach elevation  This site, however, with the
exception of its elevation, is not as favorable as the one next
below it, and, therefore, nay be also disregarded.

The one next below it, or the upper one of the two intermediates marked ‘*B" on the plans is, apparently, from a
construction point of view, the most favorable of all the sites,
because of its high elevation, and especially because of the
bed of the brook, and practically the surface of the ground

, all along the Jine of the dam bemg roeck ledge, which assures
an inexpensive foundation, and, consequently, an inexpensive
dai.

Its elevation in the bed of the brook is  thus necessitating adam only ten feet high to its overflow to reach elevation  .

Beeause of such low dam, however, and also because
of the configuration of the ground behind it, the reservoir
formed by the dam will have capacity of only gallons, and even if the strueture were raised five feet higher,
the storage capacity would only be increased to about milhon of gallons. This lack of storage capacity is the only one
unfavorable feature about this site, and if large enough to
hold few million of gallons, there would be no question about
its selection in preference to the site next below it known as
T"’ on the plans.

An intake storage capacity of few million of gallons is
of no account so far as inereasing the supply of water  s
concerned, but is very important factor in the operation
and working of the project. In short, it is to the project what
the governor is to the steam engine, as by it the discharge or
feed water from the White Reservoir, could be easily regulated without either wasting water across the dam or emptying
the reservoir and allowing air to entez the pipe.

\ REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Neither of these conditions, certainly, would be desirable,

vet where the storage capacity is only fraction of the day’s

supply, there is nothing to prevent one or the other except

. most vigilant supervision. In regard to air getting into the

pipe, your Engineer has designed the pipe line on an ascending grade from the at Fomer to the intake, so that if such

did happen it would not become entrained there but back

out again to the intake, as the pipe would refill with water.

“While this is wise precaution, nevertheless, when dealing

with such proposition the old proverb that an ‘‘ounce of

prevention is worth pound of cure’’ should not be forgotten.

Again drawing from the White Reservoir and letting
water waste over the intake dam at the same time, would be
a very poor policy, especially in view of the fact that the volume to be delivered to Ashley and the High Service depends

* wupon the efficiency of the White storage. .

The importance of storage capacity at the intake is,
therefore, self evident, because it simplifies supervision and
reduces accordingly, in proportion to the size of the storage,
the chances of wasting water over the dam or allowing air
to enter the pipe line. For this reason the site next below
marked ‘‘T’’ on the plans is more favorable one, because
it has storage capacity of two and half million or three
million of gallons, with flash boards, or capacity six times
as large as the capacity of site ‘‘B.”’

The elevation of ‘‘T’’ is in the bed of the brook and
would, therefore, require dam fourteen feet high to the
overflow to reach elevation  This site is feet distance from the at Fomer and feet nearer to it than
‘*B,’’ so that the cost of the pipe line to site ‘‘T’’ would be in
the neighborhood of  less than the cost of the line to
“B.’”’ ;

Rock ledge although reached by test pits on either side
has not been observed in the bottom of the brook at ‘‘T’’ like
at ‘‘B,’’ and, therefore, the foundation for dam is not so
well assured at the former as at the latter. For this reason

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

and because of its greater height, structure erection at ‘*T”’
would cost somewhat more than one erected at ‘'B,’’ although
the differenee in cost, taking into consideration the shorter
pipe line and assuming that rock foundation would be seeured at ‘*T’’ within depth of say five feet below the bed
of the brook, should not exd couple of thousand dollars.

To advise then as to which dam should be built under
such conditions, the cheaper one, of course, if the management in its best judgment believes that the operation of the
project can be satisfactorily performed without waste of
water, etc. If on the other hand, there is anv question or
doubt of this being accomplished, the more expensive one,
namely: site ‘*T’’ should be developed.

STABILITY OF DAMS.

In relation to the stability of both dams, from this
standpoint, have analyzed their sections shown on the plans, ;
and also the discharging capacity of their overflows.

The length of overflow in each ease is fifty feet, or about
the same length in proportion to water-shed, as the overflow of
the Fomer reservoir which has proved to be of ainple capacity.

The stability of masonry dam is the resistance which it
offers to the pressures or forces acting upon and trving to
destroy it. These pressures or forces are the weight of the
dam itself, the pressure of the water behind it, ice pressure,
ete.

In order that masonry dam is safe and able to resist
these forees there are certain well defined rules or laws laid
down with whieh the section of the dam must comply. These
rules are:

 That the forces acting upon the dam will not tumble it over, mm other words, that there will be no tension in the masonry.

 That they will not slide it down stream.

 That they will not cause crushing of the masonry.

The danger of the latter is only in high dams and need
not be considered in this case.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Tension  the pulling apart or lifting up of the dam
from its foundations or of one portion of it from another.
For instance, when dam tumbles over down stream, it is
lifted up on its water side and thrown over on its toe. What
causes the rupture along the water side is tension, and hence
why there should be no tension in masonry dams. To prevent tension, the factor of safety against tumbling over or
overturning as it is generally called, must not be less than
two. Hence, if dam has factor of safety against overturning less than two, it shows tension in the inmasonry, and is,
therefore, not properly designed and theoretically at least unsafe.

Again, if the pressure of the water against dam pushes
it down stream, the movement is called sliding, whether the
slide takes place along the foundation or at any other point
above the foundation. It is, therefore, necessary for dam
to be of such weight that the pressures or forces behind it will
not be able to move it. What this weight should be depends
upon the magnitude of the pressures behind it, and the frictional resistance of the sliding surfaces. If this resistance is
low, sliding will take place much easier than if high. For
instanee, if dam was built on finely polished granite
foundation, it would not take so much pressure or force to
slide it along as if the foundation was very rough one.
Hence, why it is advisable to have the foundations of dam
as rough and broken as possible.

A dam, however, may not slide on its foundation, but at
some point above its foundation, consequently, the frictional
resistance of the material composing the dam must be known
before its weight to resist the pressure behind it can be determined. This resistance is different for different kinds of
materials and is determined by experiment.

In the case of concrete masonry, it shows that if block
of this material is laid on block of the same material, the
weight or pressure required to slide the first block on the
second would be  or somewhat over one-half the weight
of the first block. Theoretically speaking. therefore, concrete

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

masonry dams must have weight equal to little over one
and one-half times the pressure of the water, ete., acting on
the dam, and, that if less than this weight, the structure will
slide down stream. This, of course, is only theoretical, as the
monolithie character of the masonry inereases the resistance
to sliding, though such is not reckoned, as the error made in
not doing so, is on the safe side.

When the weight of conerete masonry dain is little
over one and half times or fifty-four per cent greater than
the pressures acting on the dam, the structure  said to have
a factor of safety of one, and any dam with less factor of
safety against sliding than this, is theoretically not safe
structure.

A factor of safety against sliding of  ,’ considered
a reasonably high factor, and there is large number of dams
constructed in which the factor of safety against sliding does
not exd  .

With these factors of safety in mind as stated, it is evident that the dams designed by your Engineer for site ‘‘B’”
and site ‘‘T’’ would be safe, because the factors of safety for
the structure at ‘‘B’’ are against overturning and  
against sliding. While those at ‘‘T’’ are and respectively.

Another feature of these dams which EF think deserves
notice, is the slope on the up stream face from point under |
the ice line to the crest, thus enabling the ice on expansion
to creep on the slope. With foundations carefully determined
and the details properly worked out, the stability of either of
these dams is unquestionable. have, therefore, no hesitation in giving my endorsement to the whole project.

Respectfully subuiitted,
JAMES L. TIGHE,
Consulting Engineer.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Acting upon the advice of the Engineer this Board contracted for about feet of  -inch cast iron pipe with the
Donaldson Iron Company at figure much below what it
could be bought in the market for at the present time. A
force of about thirty men working under the direction of
the department foremen were occupied from about the middie of July to the first of November in laying this pipe from
the Fomer Reservoir to the location of the proposed dam.

During the coming summer we expect to erect the dam
with our own labor and have this whole project completed
ready for the following season.

About eight acres of land on the east bank of the Manhan Brook, owned by E. H. Bell, and similar tract on the
west bank owned by John Knapp were required for eonstruction purposes. Not being able to come to an agreement with
these owners as to what should be paid for their lands we
proded to exercise our rights under the Acts of by
taking the land by condemnation, and leaving the cost to be
determined by judicial prodings.

The gross receipts for the year were decrease of  from those of the previous year.

The receipts from water rates, were 
less than the year before, the falling off being due to the industrial depression.

The expenditures for all purposes amounted to This ineludes serial bond payment of transfer to Sinking Fund, taxes, City of Holvoke, eighteen months’ interest on bonds, and
$  expended for new extensions, etc.

The balance on hand at the close of the year is |

The reason for paying the extra six months’ interest during the present fiscal year was that five months of the six
months’ interest period would have elapsed, and the Commissioners felt that the balance would represent more accurately
the financial condition of the department with the interest
paid, than if the  was included in the balance, as it
would have to bé paid during the month of December. The
interest is paid to the City Treasurer.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

The Sinking Fund was increased making the
total in the fund which leaves the net indebtedness .

CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNT.
Cost reported November .... 

Increase during the vear:

Main pipe extensions .............  

Fomer extension ............... -.  
Hvdrants .........  ...        
White Reservoir .............. ..  
Meters...      

————  

$ 

Depreciation, two per cent .........  

#  

The east iron inains were extended feet. For location, size and length of extensions see Table A.

The length of cast iron mains is miles, and of temporary wrought iron,  miles. For location, size and length
of mains see Tables and C. '

Fifty-one gates were set in new loeations. The total
number to date is  For location and size see Tables
D and E.

Eleven hydrants were set in new locations, and eight
were replaced. The total number of pubhe fire hydrants is
 For location, ete., see Tables and G. Following Table is Summary of the fire service in the various mills in
the city, which is additional to the above.

@

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
STATEMENT OF SINKING FUND, NOVEMBER .
(Bonds Pue and  .)
Amount reported November ..........cc       
Increase during the year:
Interest on loans on real estate............ 
Interest on bonds.........    wee wee
Less accrued interest on bonds purchased,  
—————  
Interest on Bank Deposits.............. 
Add difference between purchase price and
par value of bonds bought in  ,
SQ$  each co.cc     cence eens  
——-.  
Transfer from Water Rents Account..........   
$ 
INVESTMENT,
Loans on real estate. .... cc.      cer ecsves 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric Light Bonds.............  
' City of Holyoke Water Bonds............  cseess  
City of Holyoke School Bonds.............. cc      eres  
City of Holyoke Sewer Bonds.............e    
Cash in Holyoke National Bank.................. 
Cash in Home National Bank............  
Cash in Park National Bank.................  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank...............  
Cash in City National Bank .............. 
————.  
$ 
Examined and Approved,
FRANK M. LIVINGSTONE,
Public Accountant.
Associated with
WALTER W. EATON CO.
December .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
DIVISION OF SINKING FUND TO MEET THE SEV: ERAL BOND ISSUES.
(Bonds Due in  ,
Loans on real estate................. 
City of Holyoke Gas and Electric
Tight Bonds ...................  
Citv of Holyoke Water Bonds .......  
City of Holvoke School Bonds.......  
City of Holvoke Sewer Bonds ......  
Cash in Holvoke National Bank.....  
Cash in Home National Bank .......  
Cash in Park National Bank ........  
Cash in Hadley Falls National Bank..  
Cash in City National Bank .......  
————— 
$ 
(Bonds Due in  )
Loans on real estate ............. .. 
City of Holvoke Gas and Electric
Inght Bonds ............... ..  
City of Holvoke School Bonds .......  
Cash in City National Bank ........  
* 
All of which is respectfully submitted. .
JESSE E. SHELDON,
HUGH McLEAN,
THOMAS J. CARMODY,
Water Commissioners.

REPORT OF WATEP BOARD  
SALARIES OF EMPLOYES OF THE DEPARTMENT.

, Patrick Gear, Superintendent .................. 
Alexander H. O’Brien, Assistant Superintendent...  
Patrick J. Lucey, Engineer ....................  
Albert E. Pickup, Registrar ..................  
Miss Katharine G. Sullivan, Clerk ..............  
Miss Helen A. Hanley, Assistant Clerk ..........  
James F. Cleary, Chief Inspector ...............  
Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector ..................  
Eugene F. Kane, Inspector ...................  
Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector ...................  
Daniel F. Cray, Inspector .................. --  
Daniel F. Crowley, Caretaker at White Reservoir..  
Mrs. Catherine D. Powers, Caretaker at Fomer

Reservoir oo...      

Report of the Superintendent
To the Honorable Board of Water Commisstoners:

GENTLEMEN: have the honor to present to you the
report of your superintendent for the vear ending November .

The condition of the water in the reservoirs for the past
vear has been very good. During the fall months shght
odor was noticeable in the water from Ashley Ponds, but its
presence was for only short time, and but few complaints
were received. The water from the High Service Reservoir and
from the Whiting Street Reservoir was excellent during the
whole year. The water in the White Reservoir has continued to improve, as expected, until now it is very satisfactory.
Very little dirty water in the mains was reported. On the
whole the year was unusual for the small number of complaints received on account of tastes and odors, or from
dirty water in the mains.

The quantity of water reported in storage in our local
reservoirs December  is million gallons more this vear
than in  distributed as follows: In Ashlev Ponds  
million gallons, in High Service Reservoir million gallons,
and in Whiting Street Reservoir million gallons. This.
gain in storage is due partly to the large rainfall during the
past summer, and the lessened use of water for lawn and garden sprinkling. Our consumption for the past vear has been
  gallons per day, per capita. This is eleven gallons, per
day per capita, less than in  due also partly to the rainy
season but partly to the good condition of the plumbing fixtures throughout the city: the number of leaks reported by
the inspectors being considerably less than last vear. winter and spring season of average rainfall will fill all our reservoirs except perhaps the High Service Reservoir to overflowREPORT OF WATER BOARD rc)
,ing, something that has not occurred for several years. A
large factor in holding up the storage in Ashley Reservoir
was the volume delivered into Fomer Intake Reservoir from
the new White Storage Reservoir. Without this storage the
delivery into Ashley Reservoir from about June  to De— cember  would be the run of the brook, minimum of
about million and half gallons day. By opening the
gate in the White Reservoir gate house as much was allowed
to flow down the Manhan Brook into Fomer Intake Reservoir
as was required to keep the pipe at its full delivering capacity of gallons per day.

A new  -inch main was laid on Cross street from
Main street to Race street; on Race street from Cross street
to the junction of Race, Canal and Main streets, and on
Mosher street from Main street to Bowers street, connecting
with the  -inch main on Dwight street at Race street, and
the  -inch mains on Canal and Bowers streets. This new
main greatly improves the fire protection in this district by
maintaining the volume of water and pressure available in
case of big fires.

I recommend that this policy of replacing small mains.
be continued according to plans already developed by this
department.

New mains were also laid on streets given in table annexed to this report.

Our reforestration this vear was done on tract of land
on the Bray Brook water-shed which was cleaned up for
this particular purpose by the State Forestry Department.
The state appropriated  for the benefit of the unemploved of Holyoke, and the whole of this appropriation was

 spent in cutting and burning brush and deadwood under an
expert forester from the State Forestry department’s office.
The Water department planted white pine trees on
this tract, and recent inspection shows that only small
per cent failed to live and thrive. —

All the nozzles of the public fire hydrants are now
ehanged from clutch couplings to screw threads. This .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD

change has been made at the request of the Board of Fire
Commissioners to conform to the uniform practice of neighboring cities and towns.

The largest undertaking of this department during the
past vear has been the laying of the new main from Fomer
Reservoir pipe line to the proposed new dam on the Manhan

a Brook Southampton. This line is approximately four
thousand feet long and is laid without summit in the line
from end to end. Considerable ledge and large boulders increased the difficulties of laving this main which was done by
the day by this department. We were fortunate to have contracted for our material at favorable time since the present market price of iron is about one-third greater, and the
price of lead now is about twice what we were required to pay
last spring.

The buildings of the department at Commercial street
and at the various reservoirs are in good condition. New
roofs were put on the barns at Fomer and at the White Reservoir during the past summer. The temporary buildings
constructed for the laborers on the pipe line at Fomer are
still standing and will be available for the men engaged in
building the new dam next season.

I desire to place on record my appreciation of the services of John Sullivan, skilled and efficient workman in this
department for over thirty years, who died during the past
summer. This department never had more faithful employe, and his superiors and fellow workmen all regret his
loss.

Thanking vou for vour co-operation and unfailing courtesv of the past vear, this report is respectfully submitted.
Respectfully vours,

PATRICK GEAR,
Superintendent.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD mi
THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.

Eleven thousand, two hundred and sixty feet of mains
were laid, and one thousand, two hundred and  twentyseven feet were replaced, as given below, making the total
wileage of mains about miles.

In Bay State road feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Winthrop strect northerly. Cost .

In Brookline avenue feet of  -inch and feet of
 -inch pipe were laid from Northampton street westerly.
Cost .

In Bullard avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Montgomery avenue easterly. Cost .

In Charles street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Laurel street to Washington avenue. Cost .

In Coneord avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from end of pipe laid in westerly. Cost .

In Cross street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Main street to Race street. Cost .

In Elm street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Sargeant street southerly. Cost .

In Southampton feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Fomer pipe line up Manhan Brook. Cost .

In Greenwood avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from end of pipe laid in southerly. Cost .

In Hampton Knolls feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Northampton street easterly. Cost .

In Hillside avenue feet of  -inch pipe were laid
from Cherry street northerly. Cost .

In Morgan street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
end of pipe laid in easterly. Cost .

In Mosher street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Main to Bowers street, replacing the old  -ineh main. Cost
$ .

In Morrill avenue feet of  -inch and feet of
 -inch pipe were laid from end of pipe laid in to Nonotuck street. Cost. .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
In Norwood terrace feet of  -inech pipe were laid
from end of pipe laid in northerly. Cost .
In Orchard street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
end of pipe laid in northerly. Cost .
In Race street feet of  -inch pipe were laid from
Cross street to Main street, replacing the old  -inch and  mech mains. Cost 
In Ridgewood avenue feet of  -inech pipe were laid
from end of pipe laid in to Milton avenue. Cost .
In Winthrop street feet of  -inch pipe were laid !
from end of pipe in westerly. Cost .
Eleven hydrants were set at cost of located as |
follows: :
( In Bullard avenue, north side, about feet east |
of Montgomery avenue. |
( In Dwight street, south side. between Chestnut
and Elm streets.
( In Elm street at Sargeant street, southeast cor- !
ner. |
; In Hampton Knolls, north side, at easterly end. |
( In Hillside avenue, west side, about feet south !
of Cherry street.  
( In Irving street at Madison avenue, southeast ,
corner. |
( In Jackson street, north side, between Maple and |
Chestnut streets.
( In Lexington avenue, south side, about feet |
east of Northampton street. ,
 In Northampton street, east side, about feet :
south of Hiteheock street.
( In Norwood terrace, west side, at northerly end.
( In Oak street, west side, about feet north of
Appleton street. }
Eighty-four new services, making total length of  
feet, were laid at cost of and old services
were replaced at cost of .
|

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
RECORD OF CONSUMPTION FOR  AS REGISTERED BY VENTURI AND PREMIER METERS.
Constunption Daily Average
  in gallons Per Capita
December ......... ....  
JANUATV voce ee   
February  ...       
Mareh ..........  
April oo...     ee ees) 
Mayo ow.        
JUNC voce    ee      
JUV Loc       
August oo...  ...      )  
September ........... -.  
October ........... 
November ........  
Largest week, September to  gallons, or
  gallons per day per capita.
Smallest week, November to  gallons, or |
  gallons per day per eapita.
Largest dav, December  gallons, or  gallons per day per eapita.
Smallest dav, August  gallons, or gallons
per day per eapita.

METER WATER USED FOR DOMESTIC, PUBLIC, COMMERCTAL AND MANUFACTURING PURPOSES
DURING THE YEAR  .

Domestie .......         gallons
Publie wo...    ee  gallons
Commercial...  ce  eeee) gallons
Manufacturiug ....  ... ec    ee gallons

Total .....    eewallons

RO REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE A.
Statement of Location, Size and Length of Extensions Made in  .
 “ios ,
 S) oO Oo Lo)  io)
Location £€,). 
ae.))
  R
| |
Bay State road from Winthrop  street! .
northerly ...  ...          LOG |
Brookline avenue from Northampton. street! |
Westerly        tence   |
Bullard avenue from Montgomery avenue; |
easterly   ue cetuuerscctcecrccsea| |
Charles street from Laurel street to Wash-|
INGTON AVENUE ..... ce              
Concord avenue from end of pipe laid in
V  westerly...    ec wee     
Cross street from Main street to Race street  
Elm street from Sargeant street southerly..  
Fomer extension from Fomer pipe up the
Manhan brook .......-.    ees  
Greenwood avenue from end of pipe laid in
  southerly  ... cc tee     
Hampton Knolls from Northampton street
Casterly co.cc  ce wee  cect en  
Hillside avenue from Cherry street northerly  
Hydrants erepaeer rant gegnantaners  |
Morgan street from end of  -inch pipe laid
in easterly feet,  -inch galvanized,
iron pipe (temporary main) |
Mosher street from Main street to Bowers
StFE€t co cce     eesecc ree|  )
Morrill avenue from end of pipe laid in .
  to Nonotuck street...........      
Norwood terrace from end of pipe laid in
  northerly .......  ...         
Orchard street from end of pipe laid in
  northerly  ...  ce  ec      
Race street from Cross street to Main street  
Ridgewood avenue from end of pipe laid in |
  to Milton avenue...............  
Winthrop street from end of pipe laid in
  westerly rrttes aeaacecs|  
a —
Total number of feet,  ............ vo ens oe on
. |
Temporary main, ft.  -inch.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
CORRECTIONS MADE IN PIPE TABLE.
Grant street, feet of  -inch pipe instead of feet.
Howard street, feet of  -inch pipe instead of feet.
Ingleside terrace should be Vincent street.
Jefferson avenue should be Irving street.
Lynwood avenue, feet of  -inch pipe instead of feet.
Martin street, feet of  -inch pipe instead of feet.
Railroad street, feet of  -inch pipe instead of feet.

MAIN PIPE TAKEN UP AND REPLACED BY LARGER
SIZE.
a

, 
Location 
+ Ta
Mosher street from Main to Bowers street  
Race street from Dwight to Cross street  
Race street from Dwight street northerly  
Mo ae pp
Total number of feet,  
TABLE C.
Summary of small pipes laid for temporary mains divided as follows:
Feet
BENCH Look      teen  s  
Loo-mch oo. ce     ec ec  
LW -inch oo. ce   tees    
TYo-ineh vo...   tence  teces -INCH ..  ...          
Total  ...           se OSI
  miles.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE D,
| Summary of Gates Set in  .
Location No. Size
Bay State road at Winthrop street, feet
east of west line of Bay State road, in
north line of Winthrop street (ChapMAN) .o    ees in.
Brookline avenue at Northampton street,  
feet south of north line of Brookline
avenue, feet east of west line of
Northampton street (Smith) ......-. in.
Brookline avenue at Northampton street,  
feet south of north line of Brookline
; avenue, In west line of Northampton
street (Chapman) ............... .. in.
Brookline avenue at Milton avenue, feet
south of north line of Brookline avenue, |
in east line of Milton avenue (ChapMAN) occ            ees in.
Bullard avenue at Montgomery avenue,  
feet, inches west of east line of Montgomery avenue, feet, inches south
of north line of Bullard avenue (ChapMAN) Lee        ts in.
Charles street at Laurel street, feet south
of north line of Laurel street, feet
west of east line of Charles street (CW.
W. EB.) Lee   eens in.
Charles street at Washington avenue,  
feet west of east line of Charles street,
in south line of Washington avenue
(Chapman) .......    in.
Cross street at Main street, feet west of
west line of Main street, feet north
of south line of Cross street (Chapman) in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location No. Size
Cross street at Race street, feet east of east
line of Race street, feet, inches
south of north line of Cross street
(Chapman) .........  ...    ees in.
Dartmouth street at Nonotuck street, feet
west of west line of Nonotuck street,  
feet, inches south of north line of
Dartmouth street (Chapman) ........ in.
Elm street at Sargeant street, feet south
of north line of Sargeant street, feet
west of east line of Elm street (ChapMAN) Loc       tee ees in,
Fomer extension south of driveway at the
entrance to caretaker’s house at Fomer
Reservoir (Chapman) ............... in.
Fomer extension, for blow-off south of driveway at entrance to caretaker’s house at
Fomer Reservoir (Chapman) ........ in.
- Hampden Street at Nonotuck Street, foot,
  inches eastof west line of Nonotuck
street, feet north of south line of
Hampden street (P. C.) .......... in.
Hampton Knolls at Northampton street,  
feet, mehes east of west line of
Northampton street, feet south of
north line of Hampton Knolls (Smith) in.
Hampton Knolls at Northampton street,  
feet south of north line of Hampton
Knolls, in east line of Northampton
street (Chapman) ................. in.
Hillside avenue at Cherry street, feet.
north of north line of Cherry street,  
feet, inches east of west line of Hillside avenue (Chapman) ............ in.
Main street at Mosher street, feet,  
inches south of north line of Mosher

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location No. Size
street, feet west of east line of Main
street (Chapman) .............. .. in.
Main street at Cross street, feet north of ]
south line of Cross street, feet,  
inches east of west line of Main street
(Chapman) .........      in.
Montgomery avenue at Bullard avenue, |
feet east of east line of house No.  
Montgomery avenue, feet, inches
south of south line of house Na.  ,
Montgomery avenue (Chapman) ...... in.
Morrill avenue at Jefferson avenue, feet
south of north line of Morrill avenue
in west line of Jefferson avenue (Chap in,
Mosher street at Bowers street, feet west
, of east line of Bowers street, feet,
  inehes south of north line of Mosher
street (Chapman) .............. in.
Mosher street at Canal street, feet,  
inches south of north line of Mosher
street, in east line of Canal  street
(Chapman) ...........    in.
Race street at Mosher street, feet south
of north line of Mosher street, feet
east of west line of Race street (ChapMAN) Lo.     et   cette ees in.
Race street at Dwight street, feet, inches
north of south line of Dwight street, |
  feet, inches west of east line of
Race street (Chapman) ............ in.
Race street at Dwight street, feet, inches
south of south line of Dwight street,  
feet, inches east of west line of Race .
street (Chapman) ............ in.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  )
Location No. Size
Race street at Dwight street, feet, inches
south of south line of Dwight street,  
feet, inches west of east line of Race
street (Chapman) ............... .. in.
Race street at Cross street, feet south of
north line of Cross street, feet,  
inches west of east line of Race street
(Chapman) .......  ...      in.
Race street at Cross street, feet, inches
south of north line of Cross street,  
feet, inches west of east line of Race
street (Chapman) ............. in.
Race street at Cross street, foot, inches
south of south line of Cross street,  
feet, inches west of east line of Race .
street (Chapman) .............- in.
Race street at Cross street, foot south of
south line of Cross street, feet,  
inches west of east line of Race street
(Chapman) ........  ...      in.
Ridgewood avenue at Milton avenue, feet
south of north line of Ridgewood avenue, in east line of Milton avenue
(Chapman) ..........       in.
Washington avenue at Charles street, feet
south of north line of Washington avenue, in east line of Charles street
(Chapman) ..........       ees in.
Winthrop street at Calumet street, feet
west of east line of Calumet street,  
feet south of north hne of Winthrop
street (Chapman) .................. in.
Gates for Hydrants. )
Cross street at Race street, feet south of
hydrant (P. C.) ................. in.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Location No. Size

Dwight street between Elm and Chestnut

street, feet, inches north of hydrant

(Smith) ....  ...    ce  in,
Elm street at Sargeant street, southeast corner, feet west of hydrant (W. W.

| in.
Hampden street at Elm street, southwest

corner, feet east of hydrant (Chap  n,
Hampton Knolls at east end, feet south

of hydrant (Chapman)............. in.
Hillside avenue north of Cherry street,  

feet east of hydrant (Chapman) .... in.
Irving street at Madison avenue, feet east

of hydrant (Chapman) ............. in.
Lexington avenue, feet, inches north of

hydrant (W. W. E.) ............... in.
Main street at Jackson street, feet,  

inches west of hydrant (Chapman)...  in.
Northampton street, feet south of

Hitcheock street, feet, inches west

of hydrant (Smith) ................ in.
Northampton street at Allyn street, feet,

  inches west of hydrant (Chapman) in.
Norwood terrace at northerly end, feet,  

inches east of hydrant (Chapman)... in.
Oak street, feet north of Appleton street,

  feet, inches east of hydrant (ChapMAN) woo.        in.
Race street at Mosher street, feet south of

north line of Mosher street, feet,  

inches east of west line of Race street

(Chapman) ..........  ...       in.
Race, Main and Mosher street, feet north

of hydrant (Chapman) ............. in. ,

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Location No. Size
Race street, between Dwight and Cross
streets, feet west of hydrant (ChapMAN) ....    ec  teeeens in.
Sargeant street, between Maple and Chestnut streets, feet south of hydrant
(Chapman) ...........c    eaee in.
Total,  -in.;  -in.;  -in.;  -in.,  -in., and
 -in. Total,  .

S  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE F.
Summary of Hydrants Set in  .

ele!

Location (Corner or Side) and Make ;|  

, SIS\'e

&|.  

(oid
|
Bullard avenue, north side, feet east of Mont- |
gomery avenue (Holvoke)  
Dwight street, south side, between Elm and Chest- po
nut streets (Holyoke) ioe
Elm street at Sargeant street, southeast corner |
(Holyoke)  }
Hampton Knolls, north side, at easterly end (Hol- |
yoke) id
Hillside avenue, west side, about feet south of, |
Cherry street (Holvoke)  
Irving street, at Madison avenue, southwest corner |
(Holyoke) |
Jackson street. north side, between Maple and Chest-: |!
 mut streets (Ilolvoke) yi
Lexington avenue, feet east of Northampton! [| |
street, south side (Holyoke) Poly
Northampton street, east side, feet south of [|

Hitcheock street. (Holvoke) Poy TY
Norwood terrace, west side, at northerly end! '
(Holyoke) eo
Oak street, west side, feet north of Appleton; |
street (Holvoke)  
i ot |
| |

Total 
; |

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TABLE F.

Se

a

Hydrants Replaced.  

 

a eS
Appleton and Bigelow streets (Holyoke). (Replaces |

places  -in. single Holyoke)  
Dwight and Parker streets (Holyoke). (Replaces  -in.: |

double Pratt Cady)  
Hampden and Elm streets, southwest corner (Hol-! —
voke). (Replaces  -in. single Holyoke)  ,

High street, east side, between Division and Appleton |

street (Holvoke). (Replaces  -in. double Holyoke)  
Lyman and Chestnut streets, northeast corner (Hol. |
voke). (Replaces  -in. singla Holvoke)  ;
Main and Cross streets, southwest corner (Holyoke).' 
(Replaces  n. double Holvoke)  
Northampton street, west side, at John street (Hol-.  :
yoke). (Replaces  -in. single Holyoke)  
Walnut and Dwight streets (Holyoke). (Replaces  |
in single Mathews)  

Total,  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
SUMMARY OF HYDRANTS.
d-inch, one oUt ......ee          es  -inch, two outS .......    ee   ees  
H-inch, two Outs .....  ...      teens  -inch, two outS  ...      tee taee OOD
 -inch, three outs ........  ...       aees  -inch, one OUt ...... ec          d
 -inch, three outs ........ tee tee tenes  
CisteIMs  ...    een   etn  
Total. occ    ce cette te t    es T
SUMMARY SHOWING FIRE APPLIANCES IN CITY
OUTSIDE CITY HYDRANTS TO DATE.
  stand pipe outs.
d  single hydrants.
  double hydrants.
  triple hydrants.
  four-arm hydrants.
  cellar hydrant.
  mills using perforated pipe sprinklers.
 mills using automatic sprinklers.
  fire pumps at mills.
  tank containing gallons.
  tank contaming gallons.
  tank containing gallons. .
  tanks containing gallons each.
  tanks containing gallons.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
METERS IN USE.
aio) |aje|a/cl;e|
Make BS) (S/S) 
ee| |e 
ee oe a
; |
Crest 
Crown 
Empire 
Empire Compound 
Gem 
Hersey  
Keystone 
King  
Lambert  
Nilo I
Thomson Hy)
Trident 
Trident Compound  
Union 
Worthington  
Total,  .

 REPORT OF WATER BOARD
METERS ON HAND,  .

CROWN METERS,
  NCNM...     t     NO.  
S  INCH...          NO.  
B  MCh... ee      NO.  
B  MCN...           NO,  
Lo imch..   tee tNOL  
L oinch..         NO  
Lo oinch...     ete      NO.  
Lo oimch....       NO.  
L  imeh...         NO.  
L oimeh.. i... ce         NO.  
To oimehe      tee teers NO. ineh.....          ees NO, inch...  tee  NO.  
WWy  inch...   lee      NOW inch...      eetee  NO.  
DP neh.eeee     ees NO. THO.T H
 INCH...ee    te   ces, NO, inch...  ee     NO DOY, 

EMPIRE METERS.
BA nCH.Lece       et   NO, 
B  INCH...   ec    tee tee   te etes NO,  
B  inch...            NO,  
Linch...     eet cette eteetes NO.  
Wy inch...    NO.  inch...  ee   ete tenes NO,  

HERSEY METERS.
B  INCH...ee      NO.  
B  MCh oo.  ee     s NO. MCh...     NO. INCH...     tee tect   NO,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
B  MCh...ee     NO.  
B  MCh... ..        ees NO, neh...  tee tee te   eens NO  
Po aMNCH.        NO, INCh..       ete eens NO.  
KING METERS.
  inch...          NO,  
DQ INCH...    tee tee teeta et NO  
Ye INCh....  ce       t   NO.  
Be INCH...      tee tee tee tee s NO.  
Ye NCH... ..             NO.  
Se INCH...ee ete tee tee teeta  NO:  
SQ INCH...           NO.  
DQ INCH...     tee tee tee tee  ns NO.  
LAMBERT METERS.

Ye INCH...         rece ees NO,  
BA INCH...    eet teeter ete tes NO,  
THOMSON METERS.
 AM CC)  
WW, inch...      et eet et   NO. 
TV inch...    tet   et eter tee, NO. inch... ...        ees NO.  
Qo inch...   cet   tte teeterNO,  
TRIDENT METERS.

BA MCN. ok    t  ees NO, QITALY
  INCH... cette ete   NO,  
LT inch... ce      NOL inch...     ce     etes NO,  
WORTHINGTON METERS.

By inch...    eet eet eet eet  NO,  
BQ inch...          ees NO,  OT 

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Be INCHL oe     tee te ete tee NOD Inch... ..ee         NO.  
Ba INCH...     ete ween ees NO MCh...           ees NO, NCH...  eetee tec NO MCh...  ee      NO.  
B  INCH...          NO.  
B  Neh...     te     eens NO  
:  Inch...ee         NO. INCH... tee tee te ete NOL  
B  Inch... ..          NO,  
SA inch...   tee tee tee   es NO,  
BA INCH...           NO,  
BA MCN... ec   ete ete ete ete eree NO,  
BA NCH...          NO, oaineh.. c    NOZ  
L oinch. cc   ec  tee tee   NOK  
Lo imeh...             ees NO.  
Lo oimeh..ee         . NO.  
Lo oimeh..      NO  
Looinch....  eeees NO.  
Linch... ce      eet ees NO.  
Lo oineh...         NO.  
Lo omeh...     ete   NO.  
Lo oinch... ee       ees NO.  
L oinch.     tee   tee NO,  
Lo ooinch..        NO,  
Lo inch...   ce    tee   ees NO,  
Looainch  ...   wee   ees NO.  
Lo oineh. wee  ee    ees NO.  
Looimch.   ec       es NO, oinch...      tee     NO,  
Lo oaimch....ee       NO, oinch..         ete NO.  
Ll omeh....           NO, inch...   tee ettee NOW  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
TW, inch... ...         eae NO inch...        NOW  
V  inch...     tweet   NO. inch... ..   ses No. imch.....    ete   . NO.  
, MCh...     NO. inch...      et eetees NO. INCh..         NO. imch....      ete eta   NO. inch... ec          . NOL Inch...    tee  ees NO. Mech...ee  ee    NO.  
APPRAISAL OF STOCK.
Stock, tools, supplies, fixtures, ete., of the Superintendent’s division, on hand November amounting to
$ .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE J.
Showing Number and Classification of Water Takers.
Rated
AYt StUdIO Lo...  ce   tee   neces  
Automobiles ...  ...  e ene neues  
Automobile stations ....  ... cc          
Automatic dampers ......  ... cc    lee    
Awning manufacturers ........     
Bakeries  ...    cc te       
Barber shops ........  ...       ot
- Band room ........ cc   cc ete  nes  
Banks  ...  ...     cettenet ence tetas  
Baths ..  ...  ete ete te etc   ;
) Baths, extra  ...     ee      
. Beer bottlers  ...   ce tcc te cc ee    
Blacksmith and carriage shops............... 
Boarding houses ..........    tenet  
Boiler shop ..........       ete ete   teens  
: BoilerS ....    ce cetee tee     eens  
Bonded warehouse .......      teens  
Box Shop .......     tenet ween    
Bowling alleys ........... cc  t   teen    
Brass foundry ........         
. Broom manufactories .........     eens  
Brick yard  ... ...          eens  
Business colleges ........  cc       eens  
Carbonators  ...  teetenet ences  
Cattle...   ce ce   et       
Cement block works ...........        
Cement pipe works ........  ect     nes  
Cemeteries ....    ce         ees  
Chamber of commerce ...........   t   
Churches .......    ec ete ce     teat   
Church organS ......     tect   ees  
Cigar manufactories ........  c.  cc   ees  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Club houses  ...     teen tenes  
Club rooms .......      tee t   
Cold storage plants ...........            
Coal and wood yards ..........     teens  
Compressed air PUMPS .......  ...  eens |
ConventS ....  ...  tee ete  
CreaMerieS  ...   ee tee   teenies  
DentistS  ...   tee      ees  
Dressmakers  ...     et       D
Drug Stores  ...    tee   eet   eens dl
Dye works  ...  ... ce  cette cence   
Electric car sprinkler .......  ...    ete ]
Electric car hydrants ........  ...    ees  
Elevators, piston .........      eter  
EngineS  ...   cc   tee ten   teat   ates  
Express COMPANlES ........  ...     
FamilieS ........     tee et     t eees  
Fountain and rotary sprinklers ....................  
Furniture ware roOMsS ............ce te eens  
Gas holder .......  ...  ce     ete eens  
Gatehouse, IH. W. P. Co.  ... ec   ce  D
Glazed paper works ............:          
Greenhouses ...  ...          ees  
Grist mills ........ce  tee   ees  
GYMNASIUMS ........   tee         
HairdresserS .......      ete   ees  
Harness works ........  cc         
HOrseS  ...    tee tet   
Hose  ...   eett    eccese  
Hotels ....  ... cc  ce te teen eteees  
Hydraulic presses ........  ... cc        
Tee dealers  ...  ...    tee  tence eens  
Tron works ........  ... cet  ete      
LaundrieS ......  ...   ete   tec et aceneas  
Tithographers ..........  ...    cect cence    
Livery stables ......  ... ce    tee eens  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
LoGOMOTIVES       eet ees i]
Lodging rooms ........      tenes  
Log cabin oo.  tee   eens  
Lumber yards ......  ...     tee tee    
Machine shops .........   cect ec  sees  
Meat markets ....  ...        
Millinery parlors  ...  ...    eens  
Motors coc       tte et teen tees  
Mold coolers oo.  ...      tenes  
Municipal milk station  ...  ...     
Offices Lock ce ecte       )
Parks wo.  ce   te  te     nes ri
Passenger and freight depots ................. 
Photo studios ...  ... e eens  
Planing mills ..  ...  cc    te   tenes  
Plaverounds .......     eens  
Plumbers  ...   te   teeta nees  
Pool rooms .......       tee   eae  
Pressure PUMPS  ...  ...    te   te    
Printing offices  ...  ... eens  
Public bath rooms ............  ce        
Publie drinking fountains ..............-...  
Public samitaries  ...    ees  
Rag shopS ....... tee  ees  
RestaurantS ...  ...  cc      eens  
Road rollers .......  teenee nes  
Round houses ....  ...   tee teen  
Sausage manufactories  ...ee    
Schoolhouses ..  ...   ce       
Slaughter house        
Soda bottlers ...  ...         tees  
Soda fountains  ...  e,  
Standpipes .......  ...  tee tee tee tees ae)
— Steam and gasfitters ..... ..ee 
Steam stone polishing ........  ...       
Stone crusher  ... ..  ...     eens  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Stone yards ....... cc   teen   nes  
POY 
StorehouseS .......          ees  
Street sprinkling carts ........  ... cc      
Tallor ShOpS .......-.     tenet eet  
Tanks for glasses  ...  ...          
Telephone exchange .......-..         eens  
Theaters .....      ete   nee eens t
Tin Shops .......   cc      cent     
Tumbler washers  ...      eens  
Undertakers ..  ...   ce   tee te tee tee teat  
Urinals wo... ce   nee     eens  
Vacutum water cleaners  ...ete  
Vegetable sprinklers ...........     ees  
Veterinary hospitals .......  ...       
Wading pools .........    tee tee    
Water closets .........    t        
Water closets, extra ..  ...          
Water Power Co. ........    nee  
Watering troughs ..........  ...      
Wash motors .... ee ene ees  

Showing Number and Classifieation of Water Takers

Metered

Almshouse  ...     et       ene  
Alpaca mls .....   cc   teen      
Auger Bit Works ........  ...         eens  
Automatic dampers ........     
Automobiles ........          ts  
Automobile stations  ...  ...      eens  
BakerieS ......  ... cc             
Barber shops ........  ...  ete ete nee en    )
Bar works ........   ete et eet      
Baths wo... cc cc ce te   tee tee  eens  
Beer bottling  ...    ee eens  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Beer pumps .......  ...  eet eet          
Belt sShopS .......  ... cc   teen   eene  
Blacksmith shop ........  ...  tet        .
Blanket mill  ... tee     
Bleach and dye tanks ...........  t   
Bookbinding .......  ...   te te   teens  
Boilers  ...   et t   tee teetaes  
Brass foundry ........  ete eet   nes  
Brass window furnishings ............  eens  
OF oc  
Chemical laboratories .........  ...       
Churches ......  ... cc    tee       dD
Church organs .......    tee teen eens  
City hall  ...  ...    ce        eas  
Club rooms .......  ete et tee teen nes  
Cold storage plants ........  ...        
. Colored cotton .......  ...    ete eens  
Compressed air pumps ..........           
CondenserS  ...   tee een eas  
COnventS ......  cc   tet ew   etnes  
Cotton mills ....... tee     dD
Cotton thread and twine manufactories.............  
Crabbing machines ..............      
Crimping machines .............-           
Dandy roll manufactory ........-...      
DentistS  ...     tee tee    eas  
Domestic sclence ......  ...   ete ce ts  
Drug stOres .......    tee teens  
Drying kilns .........           
Dye works ......... cc  tee tee   eae  
Electric car station  ...  ...       
Electric light stations ............  ...        
Electric power stations ..............        
Electrotyping ........  ... cc       
Elevators by piston ...........  ... cc    ees  
Elevators by motor .........  ...   ce ec   eae  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
Engines  ... cc      etetee tenes  
Envelope manufactory ..........  ...    eens  
EXpresS COMPANY ......... cc     tee   eens  
FamilieS  ...     tc  ence eens  
Puilters ...  ...   ce tect       eens  
Fire engine houses .............         dD
Fountains  ... tee tee teens  
Gas WOrKS  ...  cc      
Gas holderS .........       tee eas  
Glazed paper works ..........       nee  
Greenhouses .....  ...     tee teens  
Grindstones ......,  ...  cc   ete ete tance neces  
GVMMNASINMS  ...   te ete eens  
Halls ....    te   tee teens  
Horses ...    cc  tee       )
FIOS@ cectteen   nee eens  
Hospitals  ...  ...    eet tenes  
Hotels ....    ce tee eet eens  
Home for aged people ......... ce  eae  
Hot water boilers .........  ...      eens  
Hydraulic press .....  ...         ees  
Hygienie drinking fountains ..................  
Tron foundries ........  ...   tees  
Job printing  ...     et     eens  
Laundries  ...  ...   ec tee tee   eens  
Livery stables ......  ec ec    cence  
Lodging rooms ........    tee   en   
Lumber vards .........  ...   ec ete     
Machine shops ..........  ...         
Mattress works .......  ...   tee  ees  
Meat markets .........  ...          
NUPSEPY oe ec te ete ete   nees  
Opera houses ........  ...    tee   en  
Paper machine ..........        

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
Paper mills  ...     ete teen    
Paper pad manufactories .............    aee  
Passenger depot .......  ...        ees  
Planing mills ..  ...      tee      
) Plumbers  ...  eet tee tenet eens  
Plush manufactory .......       
Police court  ...  ...      teens  
Post office  ...   ce tee     ene  
Pork packing houses ...........     ees  
Pool TOOM ....       teen   
, Print machineS .......       teens  
Brimers for pumps ..........       
Publie bath houses ......  ...  ...      nee  
Public bath rooms ............         
Public library ........           
Reading roOMms .........     eens  
RestaurantS  ...    c    tence eens  
Rotary washerS ..........         ees 
SaloOnS ...  ... cc       ete ete eens 
Schoolhouses ........          
Sereen plate works .........      ete    
| Sealing wax manufactory ..............      
Suk mills...tee tee   tee    
Singeing machines ........  ...             
Size tubs  ...    ete tenet      
Soap tanks  ...  cc ce  tee te   tenes  
Soda bottling  ... ...   cc etetenes  
Soda fountains ........      tee   eens a
Spraying machineS ..........      ees  
Spring bed manufactory ..........      
Steam and gas fitters .....  ... ce ees  
Steaming machines ..........          
Steam pump manufactory .........      
Steam stone cutting .......  ...    
Stone vard  ... ..   ce cc       eens ]

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

StOres co.cc cc ee ete    nes  
Tanks for glasses ......  ...   ce     ees dD
Tailor Shops ........   te   tee     eens  
Testing flume ........  ...     ettee  
Telegraph offices .........  ...   tee    
Tissue paper manufactory ...........      
Tumbler washers ...........      cease  
Urinals  ... ce ct tee   ees  d
Water closetS .....  ...  tee tect     
Water wheel governors .........  eens D
Water rolls for wire .........  ...  ees  
Wash motors .....  ... cc    tet eens  
Wire mills wo... tee tee eats  
Wire WCAVINE .....     
Woolen mills  ...  ...   teees  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
TABLE OF RAINFALL IN INCHES AT THE SEVERAL
RESERVOIRS,  .

High Whiting

Ashley Fomer Service Street
Ponds Reservoir Reservoir Reservoir
January,  
February,  
Mareh,  
April,  
May,  
June,  
July,  
August,  
September,  
October,  
November,  
December, 
Total,  

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
HEIGHT OF WATER AT WHITING STREET RESERVOIR,  .
December dth, feet inehes:  th, feet inch:
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
January  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th.
  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th. feet  
inches. 
February  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet;  th, feet inches.
March  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th.
  feet inches;  th, feet inch.
April  rd. feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th.
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
May Ist. feet inches:  th, feet inches;  th.
  feet inehes:  nd, feet inches:  th. feet inches,
June dth, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
July  rd, feet inches:  th. feet inches;  th.
  feet inches;  th, feet inches:  st, feet inches.
August  th, feet inches:  th, feet inches:  st,
  feet inches;  th. feet inches.
September  th, feet inches:  th. feet;  th.  
feet inches:  th. feet inches.
October  nd, feet inches:  th, feet inch;  th,
  feet inches:  rd, feet. inches:  th. feet inches
November  th. feet:  th. feet inches:  th,  
feet inches:  th, feet inches.
Average height for vear. feet inches.

| REPORT OF WATER BOARD
HEIGHT OF WATER AT ASTILEY PONDS,  .
December  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  th,

  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

January  nd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

February  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches. .

March  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

April  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inch;  th,
  feet  inches;  th, feet inches.

May Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th, feet |
inches.

June doth, feet inch;  th, feet inch;  th,  
feet inch;  th, feet.

July  rd, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet inches.

August  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  st,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.

September  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.

October  nd, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inch.

November  th, feet inches;  th, feet;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.

Average height for vear, feet.

rn

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
HEIGHT OF WATER AT HIGH SERVICE RESERVOIR,
 .
December  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
January  nd, feet inches;  th, feet;  th, feet
  inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
February  th, feet inches;  th, feet;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inches.
March  th, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inch;  th, feet inches.
April  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
May Ist, feet inches;  th, feet inches; loth,
  feet inches;  nd, feet inches;  th. feet inches.
June dth, feet inches;  th, feet inch;  th,  
feet inches;  th, feet inch.
July  rd, feet inches;  th. feet inches;  th,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches;  st, feet inches.
August  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;  st,
  feet inches;  th, feet inches.
September  th, feet inch;  th, feet inches;
 th, feet;  th, feet inches.
October  nd. feet;  th. feet inch;  th, feet
  inches;  rd, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
November  th, feet inches;  th. feet inches;
 th, feet inches;  th, feet inches.
Average height for vear, feet inch.

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
STATISTICAL TABLE RELATING TO THE HOLYOKE
WATER WORKS, NOVEMBER. .

Population, Water Department census of .

Date of constrnetion,  .

Works owned by the city.

Source of supply—two contiguous natural lakes, and storage
reservoirs, three and one-half miles from the eity, two
mountain streams and storage reservoir, and the southwest branch of the Manhan river—intake and  storage
reservoirs at Southampton and Westhampton.

Mode of supplv—gravity.

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
FINANCIAL.
| Receipts.
A. Water rates, fixed..................... 
B. Water rates, metered...................  
C. Total receipts for water................  
D. Service pipe ......... cc    eens  
E. All other sources ..........    
F. Gross receiptS .........       ees 
G. Cash balance, December .........  
$ 
Expenditures.
AA. Management and repairs .............. 
BB. Services and repairs ............... ..  
CC. Running expenses for ............. 
DD. Interest on bonds ....................  
EE. Total maintenance .................... 
FF. Taxes, City of Holyoke................  
GG. Bonds, White Reservoir ...............  
HH. Transfer to sinking fund ..............  
II. Materials and labor, ete. ...............  
JJ. Cash on hand and in banks .............  
KK. Balance to construction ................  
$ 
Construction.
Balance .......  ...     ce   es »$ 
LL. Extension main pipe.......... 
MM. Fomer extension ............  
NN. Hydrants ...............  
OO. White Reservoir .............  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
PP. Meters co... e  
—-——--—-—  
QQ. Depreciation, per cent.......  
RR. Net cost of works to date... ... 
SS. Bonded debt ................  
W. Value of sinking fund, November  .............  
N. Net debt oo...  ... ..  
CONSUMPTION,
 Population,  Water Dept. census...  Population on line of pipe, Water Dept.
CENSUS  ...         Population supplied, Water Dept. census.  Total gallons consumed for year........  
). Passed through meters and B........  Average daily consumption, gallons.....  Gallons per day to each inhabitant......  Gallons per day to each consumer )...  
|  Gallons per day to service tap..........  
DISTRIBUTION.
. Ll. Kind of pipe used—wrought and east iron
and lead hned.
 From  -inch to inches. |
 Extended, feet larce.
 Jiscontinned  ...    feet
®. Diseontinued, temporary mains less than
  none
 Mains,  -inch and upward ........... miles
. Temporary mains, less than inches...  miles
 Total leneth of distribution. ......... miles
 Number of leaks in city.  in Fomer line
NONE Lovee   ce          Cost of repairs per mile............... HWydrants added oo...  ... .. ....  
[

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  .) Hydrants now in use, public and  
private hvdrants (see Table G).
 Wydrants frozen ........... .....  Hydrants repaired ..................  HWydrants replaced .............  Stop gates added .................. .. Stop gates now in use (see foot Table E).  Stop gates less than  -inch ............  Number of blow-off gates ......... ...  Range of pressure on main at office, per
day and night, to pounds.
Main street, per day and night, to
  pounds.
 Stand pipes in use ..............  my)
 Gates repaired oo...  cea)
 Gates replaced ........... eae.  Gates taken out oo...  ...   none
SERVICE.
 Cement, rubber lined, enameled, cast. iron .
lead lined. tin lined and galvanized.
 From to  -inch size of service.
 Leaks  ...       Cleaned and repaired .................  Frozen services thawed out ............ ]
 Replaced serviees ........ ..     Extended ......  ...   feet
 Discontinued ........  ...      D
 Total now in use (estimated) ......... feet
B Serviees added oo... cc   Number now in use .........   Average length of service ......... .. feet
All sizes, Average cost of service in  ... to in.
inclusive, Meters added ...............  os
 Meters discontinued .............  

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
 Meters repaired ....... ..    Meters now in use ............  Indicators on elevators and organs ......  Service boxes repaired .............  Water shut off ...................  
$ Water turned on .............. Leaks—faueets,  water closets, Leaks repaired—faucets,  water elosets, ..... ..... ...   Valves sealed in imlls .................  Seals broken in mills ...............--. 

I

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  
CIVIL ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER BOARD,
FROM THEIR COMMENCEMENT TO
NOVEMBER .
WATER COMMISSIONERS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WORK ELECTED
BY THE TOWN OF HIOLYOKE.,
William B. C. Pearsons, Chairman of the Board, elected
Mareh term expired February .
John Delaney, elected March term expired February .
John E. Chase, elected Mareh term expired
 .
Dennis Higgins, elected March term expired
February |
Joel Russell, Treasurer of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .
 J. P. Buckland, Clerk of the Board, elected March  ,
 term expired February .
L. P. Bosworth, successor to John E. Chase, elected
March term expired February .
C. W. Ranlet, ex-officio, as Town Treasurer.
ENGINEERS AND SUPERINTENDENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF
WORK.
Messrs. Shedd and Sawyer of Boston, Mass., consulting
engineers.
EK. C. Davis, engineer and superintendent.
Davis Ellsworth, engineers, sucded E. C. Davis May,
 .
 Moses Stevens, pipe inspector. ,
WATER COMMISSIONERS ELECTED BY THE CiTy COUNCIL.
J. P. Buckland, elected February term expired
February .
Dennis Higgins, elected February term expired
January .

  REPORT OF WATER BOARD
James Gt. Snuth, eleeted February deceased July
  .
J. A. Sullivan, elected February term expired
January .
James F. Allyn, elected February term expired
January .
C. LH. Heywood, elected July term expired January .
Timothy Merrick, elected) January term expived January ,
Maurice Lynch, elected January term expired
January d,  .
James E. Delaney. elected January resignation
accepted January ,
Moses Newton, elected January term expired
January .
James J. Curran, elected January resignation
accepted February .
Martin P. Conway, elected January term  ex- |
pired January |
Charles D. Colson, elected January term expired |
| February .
John J. Sullivan, elected January term expired
February ;
Thomas F. Greaney, elected January term expired February .
Joseph A. Skinner, elected January term  expired February .
Maurice Lynch, elected January deceased January .
Arthur M. French, elected February term expired February ,
IIugh MeLean, elected January term expired
February .
Michael J. Dovle, elected January term expired
February .
Thomas J. Carmody, elected January  .
j

REPORT OF WATER BOARD  

Jesse E. Sheldon, elected January ,

Thomas J. Lynch, elected January term expired
February |

Hugh MeLean, elected January .

OFFICERS OF THE THLOLYOKE WATER Works.

Moses Stevens, Superintendent, appointed February  ,
 term expired April resigned.

Daniel Heywood, Collector, appointed February ;
term expired October  :; sueded by E. M. Bolton.

E. M. Bolton, Registrar, appointed October :
term expired June resigned.

E. P. Clark, Registrar, appointed July resigned
January .

J. C. Sullivan, Registrar, appointed January ;
resizned January .

A. E. Pickup, Registrar, appointed February .

John D, Hardy. Superintendent, appointed May ;
term expired April .

John J. Kirkpatrick, Superintendent, appointed May  ,
 resigned April .

Patrick Gear, Superintendent, appointed May .

E. M. Bolten. Inspector, appointed July service
terminated Mareh .

James F, Cleary, Inspector, appointed Mareh .

Thomas E. Sullivan, Inspector, appointed March .

Eugene F. Kane, Inspector, appointed October .

Joseph B. Walsh, Inspector. appointed Oetober .

Daniel F. Cray. Inspector, appointed Oetober .

Digitized by Google

| OF THE |
To the Mayor, the Aldermen and the Citizens of Holyoke:  
At meeting of the School Board held on January  ,
 this complete report was presented, accepted and ordered printed. It is divided into ten parts, as follows:
PART I. Organization of School Board, district committees,
standing committees; time of meetings, various office
hours and school calendars.
PART II. Report of Committee on Annual Report from School
| Board to City Government.
PART III. Report of Superintendent of Schools to School Board.
PART IV. Illustrations. ;
PART V. Statistical Report of the Superintendent covering matters of attendance, accounts, distribution of pupils,
finance, etc.
PART VI. Special Report of Department of School Hygiene.
PART VII. Report of Attendance Officers.

‘ PART VIII. Organization and roster of the school system on Jatuary giving salaries paid, grades taught and
various attendance figures.

PART IX. List of books adopted for use in day schools and in
evening schools.
* PART X. Graduating classes for  .

IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM OF HOLYOKE
THERE ARE KINDERGARTENS, SPECIAL CLASSES,
ELEMENTAR\ GRADES, HIGH SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL SCHOOL AND EVENING SCHOOLS. BOYS
AND GIRLS FROM FOUR OR FIVE YEARS OF AGE
TO ABOUT EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE FORM AL- ;
MOST THE ENTIRE POPULATION OF THESE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM.
THE BUSINESS OF THE SCHOOLS IS TO EDU- |
CATE THESE BOYS AND GIRLS WITH PARTICULAR
| CONSIDERATION FOR EACH BOY AND EACH GIRL.
THE DUTY OF THE SCHOOLS IS TO DRAW OUT AND
SYSTEMATICALLY DEVELOP THEIR NATURAL POWERS, AND, BY INSTRUCTION, TRAINING AND DIS‘ CIPLINE, TO RENDER THEM ABLE AND DISPOSED
TO BECOME MEMBERS OF SOCIETY AND CITIZENS
OF CHARACTER AND INTELLIGENCE.
THE READER MAY ASK WHAT IS DONE HERE; ,
BY WHOM, HOW AND WHEN IT IS DONE; HOW :
: MUCH IT COSTS; WHETHER IT IS DONE WITH
ECONOMY, EFFICIENCY, AND SUCCESS. THE ANSWERS ARE IN THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THIS RE.
PORT.—(From Report of  Volume  .)

N
PART I.
The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for the
year was as follows:
At Large? DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS.
(JOSEPH B. WEIS.
Ward  —JOHN F. KENNEDY.
Ward  —DR. WILFRED G. DEROIN.
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH.
Ward  —PATRICK SHEA.
Ward  —JOHN J. O'CONNOR.
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH.
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS.
HON. JOHN H. WOODS, Mayor.
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for the
year is as follows:
Term Expires
At Large DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, January JOSEPH B. WEIS, January 
Ward  —MICHAEL GRANFIELD, January 
Ward  —VICTOR MESSIER, January 
Ward  —AUGUST H. BAUSH, January 
Ward  —PATRICK SHEA, January 
Ward  —JOHN J. O'CONNOR, January 
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH, January 
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS. January 
HON. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor.
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
The District Committees for are as follows:
HIGH SCHOOL:
MESSRS. O’CONNOR, BAUSH, WELLS.
FIRST DISTRICT:
MESSRS. SHEA, POTTS, O’CONNOR.

  REPORT OF’ THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
SECOND DISTRICT: ,

MESSRS. LYNCH, MESSIER, BAUSH.
THIRD DISTRICT:

MESSRS. GRANFIELD, WELLS, WEIS.

The Standing Committees for are as follows:
RULES, TEXT BOOKS AND COURSES OF STUDY:

MESSRS. GRANFIELD, BAUSH, O’CONNOR.
SALARIES AND FINANCE:

MESSRS. WELLS, WEIS, SHEA.
PRINTING AND SUPPLIES:

MESSRS. BAUSH, O’CONNOR, LYNCH.
SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS:

MESSRS. WEIS, LYNCH, POTTS.
EVENING SCHOOLS AND ATTENDANCE:

MESSRS. WELLS, MESSIER, GRANFIELD.
BUILDINGS, JANITORS AND SOCIAL CENTERS:

MESSRS. O’CONNOR, SHEA, POTTS.

The organization of the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education for is as follows:

Term Expires
FREDERICK S. WEBBER, January 
JOHN J. O'CONNOR, January 
EDWIN D. WELLS, January 
MRS. CHARLES A. CHASE, January 
JOSEPH B. WEIS. January  |
DENNIS F. LYNCH. January 
AUGUST H. BAUSH, January 
WILLS M. FLEMING, January 
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, January 
AUGUST H. BAUSH, Chairman.
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary.

The sub-committees of this Board for are as follows:
RULES, SALARIES AND FINANCE:

MESSRS. WEBBER. WEIS, LYNCH. .
SUPPLIES:

MESSRS. POTTS, O’CONNOR, BAUSH.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TEACHERS, COURSES OF STUDY AND TEXT BOOKS:
MESSRS. WELLS, FLEMING, MRS. CHASE.
The Advisory Committees to the Board are as follows:
METAL TRADES:
WILLIS D. BALLARD, Pearl. .
FREDERICK W. KOEGEL, Brown Avenue. |
CHARLES L. NEWCOMB, Fairfield Avenue.
BUILDING TRADES:
JOSEPH F. RANGER, Nonotuck. |
ISRAEL DUCHARME, Papineau.
WILLIAM F. O’NEILL, Congress Avenue. |
PRINTING: .
MICHAEL J. DOYLE, Elm.
ANDREW J. HUNTER, School.
JOSEPH LUSSIER, Nonotuck.
PAPER-MAKING:
. SIDNEY E. WHITING, Oak. .
HENRY P. CARRUTH, North Pleasant.
DAVID F. SULLIVAN, Maple. .
ELECTRICAL WORK:
GEORGE E. JOHNSON, Allyn.
ARTHUR J. NEWELL. Washington Avenue.
GEORGE M. PRENTICE, JR., Essex.
TEXTILE WORK:
FRED A. McLANE, North Pleasant.
WALTER H. ARMSTRONG, Nonotuck.
EUGENE R. ALDERMAN, Pearl.
HOME-MAKING:
MRS. JOHN J. FINN, Linden.
MRS. CAROLINE MOQUIN, Pine.
MRS. ALMA SCHIRCH, Walnut. |
SCHOOL BOARD.
A regular public meeting is held on the first Monday
evening of everv month at o'clock.
This is the only public meeting held during the month.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS The annual meeting for organization is held on the first ,
Tuesday evening in January at clock.

A meeting of all sub-committees is held on the last Monday evening of every month at o’clock.

A meeting of the sub-committee on supplies is held on
or about the  th of everv month at o’clock in the evening.

. BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.

A regular meeting is held on the first Tuesday evening
of everv month at o'clock.

SUPERINTENDENT. )

In office on school days from a. m. to m., and
from to p. m., except on Fridays.

In office on Saturday mornings and Tuesday evenings by
appointment.

* SECRETARY TO SUPERINTENDENT.

The office hours are: a. m. to a. m., and  .
p. m. to p. m. on all school days. On Saturdays and during vacations, a. m. to m.

OFFICE.

The office is open from a. m. to p. m. on all school
days, and from a. m. to m. on Saturdays and during the
summer vacation. During other vacations and school hollidays the hours are from a. m. to m., and p. m. to:
  p.m.

The office is closed on all legal holidays.

ATTENDANCE OFFICERS.

The attendance officers are in the office on all school days
from p.m. to p. m. and on Monday and Wednesday evenings, except during vacations, from to  .

The hours on Saturdays and during the summer vacation
are from a. m. to m. During other vacations and school

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
holidays the hours are from a. m. to m. and p. m. to
) p.m.

MINORS’ CERTIFICATES.

The hours for issuing employment or educational certificates to minors are from a. m. to p. m. on all school
days; from to on Monday and Wednesday evenings except during vacations; from a. m. to m. on Saturdays
and during the summer vacation; and from a. m. to  m.,
and from p. m. to p. m. during other vacations and
school holidays.

SCHOOL PHYSICIANS.
In office, for signing of employment cards, every school
day from a. m. to a. m., and a. m. to m.;
. p. m. to p. m. and p. m. to  p.m. Saturdays
and vacations, a. m. to m.
SCHOOLHOUSE AGENT.

The schoolhouse agent is in the office from a. m. to
  a. m., and from p. m. to p. m. on all school days.

The hours on Saturdays and during all vacations are
from a. m. to m.

‘The school calendar for is as follows:
DAY SCHOOL TERMS.

Winter term began January ends February  ,
 .

Spring term begins March ends April .

Summer term begins May ends June .

Fall term begins September ends December  ,
 .

 ‘Winter terin begins January .
EVENING SCHOOL TERMS.
High School.

Term of began September ends

March .

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Term of begins September ends
March |
Vocational School.
 Perm of began October ends Mareh
  se
Term of begins October ends March
  .
. Elementary Schools.
Term of began October ends February
  .
Term of begins October ends February .
]

PART II.
REPORT OF THE SCHOOL BOARD .
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

The year ending November has had its full

share of events bearing on the progress of our schools. The

basis of much of our endeavor, the past year, has been the
health of the child—the physical along with the mental development. As result the Superintendent and the School
Board believe that great advance has been made in practical, educational methods. As health is the foundation of all
suecess and happiness, this important fact is being borne
in mind through the entire school system. And then, too,
one of the great aims of the Superintendent and School
Board is to see to it that any child who may be handicapped
(and he may be through no fault of his own) shall have the
opportunity to become useful citizen according to the ability which is in him. Such course means economy in the
long run, and also great material increase in the industrial
assets and strength of the community.

It is the purpose of your School Board merely to give
an outline of the progress of the schools. For matters in detail we refer you to the reports of the Superintendent and
the heads of departments.

HIGH SCHOOL. ;

The High School was never in so strong position as it
is today for training the young in paths that lead to good
citizenship. The atmosphere in the school is fine, and there
is ‘‘pull-together’’ spirit that is very noticeable. Many
people do not realize the complexity of the High School. It

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
is vast corporation in itself. We wish that more of our
people would visit the school. By so doing they would be
better aequainted with the great work being done there.
Visitors are always welcome.

HIGH SCHOOL LIBRARIAN.

The Special Departments Committee and the Superintendent, after considering several candidates, recommended
to the full Board that Miss Lillian W. Fay, who was not a
candidate, be elected as Librarian of the High School. Miss
Fay was unanimously elected to this responsible position.
She was at the head of the English department for twentyfour years. She ranks next to the Vice-prineipal and has
been chosen Dean of the High School.

Every large high school today, almost without exeeption, has hbrarian. One of the great essentials in procuring an education is to be able to get knowledge bearing on
any subject, and to be able to get it quickly. An efficient hbrarian means much time saved to the students, and broader
scope of knowledge. Miss Fay, through her long association with the High School, brings to the position large
and ripe experience.

THE COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT.

We called the special attention, in last vear’s report, of

 the busmess men and manufacturers of the city to the Commereial department, and asked that they give it their support. We are pleased to note that our appeal was not in
vain, and as result the demand for office help has been
continuous through the year. We wish to repeat in part
what we said last vear: ‘‘It would be worth while for those
interested to visit this department and note the fine work
done. It stands out clearly that such department is not
run for profit as the so-called ‘commercial schools’ are, and,
therefore any information given as to the qualifications of
the pupils will be unbiased.” We ask every one in this vi. REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
‘to get in touch with Principal Conant or Mr. Clement, who
is at the head of the department. Our citizens support the
schools through taxation. It is up to the people to be loyal
to them. The new model office adds much to the dignity of
the department and especially means much in actual office

' practice to the seniors who take this course.

ATHLETICS.

We wish it clearly understood that the school authori ties do not aim to make athletics the predominating feature
in our schools. We speak thus emphatically at this time so
that there will be no misunderstanding. Yet, athletics have
always been prominent feature in the life of all progressive
nations since the dawn of civilization. Nothing is more exhilarating or more conducive to fine spirit in the young
than competitive games—that is, of course, if they are conducted in fair manner—and such is the aim of those who
conduct this department. There are brilliant pupils m
athletics as well as brilliant pupils in books. It  quite common to have fine combination of both. Observation teaches
us, and it is the testimony of our most prominent educators,
that athletics help many to be better students. Certainly fine
‘scholarship is no handicap to fine standing in athletics.
Athletics in our High School are not merely for the few, but
for the many as far as their welfare and ability will permit.
Underlying everything else in this department is the physieal culture, the physical development so that the pupil will
have sound body. This is the policy of the school authorities, and this policy is carefully carried out by those in immediate control.

LUNCH COUNTER.

The new lunch counter was installed during the summer months in the so-called old gymnasium in the basement
of the High School. Today it reminds one of well-fitted,
‘up-to-date cafe. There are one hundred and twenty chairs,

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS :
forty-seven tables with six stools to table. The counter is
in the form of hollow square with two wings, each about
twenty feet in length. large steam table is in the hollow
part of the square. The administration of this department
has been plaeed in charge of the Superintendent of Schools,
the Principal of the High School, the heads of the Commercial and Domestie Science departments, the manager of
the lunch counter, and the Chairman of the High Senool
Committee, who is also Chairman of this Committee. As a
result of the largely increased space and the conveniences for
cooking and serving, the patronage has doubled. Many
parents allow their children to eat full lunch here, finding it cheaper than they can produce like one at home. ,
The school authorities aim only to meet expenses.
ELEMENTARY DAY SCHOOLS.

Throughout the whole school system we are pleased to
note the spirit generally that spells co-operation—and cooperation means success. The so-called three R’s, reading,
writing and arithmetic, have received special attention
throughout tne grades.

MANUAL TRAINING.

Manual training is taking on an added interest from
year to year. Our leading educators realize that it as important for the great mass of girls and boys to be handtrained as it is for them to be mentally and physically
trained. These three qualifications make splendid combination for success. This method helps the pupil to find himself, and having found himself early he has won years of
extra usefulness for himself and the community. There is
a two-year course in manual training in the High School. It
is the desire of the Superintendent and the Board to extend
this course to the junior and senior years, thus enabling
those who seek technical education to be well prepared for
entering the technical schools.

| REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.

We wish the public to appreciate more fully the splendid work that is being done in the Evening High School, so,
on the recommendation of the Superintendent, your Board
voted to have public night in February, at which time
the citizens will be cordially invited to inspect the various
departments. The date will be announced later.

The Civil Service class has nearly doubled this year. |
This department means much to those who are desirous of
occupying higher positions. Spanish has been introduced.
In taking this step the school authorities are bearing in mind
that Americans must be familiar with this language, if we
are to improve our relations commercially or otherwise with
South America, Cuba, Porto Rico and other Spanish-speaking countries.

The various departments of the Evening High School are
of such high standard generally that it is somewhat difficult to select any particular one for special mention. We are
pleased, however, to mention the class in English and Debating taught by Edwin J. Keough. Mr. Keough is an instructor of English and Debating in the Day High Sehool. It
would be worth while for citizens to visit this class and observe how well these students can think on their feet. The
class will present play in March. Last year we called special attention to the Commercial department of the Evening
High School. While high type of womanhood and manhood
is noticeable throughout the entire school, it is none the less
so in this department. We would ask the citizens when in
need of faithful, reliable office help to call up P. J. Garvey,
the Principal, either at the Evening School or at his office on
High street.

LECTURE COURSE.

The High School lecture course has earned the reputation
of being most excellent, and is greatly appreciated by those
who attend. There are five lectures, some of which are worth
the price of the whole course—one dollar.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
ELEMENTARY EVENING SCHOOLS.

These schools are accomplishing much to help young men
and young women to live on higher plane. With some the
attendance is compulsory, to comply with the state law to the
effeet that all illiterate minors between the ages of sixteen
and twenty-one shall attend evening school. However, the
great majority attend these schools beeause they are anxious
to improve themselves so that they can take advantage of the
great opportunities offered in this country. With all the instruction in books, the school authorities, principals and teachers sce to it that the pupils are taught the meaning, the value
and the responsibilities of American ideals; that this land is
not one of the dollar opportunity only; that they who enjoy
this great privilege must be brought to realize that the
precious liberties which they enjoy they must be prepared and
willing to defend.

THE JOSEPIDT METCALF ART COLLECTION.

Mr. Joseph Metcalf, one of our generous and publicspirited citizens, after whom the Joseph Metcalf Grammar
School building is named, has presented to the school most
valuable colleetion of art pictures. Mr. Metealf and the principal, Mr. Michael J. Greaney, devoted much time in considering vast number of subjects before final decision was
reached. The collection, as selected, is divided into three
groups as follows: History, Architecture and Seulpture, and
Painting. History depicts scenes and events that illustrate
the historical progress of our country. The sehools of architecture and seulpture represent the treasures of the Greek,
English, Italian and French eivilizations, and the best examples of the schools of painting are represented in the Spanish, the French, the Enghsh, the Dutch and Flemish masters.
In all there are about three hundred reproductions in whieh
there are no duplicates-—all of which were carefully selected
with the end in view of having eallection of pictures of the
highest educational value to the pupils and the community.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Mr. Metealf’s magnificent gift is deeply appreciated by the
school authorities, the people of Elmwood and the public generally. The estimated value of the collection, if bought at
catalogue prices, would be about four thousand dollars. The
building was thrown open to the public Sunday afternoon,
June  at which time many people inspected and greatly
enjoyed this rare collection of art pictures.

SOCIAL CENTERS.

It is to be regretted that more of our school halls are not
open for social gatherings. The West Street School is now
well lighted, and the improvement is greatly appreciated by
the people in that district. The Hamilton Street and the
Springdale Schools both have good halls or large meeting
rooms, but the lighting is so poor that the halls can only be
used in the daytime.

In the early days of our country, and even today, the
schoolhouses in the rural districts were the great meeting
places. It was here that the famous lyeeums and various social gatherings were held, which had much to do in shaping
the demoeraey of our people. These people enjoyed the freedom of the country. How much more urgent is the need of
social centers in our congested cities with the many races.
There should be place where all can meet on common
ground, where they may learn the prineiples which make for
citizenship in this free country. It is hoped that the Hamilton Street and Springdale Schools will be properly lhghted
in the near future and thus meet great need in these seetions.

SAVINGS BANKS.

This department was first started as an experiment in
the Wilham Whiting School, the Ingleside School, and the
Springdale School in February,  The pupils of these
schools took up the idea in such an encouraging manner that
banks were established in other schools. Last September the
department was further extended, and today the banks are

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCIIOOLS

established in all our elementary and grammar school buildings. The results are very pleasing to the school authorities.
These banks mean much to the rising generation, the desire
to have bank aecount teaching the pupils to be thrifty. As
the teaching of thrift constitutes an important factor in the
education of the young, then the department of School Savings Banks really becomes legitimate part of the curriculun of our school system. The total amount in deposit up to
December  .

SCHOOL GARDENS.

The old saying, ‘‘If you do not find something for the
boy to do, the devil will,’’ is as true now as it ever was. For
many years the prineipals of the Hlighland and West Holyoke
Schools have encouraged their pupils to raise vegetables and
flowers. The results have been source of great satisfaction
to teachers, parents and pupils. This year it was decided to
extend the school gardens to other schools in the city. Mr.
George D. Hearn, instructor of science in the High School,

| was elected supervisor of this department. The results were
beyond expectation. Over nine hundred boys and girls enrolled, and over six hundred remained in the contest for
prizes. Many were handicapped because of the lack of
proper soil and location, but it is expected that there will be
a good opportunity for all another season. These gardens
were inspected by member of the Hampden County League
and pronounced to be the best in the country. The boys and
girls derived great pleasure from the experiment. They
gained much useful knowledge, and, best of all, they were in
touch with nature in an interesting way.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF THE SCHOOLS.

Through an act of the legislature the Board was given
the control of the medical inspection in our schools. We believe this department will make for efficiency in this branch
of the Department of School Hygiene.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
CENSUS.

We believe that the census of the school children was
most accurately taken. In selecting the enumerators their
qualifications for the position were carefuly considered. The
census was taken under the guidance of the attendance officers, who have this department as well as that of truancy
down to science. The number of boys and girls between five
and sixteen years of age in the citv is as follows: Bovys,
 girls,  Total,  .

FINANCES.

Of special interest to the taxpayers is the way in which
the appropriations are being expended. Is every dollar properly accounted for? Is full value received for every dollar
put out? To the first question we wish to sav: The business
end of the Board of Education is conducted in painstaking
manner, and with as much system as there is in the oflice of
an up-to-date corporation. As to the second question we are
pleased to sav: It is the endeavor of your Board to obtain
the best goods for the least monev. All orders of any
amount are subject to bids, the lowest bidder getting the
contract  his goods are up to the standard required. We .

are pleased to announce that the cost per pupil in the High
School has been reduced. The books of the office are open
for inspection at all times. Thev show that during the
past sehool vear  was received for salaries and
$  for supphes. At the end of the year there was a
balance of  in salaries and  in supplies.
CENTRAL GRAMMAR SCHOOL.

Your attention has been called in several reports to the
urgent demand for central grammar school. We have realized the past vear that the time has arrived when action
should be taken. With this end in view portion of the Maple street playground, fronting Cabot street, has been se  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

lected for the site. The plans for the building have been

drawn, and will soon be passed upon by the Board.
REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS.

The Ilgh School was built sixteen vears ago and was
planned for seven hundred and fifty pupils. At the time it
was thought that the bwilding would be large enough for
twenty-five vears to come. The enrolment this vear is nine
hundred and minety-two, so it can be plainly seen that our
High School is in congested condition. It was the intention
of vour School Board to have accommodations in the gyvmnasium building for some of the departments of the High School,
but we were not able to bring this about at the time. The
State Board of Education conditionally allowed the Board of
Trustees for Vocational Edueation to use the sechoolrooms in
the gymnasium, with the understanding that suitable building would soon be erected for the Vocational School. The Vocational School has already outgrown its accommodations. As
soon as the school rooms the gymnasium are vacated, your
Board will utilize the rooms for the High School. In the
meantime we were obliged to do the best that we could under
the conditions as they existed. To releve the congestion

even in small degree it was necessarv to make the following
changes: The Domestic Science department was removed from
the two rooms on the third floor to rooms in the basement next
to the kitchen used by the lunch counter, and the lecture
room was converted into two class rooms. These changes gave
us four good class rooms which help out quite materially. A
room on the second floor was transformed into model office
for the Commercial department, where the seniors come in
contact with the workings of an office as they actually exist.
Here those seeking office help will be given an interview.

Two rooms in the form of vertical addition were added
to the east wing of the Elm Street buildmg. These rooms
will relieve somewhat the congestion in this district. room
was fitted for printing in the Morgan school. New toilets have

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
been placed for the boys and girls in the Hamilton Street
school, and also new toilets for the bovs in the Nonotuck Street
school. The West Street school hall has been fitted up with
new lights. The Playground Commission took over the lot
formerly oceupied by the Emerald Hose House. This lot
is also valuable addition to the Wilham Whiting School.

RECOMMENDATIONS AS TO REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS.

While two rooms were added to the Elm Street building,
only one was finished. It is imperative that the other should
be finished at onee. The Morgan building needs painting
badly throughout. We hope this building will receive attention during the summer vacation. The need of shower baths
in both the Morgan and West Street schools is becoming more
manifest. The Board is co-operating with the Playground Commission, and rooms were used in the school buildings by the
Commission during July and August for manual training
work. The shower baths would be appreciated by both the
pupils of these schools and those who use the rooms and playgrounds during the swmmer months.

Attention was called in the last report to the great need

‘of new building and proper grounds for the West Holyoke
district. The time is not far distant when these needs should
be met. An assistant teacher is needed in this school. As it
is, one teacher is called upon to instruct all the grades.

CLASS IN CITIZENSHIP.

A special class in citizenship is being organized in the
Evening High School. As the name of the class indicates,
its purpose is to instruct those who intend to become Ameriean citizens what the ideal of American citizenship is, what
the duties and responsibilities are. Many people become fullfledged American citizens with only few years’ residence.
We believe this department will accomplish great deal of
good. Prominent lawyers, judges and pubhe officials will

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
address the class from time to time. Trips will be made to
places of public interest, such as the City Hall, Pubhe Library and County Court Louse.
Respectfully subnutted, |
. EDWIN D. WELLS
J. B. WEIS,
J. FJ. KENNEDY.

PARE III.
REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT
To the School Board of Holyoke:

The report of your Superintendent in was an inventory of the local publie school system. That of was
a general survey. The report made last year was sumnmary of school affairs. The report for  herewith submitted, records the results obtained through the adopting
of recommendations made in previous reports, and  additionally, treats of general topies relating to the work, progress, features and needs of the schools.

I. BOARD MEETINGS.

The School Board of continued the policy of
transacting busmess with despatch and thoroughness. The
business of was done in forty meetings; of in
forty-two meetings; of in twenty-eight meetings: and
of in eighteen meetings. This poliey of settling matters, this prompt and efficient disposition of affairs im the
Board. was feature of sehool work in  .

Il. FINANCES.

This department received the sum of  for
the fiseal vear ending November The amount expended was leaving on December a
balance of The expenditures for the fiscal vear  
amounted to It therefore cost but 
more to run the schools in than it cost in  It is
estimated that the amount spent in  plus  will
be needed for  .) This extra sum includes  for sal  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

aries In the newly organized School Hygiene department,.
$  for automatic increases in salary granted by rule,
$  for special mereases,  for salary of the Librarian
at the High School,  for commercial teacher engaged last
vear,  for extra teaching in the High School next September,  for salary of swimming instructor,  for
salary of special teacher for atypical children, 
for salaries of matron at the swimming pool and cxtra janitor service at the gymnasium and in the evening schools,
$  for an extra payroll for janitors,  for teachers
in the grades last September and for next September, 
for new furniture and furnishings,  for books at the
High School Library,  for supplies at the swimming
pool,  for new time system at the Morgan School,
*  for additional educational supplies, and  for
new textbooks.

The appropriation requested from the city government
is This does not include probable receipts of 
from tuition, dog taxes and other sources. In Part V. of

this volume are various financial tables showing receipts, expenditures and estimates for the past fiscal vear of the city.
Facing page is special sheet detailing the cost of running schools for the school fiscal year, ending June ,
as prescribed by the State Board of Education.
Ill. ACCOMMODATIONS.

The public school buildings of Holvoke are pictured im
Part IV. of this volume. The property is in excellent condition. The furnishings and equipment are very satisfactory.
A two-room addition has been completed at the Elm Street
school. Various improvements have been made by the Board
of Publie Works. new building has been recommended
for West Holyoke. second draft of plans for the new
Lawrence school has been received by the School Board.
These plans eall for modern educational plant of thirtysix rooms, With assembly hall, gymnasium with lockers and

REPORT OP THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
showers, rooms for special departments, administration offices of the Board, central supply room, space for social center, recreational and playground work, and general arrangement of the building for possible oecupaney by junior
high school. |

The public school population shows slow but rather
steady growth. Congestion may therefore be expected in.
the fall in several of the districts. Plans made in advap-e
will minimize the danger of serious overcrowding, except at. -.+*
the High School and in the central districts. It will be hard
to give relief at the High School, where every room is now
taken, until the Vocational School has its own special building. In the central district, the best must be made of the
situation until the new Lawrence school is ready for use.
On the whole, school accommodations here are just as good
as those in any city with which Holyoke may reasonably be
compared.

IV. ATTENDANCE.

The enrolment, membership and attendanee of the various
schools is tabulated in Part V. of this volume. On December
  the public school enrolment was  with mem- .
bership of  and an average attendance of  .
These figures were practically the same on December  ,
 The increase in membership in over was
four per cent; in over was two and one-fifth per
cet; in over was one and two-fifths per cent.
Many cities and towns of New England have reported that
  was an ‘‘off vear’’ in matter of pubhe school membership.

V. KINDERGARTENS.

(Certain principles and aims are the foundation stones
of all kindergarten activities in Holvoke or elsewhere. In
the Report of  these were stated as follows:

“The kindergarten is social and educational link joining the home
and the school. Its fundamental principles are the cultivation of
proper relationships among family, community and school, the devel  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

opment of sense of interdependence, and the cultivation of spirit
of kindness and co-operation. The kindergarten aims to develop each
child physically, through play, games and work; mentally, through cultivation of attention and concentration by exercise of the senses; morally, through training in habits of obedience, promptness, industry, order, self-control, respect, reverence. It further aims to furnish the
chiidren with mental background for the regular studies of the
grades, by presenting to them in simple way knowledge of form,
color, size, number. and by teaching them to tell clearly their little

; stories of childlike observations and experiences.”

In every kindergarten of our city, these principles and
ains, through the training, ability, energy and enthusiasm
of the kindergartens are finding true expression and complete realization.

VI. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

The grades or elementary schools, once happily termed
the common schools, are the ‘‘heart and body’ of school 
system. This branch of the department requires constant

 attention, observation and strengthening. The elementary
schools are bound to be reasonably suecessful if four essential requirements are met, namely, good teaching, close and

- intelligent. supervision, good housing and strong courses of
study. After three and one-half years of experience with
the teachers and principals of the city, your Superintendent
is glad to report that their work is distinguished more than
: ever by the marks of consistent effort, ability and enthusiasm: that the school accommodations, save in cases like
the West Holyoke school and possibly the Ewingvyille school,
are very satisfactory; and that the various courses of study
have been revised, simplified and modernized, put on definite, uniform basis as to subjects and time allotment, and
made working part of the school system. Additionally,
new books have been furnished to the schools in most of the
fundamental studies. It is pleasure to report real progress
in this most important branch of the department, because a
school svstem is just about what its elementary schools make
it.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Vit. HIGH SCHOOL.

The work of the vear at the High School was generally

satisfactory. The people of Holvoke expect their High

. School to advance steadily toward position of reeognized
leadership. To this end various improvements were made
during the vear, and new plans are now being put into effect.
These efforts promise to result in the inereased efficiency of
the school and the better training of the students.

With well organized departments and specially trained
department heads; with new courses of study, longer school
day, better text books and improved equipment; with classroom instruction increased both in quality and quantity,
the ‘‘passing mark’’ raised, and requirements for diploma
augmented; with splendidly appointed library, and well
equipped model office for the Commercial department; with
new Domestic Science rooms and improved lunch service;
with the exceptional opportunities for physical well-being
and social activities offered in the new gymnasium; with the
uniformity, regularity and definiteness now applied to
studies and periods; with the policy of stern discipline, determined by the School Board, rigidly enforeed—with all
these improvements and advantages, if the school year of
  does not prove to be the best in the history of the Holyoke High School to date, then it will be difficult to explain
why it was not. The following excerpts from report of
Principal Conant deserve careful attention:

“The changes made, are, believe, all of progressive growin.
They are in line with many of the best tendencies in modern education. In high school like ours, where we have students of variety
of talents, tastes and ambitions, our courses must be varied enough to
meet many conditions. They must lead the student to desire to complete regular course. and must prepare him for something definite
when he receives his diploma.

“The colleges and schools of higher education where we have sent
our graduates have again shown approval of our work. Both Dartmouth College and Worcester Polytechnic Institute have renewed our
certificate rights. The privilege of certifying students to colleges under
the New England College Board expires December  st,  From

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

the report of the secretary of last year, it is evident that we are satisfying the exacting conditions of this board, and will have our certificate privileges renewed for another three-vear term.

“Our class of graduated pupils. Over of these are
continuing their education in the leading colleges, technical institutes,
special schools, normal schools and professional schools of the country.

“The honor pupils, the first nine in order of scholarship, were
Oliver Wesley Hutchinson, Frances Worthington Steele, Lucy Erskine
Sawyer, Edith Dorothea Conway,’ Maurice Mason, Frances Lillian
Maher, Helen Mary Dwight, Eliza Gaylord, Doris Snell Patee. Two
other pupils obtained marks higher than the lowest honor pupils ot
the Class of  Christine Adams, Olive Horrigan. Oliver W.
Hutchinson was awarded an annual  scholarship by Hamilton Co:lege, and his college record already shows that he is deserving of this
unusual honor. The annual alumni prizes for scholarship were awarded
as follows: Modern Languages, Edith D. Conway; Art, Mary G.
Wreseley. Two pupils did work in mathematics in advance of the requirements for college entrance and received credit for some of their
freshman year.

“For the first time. on April  there was held ‘High Schoo.
Day’ for the ninth grade pupils. All of the pupils in this grade, together with the teachers and principals of the grammar schools, were
invited to spend the morning at the High School. They were received
by committee of High School students, and, after gathering in the
auditorium, where they were made acquainted with some of the work
and aims of the High School, they were shown about both buildings
by their guides. It was quite evident at the opening of school in the
fall that this event resulted in some pupils entering the High School
who otherwise might have given up their schooling entirely. .

“A systematic effort is being made this year to get in daily touch
with all pupils who are absent from school. This work is divided
among five teachers, and by the use of card systems they are able to
find out how the home may be reached directly or indirectly during
the school day. It seldom happens that absent students are not definitely accounted for some time during the day of the absence. This
method has resu!ted in many parents promptly notifying the school of
the cause of the student’s absence. Formerly the parents waited until
the pupil had returned to school, when written excuse was sent. The
parents seem to appreciate the interest of the school authorities in this
matter. These cards will be kept on file at the school and will be of
much value as the pupil advances from vear to vear.

“In  material change was made in the hours of the High
School session. The number of periods was changed from six to five,
and the periods lengthened to one hour. spoke in my last report

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
-decidedly in favor of the arrangement, and now that the plan has been
in operation nearly year and half, my opinions have undergone
little change. believe in the lengthened hours for the high school
day, but with many of the advantages, think our present arrangement needs some change to give better results to the teaching and
allow the students little more latitude in the choice of subjects. Students taking regular course of four prepared subjects and physical
training are practically barred from electing any of the unprepared
work in the High School. This has resulted in smaller classes in our
Art Department, Domestic Science, Mechanical Drawing, and Shop
Work. also believe that more efficient work would be accomplished
in the class room in the latter part of the day if the teachers, particularly those who have the additional charge of sections, could have one
period free from regular class work. Where most teachers are obliged
to teach five hours continuously with brief intermission of twenty
minutes, there is little time or inclination to see pupils about other
matters often as important as conducting recitation. The question ot
fatigue, where the teacher has large class of pupils during the last
period of the dav. after having met four good-sized classes previously,
is also an element to be considered. To bring about ditferent condition so as to allow students to elect the unprepared subjects, would
suggest that two-session plan or an extended single session with sufficient intermission for teachers and pupils engaged in the technical
work. Periods could be arranged from to  and from to
 giving three one-hour periods in the forenoon and two seventy-fiveminute periods in the afternoon. Pupils taking courses in the afternoon in these subjects could have their programs so arranged as to be
excused during one or two of the regular high school morning periods
most convenient to them and to their homes.

‘ “The most important change in the faculty was the appointment of
Miss Lilhan W. Fay. who had been so long the head of the English
department. to the position of Dean and Librarian. Miss Fay, as Dean,
has been given large amount of the responsibilities connected with
the affairs of the girls of the school. Her long experience in the English department and her work in charge of the juntor and senior clubs
for girls, qualify her most admirably for the position she now occupies. Mr. Wilfred H. Ringer, head of the English department ai
Auburn, N. Y., High School. was appointed as Miss Fay’s successor.
He is graduate of Tufts College, and has had special work in English at Harvard. Mr. John C. Carr was chosen to sucd Mr. Harold
Gammans, who resigned to accept position in New Haven. Miss
Hazel Buckey resigned to accept position in Worcester, and her place
was filled by Mr. Rema J. Henderson. Miss Jeanette Baldwin, graduate of Brown University. was appointed as an additional teacher in
the Commercial denartment.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

“Changes in the arrangement of rooms were necessitated by the
large increase in the school. Room  the lecture room with elevated
seats, was changed to level floor and divided into two rooms. The
kitchen was moved from the third floor to basement room, and the
rooms used as pantrv and dining room were made into an additional
recitation room. Thus were created four new rooms, which are all
now in use. The present basement corner room for Domestic Science
room is well adapted to this purpose, but another room should be provided adjacent to it for use as dining room. The question of more
room for the High School is very serious one, and hope that the
School Board will take some action soon looking towards accommodating the increased numbers that are bound to come to us in the fall |
of  .

“In September,  changes were made in the courses of study
as follows: First, raising the passing mark from per cent to per
cent; secondly, increasing the number of hours of required work from
  to periods per week, and arranging the credits to contorm tc
present usages of most colleges and secondary schools; thirdly, rearranging courses in college preparatory subjects so as to distribute the
work more equally throughout the four years; fourthly, classifying the
pupils in groups according to courses pursued; fifthly, establishing a
course in Household Arts; sixthly, greater correlation between departments. In the College Preparatory Course (Classical) Ancient History
was made five-period subject, coming only in the first year. modification of this will he necessary for pupils preparing for Mount Holyoke College, when it is required that Ancient History be taken within eighteen months of entrance. In the second year Plane Geometry
was dropped and science or history substituted. Plane Geometry  s
now given in the third year and is followed by Review Algebra and.

| Solid in the fourth year. This is providing some of the college mathematics in the fourth year. The course aims to prevent confining the
pupils to an almost exclusive study of subjects from the Language
group. In the College Preparatory Course (Technical), the subject of
Chemistry may now be elected in the second year; Physical Geography
has been dropped as required subject; Physics is required in the:
fourth year. Otherwise the course remains about the same. More
shop work will be introduced as soon as space and other, conditions.
permit. The General Course is modified to suit changing conditions.
Many electives are offered in such way that pupils may specialize in
certain departments where they show any decided ability. Community:
Civics or Social Science is made required subject of the second year.
Work in Design, Domestic Science, Mechanical Drawing, Shop Work
is offered in elementary or advanced form throughout the course. The- Commercial Course has been carefully revised. The changes made..

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
while not radical, tend to make the graduate better and broade:
worker in the business world. Design is offered throughout the course
and is required in the fourth year. This is taught in the Freehand
and Mechanical Drawing rooms. It takes up the different parts, show
cards, and decoration. There is an attempt to correlate the work of
the teacher of Oral Expression with the Commercial department. The
seniors in the Commercial department are required to report one hour
each week for work in Personal Efficiency. The instruction given  s
intended to cause the pupils to realize that awkward conversation,
slovenly utterance, incorrect pronunciation and unpleasant voice all
count against them. Talks on uses of the telephone; instruction and
practice in proper ways of receiving and sending telephone and other
oral messages; manner of receiving visitors; methods of approaching
prospective employers, and general deportment and courtesy in business
association are some of the subjects dealt with. The subject of Spanish should be more generally elected by pupils in the department and
then more advanced work could be developed in course of commercial Spanish. believe that Music should receive much more impcrtant place in our schedule than is now given to it. The arrangement
now provides for two choruses, each meeting weekly for one period uf
forty minutes. There are many pupils in our school that would receive
great benefit by being able to take more extended work in Music. The
girls entering normal schools are at disadvantage where they have
had little or no study during their high school course to prepare them
for the work in Music required at the normal schools. would suggest, in addition to the chorus work, that similar room be fitted out
in the building, with piano and suitable charts, and that the study of
Music take more of the class-room form. This would include the
study of harmony, sight reading, and some of the important musical
compositions of ancient and modern composers.

“I would suggest that an cntrance to the High School building be
made on Bh street, opening on the first floor. This would assist in
assembling and dismissing school and be an additional precaution in
case of fire. In the gymnasium building would suggest that the
basement floor level, either on the south or west side of girls’ locker
room be extended so as to make room more suitable for giris’
gymnasium than the one now so used. This could be done without a
very large cost and would increase the efficiency of the work of the
girls’ classes. Outside of the building there should be made an enclosed
yard for use of girls during early fall and late spring months, accessible directly from girls’ gymnasium.

“To make report proper in length, suitable in material, and irteresting in style is difhcult. My endeavor has been to touch on some

é

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
of the most important changes in the school’s development and to show
how the Holyoke High School is trying to work for the present and
future best interest of the boys and girls of Holyoke.”

VITL. WIGW SCHOOL LIBRARY.

An outstanding feature of school work in was the
opening of the High School Library. It was organized on
the threefold principle that the various departments should
have an educational clearing house; that the most important
of laboratories and shops is that in which are kept the best
educational tools—books; and that no real teacher can

: properly instruct his pupils in any subject withoyt interesting them in the resources of the library.

At the outset the advice of the best authorities on the
subject was sought. Miss Mary E. Hall, Librarian of the
Girls’ High School in Brooklyn, recognized as the leader
in this work, came to Holvoke, addressed an interested audience, explamed modern library ideals and methods, and
helped make the plans for the local High School Library.
It was decided to have an mdependent department, rather
than branch of the Public Library at the school. The
choice of librarian was happily made. The strength of
the recommendation that the librarian be college graduate
and graduate of an approved library school, was fully
realized. The fact that the librarian should be conversant
with the city and its various educational activities, with the
work and needs of the schools, with all the departments,
teachers and pupils of the High School, with the Public Library and with books and library methods was given due
consideration. Miss Lillian W. Fay, graduate of Smith
College, head of the English department at the High School
for many Vears, woman of rare culture and broad knowledge, possessing every qualification for the position save
that of experience in the mechanical-clerical side of library
methods (which she has sinee easily mastered), was considered the best choice and was unanimously elected Librarian
and Dean of the High School. The Library has been sueREPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
cess from the first dav. Friends of the school have taken a
deep interest in it. The officials at the Publie Library have
been especially helpful. The excerpts below are taken from
a report made by Prineipal Conant and Miss Fav:

“The library opened in September in room newly decorated in '
warm shades of brown and furnished with low ash shelving to hold
about twelve hundred books, high double stacks to hold about three
thousand books, catalogue case for forty-five hundred cards, magazine case with drawers for magazines and pamphlets, filing cabinet
for postcards, etc. filing cahinet for photographs, special dictionary
and atlas case, librarian’s desk, bulletin boards, forty chairs, and tables
to seat forty pupils. The stacks were placed in the alcove at the south
end of the main room, while the room at the north was furnished as
an othce and work room for the librarian. At the beginning of the
year there were eighteen hundred volumes in the hbrary. About three
hundred new books have been added since September. These. with the
books borrowed from the public library, have served our purpose well
for the past six months.

“The library is open every day from o'clock in the morning to
  o'clock in the afternoon, and on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons
from to  On Monday and Thursday afternoons the librarian is
in her office only by special appointment. In December the average was
twenty-four pupils for each period, or one hundred and twenty for
each day. The afternoon attendance is still small.

“Early in the year half-hour lesson in the library was given by
the librarian to each of the divisions of the first-year English classes.
The instruction was simple, but covered the needs of pupils using the
library for the first time. It included the locating in the library of the
general books of reference; the use of encyclopedias, dictionaries, and
atlases; the use of an index in book; and the study of tables of
contents. For the third and fourth-year pupils more talks by the hibrarian will be iven once or twice month. The first was on Mary
Antin and “The Promised Land,” given Wednesday, January  th,
at  .

“In supplying new books and in all the work in the library, the
one aim of the librarian has been to serve as an aid to the regular
work of the school. Books have been generously furnished by the
School Board and Superintendent, as the need for them has been discovered. These hooks are provided for reference and supplementary
reading in each department. This means that the librarian has tried
to keep in touch with the work of every department in order to direct
pupils to the best source of information, and to make use of the new
material in the library. The heads of departments, with the hearty

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

co-operation of all the teachers, have greatly helped the librarian in
preparing lists of books to be added to the library, and in making use
of the new books. beginning has been made in forming small but
valuable professional library for the use of the teachers in their department work. The following magazines may be found in the library
and are proving useful to both teachers and pupils: Bookman, Educational Journal, Independent, National Geographic Magazine, Outlook, Popular Mechanics, Stenographic and Phonographic World,
World’s Work, Field and Stream, Leslie’s, Aus Nach und Fern,
L’Tlustration.

“During the recess of twenty minutes, many pupils come into the
library for glance at the bulletin board or to look at new magazine. They are forming habits which will be of value to them always.
Few things that pupil gains from school are of more value than a
taste for good reading. It strengthens the character, and deepens and
develops new interests and leads to mental and spiritual growth after
the pupil leaves school.”

IX. VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.

This school has continued on its path of service and success. It has three divisions:

 Day School for Boys.

 Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men.

 Evening Practical Arts Classes for Women.

Each division has several departments related to the
trades, occupations and home-making activities of the city.
The quality of instruction is superior. The equipment is as
good as can be found in any similar school in the state. The
second annual report, soon to be published by the Board of
Trustees for Vocational Education, will carefully detail the
work, character, progress and needs of this school, and prove
it-to be Holyoke’s best investment.

X. EVENING SCHOOLS.

 In the elementary schools the year has been very satisfactory, except in the matter of number of students attending.
The four schools were supervised by the same experienced
principals who had charge last year; the teaching force was
very competent; new books published especially for evening



REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
schools were supplied; and special instructions were given
to principals regarding outlines of work and grading of
students. It is unfortunate that only nine hundred and
sixty-five pupils, instead of the usual twelve hundred, enrolled to claim the advantages and opportunities here offered. But there are two very good reasons for the small
attendance. Since the beginning of the Great War, few immigrants have come to our shores from European countries :
and in days of industrial depression, when illiterate minors
are not at work, it is difficult to foree them into evening
school.

The Evening High School has added another year to its
record of successful progress. It is operated like the day
High School except that its work is done during two periods
a night, four nights week for six months of the year. There
was increased demand for Civil Service and Freehand Drawing. Additional classes were organized. In December,  ,
classes were begun in Citizenship, for those seeking naturalization papers. The following are excerpts from Principal
Garyey’s report: |

' “The work of the Evening High School has been conducted in ,
general along the lines of the past few years, the two-period session !
being held in all but few of the classes. This year there was fairly
good demand for instruction in the Spanish language, and class was
opened and has done very good work. Pronunciation and the most essential principles of grammar have been studied. Since most of the
class want Spanish for commercial purposes, business letters actually
received have been dictated at each lesson after the first week. Translation and comnosition have been based upon such letters and advertisements.

“The class in Physics, like the classes in French, German and
mathematics, is small but excellent. The course consists of lecture,
recitation, demonstration of nhysical laws and appliances, with mathematical exercises in accordance with the individual needs and capacities
of each student. This course seems to fill real need for students who
have not had opportunity for science study, as well as for those who
have partly or completely finished high school course. The class includes two graduates of the High School, one of whom intends to go
to college next year, and is taking this course along with chemistry as
a means of preparation for his college work. Another young man

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

seeks here assistance towards his state examinations for obtaining his
license as optometrist. This would indicate that physics is meeting a
real demand for scientific work for definite advancement, and the
fact that the class is small only makes all the more possible the giving
of special attention to individual needs.

“Chemistry even more than physics is giving tangible results. Already three young men are employed in local chemical establishments,
who have received their first instruction in chemistry in the evening
classes. One of the boys has just secured employment as an assistant
in the chemical department of the American Writing Paper Company. One of last year’s boys secured employment early this fall,
and another boy in previous class is also working in paper mill
laboratory. The course follows that of the day High School as closely
as the exigencies of evening school work will nermit. believe that
every assistance and encouragement in the way of advanced courses,
text books, supplies and apparatus should be furnished the evening
classes in science.

“New and revised copies of Williams’ and Rogers’ Modern Illustrative Bookkeeping have heen provided for the classes in the bookkeeping department. One class was supplied with and instructed in
the Rowe system of bookkeeping. In this way we have had an opportunity to compare the results obtained by evening classes in both systems. It is perhaps too early yet to form definite opinion as to which
svstem is better adapted for our work, for certain facts, and circumstances must be considered. But one feature is apparent, namely that
the per cent of attendance in the classes under the Williams’ and
Rogers’ system is materially higher than in the class where the Rowe
system is taught.

“The work in the Commercial department has been up to the stancard set in previous years. We have endeavored to cover all phases
of strictly commercial course, giving particular emphasis to business
English. We aim to give facility in the use of English as “tool.”
The practical aspects of English are emphasized. To be able to write
 good business letter requires some knowledge of technical English,
the rules of capitalization and punctuation, and practice in writing on
business subjects in an orderly, direct and clear manner. With this
object in view, the course in business English has been shaped to perfect the pupils in the technique and the composition of business letter; with drill in spelling, punctuation, capitalization, etc. Instruction
in letter-filing and card-indexing is given.

“During the past term all subjects related to Freehand Drawing
have been discussed in general way. Among these ‘color’ has proved
to be very interesting. This subject cannot be very broadly studied in
an evening class. Therefore, an experimental Saturday afternoon

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS Lol
sketching class was formed. This has given the pupils chance to
work under ideal conditions. The success of this class has been so
great that it would seem advisable in the next school year to provide
for such class as an extension to the Evening High School course.

“The class in Civil Service is composed of group of people who
have live interest in their work. As result ruch is accomplished
by them. Some students need only directed review with the aim of
qualifying for civil service examinations, while others require help
suited to varying needs and tending towards general advancement.
The success of pupils who have taken examinations and the fact that
some have received civil service employment is gratifying result of
the efforts of the class.

“The school, like most evening schools, suffers from irregularity
 attendance. Some means should be adopted to try to remedy or at
least improve this condition.

“My idea of the Holyoke Evening High School is an institutioa
which will not only nrovide courses of study in regular high school
subjects, but will also afford an opportunity for residents of the city,
young and old, to receive instruction in any subject meriting public
approval or for the public good. believe this school has mission to
perform, and its doors should be open at all times for the instruction
of our citizens in any matter making for better living conditions, better morals, and better men. think we have made good start thts
year, by offering instruction to men of foreign birth who have applied
for naturalization papers.

“Much has been done in day schools in the matter of school hygiene. It might be well to extend this branch of instruction to the
evening school. With the opening of the swimming pool] in the gymnasium the girls of the Evening High School should be given instruction in swimming. Evening High School pupils should be accorded
the same consideration of their more favored friends of the dav
school.

“It would help us materially and promote the safety of the students if at least one janitor would be provided who is famihiar with
the lighting and heating svstem of the building and has knowledge
of the electric connections, switches and wiring.”

AI. SPECTAL DEPARTMENTS.

The work of the six special departments embraces manual training, household arts, drawing, writing, music and
school hygiene. During the past two years special efforts
have been made to increase the efficiency of these departments. Definite results have been obtained, exeept in the Mue

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
sic department, which is soon to be reorganized. The courses
in manual training and drawing have been recast, extended
and correlated through all the grades and in the first and
second vears of the High School. four-year course in

| manual training for the High School has been prepared and
is ready for introduction.

The sewing classes have proded on clear, uniform
plan and have given most satisfaetory results. In writing.
the ‘‘Palmer Method,’’ whieh is system of writing as well
as method of teaching it, has improved to marked degree
the penmanship of both pupils and teachers.

The Special Departments Committee and the Superintendent observed work in musie in the Boston schools with a
view to bettering the Music department here. Pressure of
work in other special departments, particularly that of
School Hygiene, postponed the making of new outline and
course in music.
 All matters relating to health and physical education in
the schools are now controlled by the newly organized department of School Hygiene. In originality, scope, promise
of efficiency, real worth and ideal organization the ‘‘Holyoke
Plan of School Ifygiene,’’ explained in Part VI of this volume, has no peer in the country. Splendid results are sure
to come.

These general statements regarding the special departments are supplemented by the following excerpts from reports of the supervisors :

“Manual Training occupies field of its own, quite distinct from
the more highly specialized vocational education. This field must be
conserved for its own value, and for the contribution which it makes
to the general education of pupils, irrespective of the particular vocations which they later expect to enter. In this work we no longer
limit our activities to single material, but have introduced new materials and new experiences, and have to the same extent introduced
new life into the classes. The Manual Training department seems to
divide naturally into three somewhat distinct fields; elementary hand
work in grades one to six inclusive; shopwork in grades seven, eight
and nine; and technical shop practice, perhaps better called the theory
of shop practice. in the High School.

a
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

“The elementary hand work is taught by special teachers who
visit each room once in two weeks. From one visit to the next the
work is carried on by the room teacher. The time allowed varies from
twenty-five minutes week in grade one to fifty minutes week in
grade six. The introduction of this work, about two years ago, seemed
tc satisfy immediately an educational want long felt. An opportunity .
was afforded through uniform method of instruction to make such
practical school necessities as portfolios, boxes for busy work in prtmary grades, folders for spelling blanks, and handy little notebooks
for recording home work. The materials used are raftia, reed, jute,
twine, plasticine and cardboard. The aim has been to develop the
muscular senses through the creative instinct, and to make our pupils
ingenious, inventive and successful in those little activities of life
which are of all absorbing interest to them.

“The shop work in grades seven, eight and nine has received most
careful attention. The time allowed varies from an hour to an hour
and half. The most important present consideration is the proper
equipment of the woodworking centers. Work is being done daily
with this in view, and rapid progress is being made to bring our man| ual training shops up to high standard. The boys have given much
help in completing the new center at Lawrence School. The introductory course in wood work in grade seven includes the making of
‘simple one-piece models, gradually working into more advanced modeis
which require constructive knowledge, longer period of time, and a
higher degree of skill. It is proposed to introduce, toward the end of
the year, several projects in wood which require some work in sheet
metal to complete them. principally to eradicate the somewhat prevaJent idea that the pupils’ efforts in school and at home must be confined to wood work alone. The work in grade eight is divided into
wood work and cement work. Although the introduction of cement
work was somewhat in the nature of an experiment, it has proved its
worth as material which has decided educational possibilities. Projects which lend themselves readily to the possibilities of shop room
‘work include tiles for table mats, blocks for doorsteps, bulb dishes,
jardinieres, matchholders, etc. In grade nine printing has been intro-duced in one of the centers—the Morgan School. The remaining
‘rinth grades are working upon more pretentious woodworking projects than those attempted in grade eight. The marked success which
‘Printing in the ninth grade has achieved in its first half-year proves
that it is an ideal manual training activity. The expense of installing
the first equipment was so small, the running expenses so low, and the
‘results obtained so satisfactory, that we look forward to printing shops
in all of our centers. Following the theory that the place in which a
pupil works or studies makes lasting impression on the character of

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
the pupil and his work, we are making definite attempt to have our
manual training centers attractive school shops.

“Provision has been made for the correlation of this department
with the work in drawing through applied design. In each of the
three grammar grades one problem year is designed within stipulated
Iimits by the classes in drawing and worked through to completion in
the manual training shops.

“The manual training work in the High School at present includes
two years of technical shop practice. The extension of this work
through the third and fourth years, with the necessary equipment, has
for some time been under advisement, and plans are ready. The
course of study is designed to fulfill the requirements of two groups
of pupils,—those electing the technical preparatory course and those
electing the general course.

“The course of four years is planned thus:

First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Joinery Wood-turning Toundry Work Machine Shop
Cabinet-making Pattern-making Forging Practice

Foundry Work

“Some radical changes have been made in our shops and new machinery has been added, so that for the scope of our work we are satisfactorily equipped. This has been deemed advisable in contrast to
cther methods which might have been followed. Due consideration is
made for the difference between high school shop practice course and
a vocational trade training course. It is not our aim to train the pupils
to be future cabinet-makers, pattern-makers or foundry men. Instead,
we aim to afford an opportunity for pupils to become acquainted with
the possibilities and the limitations offered by each of the trades with
which they come in contact.” (From Report of Supervisor of Manual Training, R. E. Hamill.) .

“The course in drawing was modified, near the close of the last
school year, for two reasons. One was the desire to correlate as
closely as possible with the Manual Training and Household Arts departments in the grammar grades; the other was the need of planning
for manual training in the first six grades. The Drawing department
has long felt that the primary children should have an opportunity to
do some of the work that is usually termed manual training. The
two subjects are now very closely correlated in the first five grades. ,
Miss Lynn teaches both subjects in grades one to five inclusive in half
the schools of the city. while Miss McHugh does likewise in the other
half. Holyoke is probably the only city where such an arrangement
has been made. The plan works well, largely owing to the fact that
the supervisors are well qualified to teach both drawing and manual

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
training. The general opinion seems to be that this close correlation
cf the two subjects has proved decided success, and that it simplifies
matters for the grade teachers. Many interesting problems have been ,
worked out, in which the designs were planned in the Drawing department and applied to models constructed in the Manual Training depar:ment. Fifth grade pupils constructed pasteboard boxes that were presented to pupils in grades one and two to hold their materials for
busy work, etc., thus supplying an actual need of the schools. Many
attractive bags, booklets, baskets. etc., have been made.

“The introduction of manual training into the first six grades
creates some new needs. One of the supervisors writes that the lack
of care of the manual training supplies has proved to be source ot
annoyance in some of the school buildings. Considerable storage
space is required, and there should be some place in each building set
side for this purpose. At the beginning of the fall term the super- :
visor in charge should check up her supplies and be held responsible
for them through the year. By the present method articles are lost
because of the many places of storage. -A special room has been fitted
up in the Joseph Metcalf School for the manual training supplies.
Similar places should be provided in other school buildings in the city
as measure of economy.

“A large variety of work is offered in the Art department of the
Holyoke High School. The work is largely individual in character,
each pupil progressing as rapidly as his ability permits. The course is
planned to take advantage of opportunities available at different seascns of the year. Flower and fruit sprays are represented in pencil
and water colors, in the fall when such material is abundant. Good
spacing and composition are taught by planning appropriate enclosing
forms for these studies. Color study is also taken up at this time,
emphasizing the different harmonies of color that will be applied later
to the work in design. In the winter, charcoal drawing from cast and
still life, and pen and ink work for illustration, are taken up. More
attention has been paid to design work, during the past year, than
ever before.

“There is strong tendency among the leading directors of art
cducation to consider design work, and its application to the various
torms of craft work, as being of great practical value. It is true,
however, that good work in design cannot be secured unless the pupit
is able to draw and has some knowledge of color harmony. Work
aiong these lines is. therefore, very necessary to prepare him to do
successful work in design.

“During the past year considerable interest has been aroused and
much work has been done in costume and millinery design. It is procrosed to take up the subject of house furnishing this year, particularly
in regard to the selection of harmonious color schemes.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

“The pupils’ original designs have been carried out successfully in
tooled leather and stencil work. Designs for metal work were made
iin the Drawing department and carried out in the Manual Training
cepartment. Designs for Christmas cards were also made, correlatin;z
with the printing department of the Vocational School. Considerable
work has also been done in preparing illustrations for ‘The Herald’
and ‘The Purple and White.’ An effort is being made to have the
Drawing department correlate with the Commercial department by
having the pupils in the latter receive instruction concerning various
niatters connected with advertising. Good lettering, good spacing, balance of the different parts, and, in some cases, decoration are taught,
and knowledge along these lines should prove of value in many posttions. Pupils are encouraged to make designs for any line of work in
which they may he interested. They have been particularly successful

) in designing cards and posters to advertise club meetings, entertainments and other activities of the school. The degree of ability to
meet definite needs as they arise, in the school, in the home, and in
the community, is measure of the success of art instruction in the
public schools.” (From Report of Supervisor of Drawing, Mrs. Isabelle H. Ferry.)

“The classes in sewing at the High School have shown marked imfrovement since the period was extended from forty-five minutes ts
an hour. The work is more advanced, because practically all the gir's
now entering, have had one sewing lesson week for three years in
the grades. So many girls leave school when they reach the age of
‘ourteen that would again urge that needle work be started in the
sixth grade. The earlier children are taught to use their hands in this
most important work, the better fitted they are to reduce to the minimum the necessary expenditure for clothing.

“Some of the girls who elect sewing in the High School make
practically all of their school clothes. Each girl makes at least an
entire set of underwear, one-piece dress, separate skirt, and two
waists of popular style.

“As the five-period day makes it impossible for many pupils to
arrange their schedules for any unprepared work, it has been necessary to form class for afternoon work. This is large class of
tupils who are willing to work from two o'clock to three-thirty in der to obtain instruction. If we could equip one of the basement
rooms with set of laundry tubs and wringer, we would be able to
give short course in laundry work which would make each girl
capable of caring for the clothing she had made. Also, we should add
a short course in simple millinery, thus making quite an advance in the
extension of our Household Arts department.

“In the matter of correlation between related departments, we stiil

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

 have no better problem than the small apartment, or suite of rooms,

where the Art, Manual Training, Household Science, Household Arts,

end School Hygiene departments would each have wide scope for

splendid related work. This, we hope, will be arranged in the proposed new Lawrence School.” (From Report of Supervisor of Houscehold Arts, Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins.)

“During the past year the principles of muscular movement in
writing have been applied in general written work. spelling paper

 not considered perfect, even if all words are spelled correctly unless
the writing is based on the ‘Palmer Method.’ In composition work,
pupils have learned that the thought of the mind should be made
beautiful and clear to the eye, by the pen. Last year about one
thousand children received Palmer buttons and progress pins, and
very many received improvement certificates and diplomas. These
diplomas and certificates are considered assets in the business world.
I look forward to the time when every teacher shall have her certificate, when every pupil shall hold Palmer diploma of merit.” (From
Keport of Supervisor of Writing, Esther A. MacDonnell.)

“In the Music department the past year we have followed the
Same course used in previous years. The annual Christmas concert
was given by the combined ninth grades, assisted by picked chorus
trom the fifth grades—nearly six hundred voices. The ninth grades
rendered ‘Christmas Eve,’ by Gade. The younger children, under Miss
McCarthy, sang Christmas carols. This concert was given on Friday,
December  th, and by request of the School Board was repeated for
the public on the following Sunday.

' “Tn several grammar schools orchestras have been organized under
a competent leader. This early training will give great pleasure and
profit now, and splendid aid to the High School orchestra later.

“Part of my work consisted in preparing the ninth grades for their
exercises of graduation, which were held in the various school halls,
thus making it necessary to prepare five musical programs.

“At the High School this year about five hundred and fifty students have taken music. ‘Hiawatha’s Wedding’ was rendered to the
rest of the school as an audience. The orchestra is most successful
organization.

- “Tet me thank the teachers and principals for the manner in which
they carried the work through the year.” (From Report of Supervisor of Music, Hugh Craig.)
XII. HOME AND SCHOOL GARDENS.
This work was begun in the spring of  It was
planned to extend to the pupils in general the excellent lessons and advantages in gardening which Principals Callahan

  REPORT OF TIE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
and Herbert have been giving to their pupils for some years.
Mr. George D. Hearn, teacher at the High School, who has

specialized in this work at Amherst for several summers,
was the organizer. He visited all but two of the schools,
explained the value of home gardens, enrolled nine hundred
pupils, and had six hundred satisfactory home gardens under his supervision. Four school gardens were started, two
of which were discontinued on aceount of adverse conditions.
The school garden in Elmwood was splendid success.

) great deal of local interest was aroused, aud many
publie-spirited citizens gave invaluable aid. Grateful appreciation is expressed to Mr. Frank O’Connell for help in preparing the soil; to Mr. Wallace Sawin and Mr. August
Baush for use of land; to Mr. R. P. Trask for services; to
Dr. John  S. Lyon for contributions of  in prize money
made by Messrs. Frank B. Towne, Edward N. White, Joseph A. Skinner and Joseph Metealf; to the Suffolk Theater
and the Majestic Theater for showing lantern slides of winners, and to many others for services as Judges, and for use
of automobiles. The following are excerpts from letter of
Mr. John A. Scheurle of the Hampden County Improvement
League:

“The garden work in Holyoke was most satistactory, indeed, for
its first year. You had an unusual number of boys and girls who enrolled for the club work and very high per cent who actually compieted some work under the direction of Mr. Hearn, which is splendid testimonial of his ability as club leader. The quality of the garcens was unusually good in view of the fact that the boys and girls ;
had no special instructions in the fundamental principles of gardening
until after the gardens were planted and well under way. The League
in co-operation with Mr. Hearn and your department can at the very
outset bring to the boys and girls the necessary knowledge in the
fundamental principles of gardening. This follow-up work by Mr.
Hearn during the summer is most essential, and upon it depends the
ultimate success of the club work.”

ATT. SPECIAL HELP CLASS.
The Committee on Special Departments has long considered the need of segregating serious cases needing special

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
help and placing them in charge of specialist. It was realized that such plan would help the subnormal children
as well as their classmates, and relieve the teachers of the
necessity of dealing with such cases in an inexpert manner.
Miss Alice Geran, who organized the work in Stamford, Ct.,
was chosen to head similar department here. At the end
of the fall term she had visited eight schools, consulted with
principals and teachers, and had examined many pupils by
the Binet Tests. When all schools have been visited and the
most serious cases determined upon, special help class of
fifteen or twenty will be opened in one of the centrally loeated buildings. The cost of this special work will be far
less than the amount expended in keeping certain pupils in
the same grades several vears, and to no purpose.

XIV. SCHOOL SAVINGS BANKS.

The school laws of the state require that ‘‘Thrift’’ be
taught in the publie schools. The Parent-Teacher Associations through the Central Council, and Mr. Harry A. Allen
of the Holyoke National Bank, interested the School Board
in the matter. This is the origin of the organization of school
savings binks locally. While Thrift suggests far more than
the saving of money, it was believed bv ths school authorities that thrifty habits might be formed by the pupils and a
branch o* Thrift taught in most practical way by eonducting small savings banks in the schools and connecting them
with local bank.

In December every elementary school, save that in West
Holyoke, had savings bank. The savings department of the
Holyoke National Bank is the depository. The plan is very
simple, yet it brings the pupils in direct connection with a
real bank as depositors. The suecess of the work may be
judged from the fact that in there were eighteen savings banks organized in the schools, nearly children depositors, regular savings bank accounts, the sum of
$  deposited, and the sum of  withdrawn.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
XV. SCIIOOLHOUSE AGENT.

In performing his duties, the Schoolhouse Agent must
inspect all school buildings and property, supervise the janitor service, instruct the janitors, eliminate waste in fuel,

light, power and water, and insist that the buildings are kept
clean, safe and in good repair. report from this agent
states that the janitor service during the year was excellent
and was economically obtained. This is source of great
satisfaction because campaign was waged for year against
waste and extravagance among the janitors.

The Schoolhouse Agent recently made special inspections of all school buildings relative to fire hazard and also
to necessary repairs—a detailed report of which was given to
the Superintendent. The report of inspections made in November by state authorities is most favorable to the janitor —
service and the general condition of the public school buildings.

XVI. REORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL SYSTEM.

The object of this brief discussion is not to advise the
immediate reorganization of the local public school system,
but rather to recommend and help to direct careful consideration of plans for reorganization formulated in other cities
like Holyoke.

Fifty years ago the elementary schools had six grades,
followed by four years of high school work. This elementary
course has gradually been increased by two years, and in
some places by three years, not including kindergartens.
The elementary course of eight grades has practically become standard in most city school systems, although minority of cities in Massachusetts still retain the nine grades.

There is not single good reason, either in pedagogy
or in physiology, why the work of pupils should be differentiated at the end of the eighth or ninth grades. There are
many good reasons why the transition from the elementary
school to junior secondary or intermediate school should

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
come when the pupil has completed the sixth: grade, has
reached the age of about twelve, and has entered upon the
period of transition from childhood to youth.

Many educational authorities hold that the present organization of public day school systems (omitting kindergartens and special schools) on the ‘‘eight-and-four-year
plan’’ or ‘‘nine-and-four-year plan’’ is artificial and accidental. There is strong support in the best places for the
‘‘six-three-three plan,’’ that is, elementary schools of six
years, junior high schools of three years and senior high
schools of three years. Dr. Leonard P. Ayres of New York
has made the following statement:

“The present administrative division of our schools into eight elementary and four high school grades is illogical and is based on the
accidents of educational history. We are the only modern nation that
has such division. England, Germany, France and Japan have developed systems better adapted to the psychological nature and needs
of the growing child. In our own country we are beginning to see
that great benefits are to be derived from more natural adjustment
of the types of school to the changing needs of the children, and many
of our cities are reorganizine their school systems according to the
plan recommended, the six-three-three plan.”

Assistant Superintendent J. E. Burke of the Boston

schools, who has made special study of this question, writes
as follows:

“Our present school divisions are artificial. In our accidental and
illogical plan we have two distinct systems of schools—one, elementary,
another high—differing in teachers, methods, subjects and ideals, and
having little or no points of articulation between them. Pupils leaving the elementary school and entering the high school arrive in what .
is almost new world. The transition is too sudden and abrupt. The
mortality among first-year high school pupils is appalling. The cause
for this wreckage largely is the failure of the pupils to adjust themselves to their new environment, or their inability to see wherein the
new studies are of practical benefit to them. It is imperative that we
bridge over the void between the elementary and the high school
grades. It is recommended that junior high school be established to
provide for pupils of the seventh, eichth and ninth grades, thus relieving the high school of its present first-year work. There are several
arguments in favor of segregating the pupils of these grades from

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

those that are younger and from those that are older, but the chief
advantage educationally would be the atmosphere created in such a
school. The intermediate or junior high school should be neither elementary nor high; rather it should be both. The teachers should be
neither elementary nor high, but both. Pupils would enter the school
as elementary, but they would emerge full-fledged high school pupils.
The chasm now existing between high and elementary schools would
be bridged, desideratum devoutly to be wished for.”

In order that the School Board and others may have a
basis for discussion of the possible reorganization of the local
school system, your Superintendent has arranged to have Mr.
Burke, and opponents of his plans, present their views in a
series of publie lectures in April and May,  .

XVII. THE COST OF EDUCATION.

In thousands of cities and towns the ery is heard: ‘‘The
schools are costing too much money!’’ But, education must
be bought and paid for. Is not the home, is not the community, is not the state, are not the colleges and the industries
constantly adding to the duties required of the public
schools? The citizens demand edueation, safety, health and
happiness for their children—the pupils. These things are
expensive, but they are worth while. And so the best eitizens do not grumble at school expenditures, when they know
that adequate returns are made.

How many parents, who give their children ten or
twenty cents every day for spending money, realize that in
Holvoke it costs less than twenty-five cents day to keep
each pupil in school and furnish him with books, supplies, instruction, janitor service, heat, light, water, health, protection, and so on? How many citizens realize how the annual expenditures for certain articles compare with the annual expenditures made for school purposes in this country ?
These statements may be of interest:

The expenditure for various liquors and tobacco manufactures is about four times the amount spent on public
school education. The expenditure for motion pieture shows
is far more than twice the eost of running the public schools.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
The expenditure for confectionery is thirteen times, for soda
waters is three times, and for ribbons is two and one-half
times the amount spent for school books. More money is
spent for cigar boxes, or for toys and games, than for school
apparatus, supplies and materials. More money is spent
for silk stockings than for gymnasium and health apparatus
in the schools.

Surely the ‘‘fads and frills’’ alleged to exist in the
schools cover wider areas than the educational field, so far
as spending money is concerned.

XVIII. MILITARY DRILL IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

The matter of military training in high schools was discussed in general way in the Report of  During the
past year the advisability of requiring military drill in public schools has become live question before the country.
In fact, it  now being considered as matter of national
policy. Some authorities are strongly in favor of it. Others
declare that military drill has no place, as such, in public
school system.

Dr. J. H. MeCurdy of the Springfield Y. M. C. A. College is quoted as saying that every boy, before receiving his
High School diploma, should be required to attend military
camp for month during his senior year, where he would get
in touch with all the things related to the life of good soldier and good man. Dr. Dudley A. Sargent of Harvard
University makes the following points in opposition:

“Military drill in public schools misses the point because it
cannot teach boys the real art of war:

“The countries whose armies in the present war were found
best prepared, Germany for example, have no military drill in their
schools—but rather abundant instruction in physical training:

“A rational system of physical training in schools and colleges
would be of the greatest value in preparing the youth of the country
for the struggles of war and peace:

“The schools should give to the masses the physical advantages
which are now being lavished on the favored few—and produce athletic students, not student athletes; likewise soldierly schoolboys, not
schoolboy soldiers.”

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
The discussion has not yet reached point which calls

for action by the local School Board. Meanwhile it may be

noted how strikingly in accord with Dr. Sargent’s views
are the policies of the new department of School Hygiene.
XIX. PROFESSIONAL IMPROVEMENT.

The School Board should recognize, in tangible way,
the contributions which teachers make to the cause of education through their efforts to improve themselves. Such selfimprovement work, beyond any other school activity, makes
for more efficient and progressive schools. It would seem
advisable to organize courses for self-improvement of teachers in connection with colleges nearby, or with the State
Department of University Extension.

XX. NOTES OF INTEREST.

The following brief statements will receive more complete consideration from time to time during the present year,
and in the next report:

 The community continues to benefit from the use of

} school halls and buildings for lectures, concerts, political
| rallies, club meetings, and other social, educational and
recreational activities.

 Following suggestions made in  the School Board
has ordered the printing of an index to the rules and
regulations, and has passed amendments to rules as follows: (a) The morning recess shall be an outdoor recess,
weather permitting. (b) The sending of warning notice to parents in cases of corporal punishment at school
is optional with principals. (c) Teachers may tutor
publie school pupils in eases of emergency provided permission is obtained from the Superintendent. (d) The
marking system was changed and standardized. (e)

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
The Board of Health was made an advisory body to the
School Board in all matters relating to school hygiene.
(f) The duties and rights of sub-committees were more
clearly defined. ,

 The School Board spends upwards of  month for
books, furniture, equipment, printing and supplies. There
is duplicate requisition system, and triplicate order
system which check absolutely all orders, deliveries and
prices. Paper, note-books and all manner of educational
and building supplies are purchased in bulk in June on
open competitive bids. The books, accounts, orders, etc.,
are open to public inspection at all times.

 The Public Library, through Mr. Frank G. Willcox, has
established in many elementary schools sort of branch
library. Books of standard literature are loaned to the
teachers, who in turn see that the pupils receive them.
During the year books were charged to the various
schools.

XXI. LABORS UNDERTAKEN IN AND  .
During the past two years the School Board agreed to
undertake certain labors. The left-hand column below indieates what these labors were, and the right-hand column
shows what has been done in each case:

 The developing of voca- The Holyoke Vocational
tional education through School has been organized.
household arts and It offers day courses for
science and industrial boys. There are evening
courses. trade extension classes for

any trade, and evening practical arts classes in any work
relative to home-making.

 The building up of This has been done
special department con- thoroughly and satisfactoritrolling all matters of ly. ‘‘Health and School”’
health and physical ed- survey was made by special  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
ucation in the schools, ists. department of school
or related to the schools, hygiene was then organized.
with special attention to In this task the School Board
hygiene and proper med- has made educational history.
ical inspection of See Part VI of this volume.
schools.

 The reorganizing and This task has been satisdeveloping of the special factorily eompleted, with the
departments, that is, exception of the work in
the work in— manual musie.
training, sewing, drawing, writing, musie and
school hygiene.

 The study of the prob- The School Board desiglem relating to the or- nated itself committee of
ganization of the ele- the whole to consider this
mentary schools eight question. Other important
or nine grades; vearly matters have delayed conor half vearly promo- sideration of this weighty
tions; the six-and-six but not extremely pressing
plan, or modification problem. :
of it.

). The examining of atyp- specialist was appointed.
eal children inthe She has made examinations
schools by trained in about half of the schools.
specialist, and the or- One of the two new rooms at
ganizing of special the Elm Street School will
classes under her super- be fitted up for subnormal
vision, children.

 The establishing of a- Certain principals have orwide scheme of home  ganized work in this. No
visiting by teachers. general plan has been made

and no concerted action
taken.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

 The organizing of defi- This was started and ecarnite supervised work in ried on suecessfully last
school and home gar- summer.
dens.

 The furnishing of the This has been done.
Science department of
the High School with a
complete, modern elec- :
trical equipment.

 The selecting and ac- The plot called the Maple
quiring of site for Street playgrounds is now in
large grammar school the possession of the School
for the central district Board. Rough plans for a
—the new Lawrence building on this site have
School. been made and discussed in

sub-committee meeting.

 The taking of proper The city government has
steps to provide more’ provided the play space.
play space for the chil- The School Board has made
dren of the William  definite recommendation in
Whiting School; and the matter of new buildthe erecting of new ing.
building in West Holvoke.

 The putting of the school The Board of Public
halls in proper condi- Works, which controls such
tion for pubhe use both matters, has recommended

, for day and evening as- that this be done.
semblhies.

 The effecting of econo- In each case, overcrowding
mies by closing the in sehool buildings nearby
Ewingville School and made this aetion inadvisaby combining the East ble.

Dwight Street School
with the West Street
School. }

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 The taking of material By various means, this has
inventory of the school been done in general way. .
system. ;

 The establishing of The supply clerk has atlarge central supply tended to this. The central
room and of branch supply room at the Elm
supply rooms in all Street School is unsatisfacschools. tory. The branch supply

rooms are in good condition.

 The putting of the jani- This has been done. The

tor service on basis service is much more efficient.
of economy and effi- It costs less than similar servciency. ice in any city that may reasonably be compared with
Holvoke.
XXII. CONCLUSION.

In closing, your Superintendent wishes to express his
grateful appreciation to the supervisors, principals and
teachers for their continued helpful co-operation; to the various city officials and departments, especially the Board of
Aldermen, the Board of Public Works, the Public Library,
and the Board of Health, for their ready assistance; and
most particularly to the members of the School Board for
their broad and progressive attitude and for the cordial support given to their executive officer.

| Respectfuly submitted,
FRANCIS McSHERRY,
Superintendent of Schools.

PART V. STATISTICAL REPORT OF THE
SUPERINTENDENT

To the School Board of Holyoke:

Your Superintendent submits the following statistical
report under five headings: ,
A—Statisties giving general information regarding the census, number of pupils, attendance, receipts and expenditures.

B—Financial statistics showing how the school appropriation
was spent and giving the accounts with the various
schools. .

C—Attendance statistics covering enrolment, membership,
attendance, number of teachers, distribution of pupils
by schools, grades, ages and courses.

D—Statisties comparing attendance and distribution of pupils, receipts and expenditures through. several school

| years.

E—NMiscellaneous fables and information. ,

UNDER (A) GENERAL STATISTICS.

Population of Holyoke, Massachusetts Census,

April,  ... ce        
Total valuation of property ............... 
School Census, September,  :

Number of children to years of age..  

Number of children to years of age..  

Number of children to years of age.  

Number of children to years of age,  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Number of pupils enrolled in all publie
day schools, year ended June, 
Number under years of age ..........  Number over vears of age ..........  
Number between and vears of age,  
Average membership in all public day schools,
vear ended June, ..........  
Average attendance in all pubhe day schools,
year ended June,  ............  
Percentage of attendance ...............  
Total income of School Board for fiscal vear
ended November  ......... 
*Total expenditure of School Board for fiscal
vear ended November ...... 
Unexpended balance November ....  
Expended from special equipment account for
Gymnasium and Vocational school.  
Expended by Board of Public Works:
New buildings ............  
Alterations and improvements .........  
Ordinary repairs .............       
Fuel, power, hight and water ..........  
Expended Ly Board of Health for medical inSPectlON oo...          
Total expenditure for support of schools, vear
ended November  .........  
Total expenditure for support of schools, vear
 ended June  .............  
Total expenditure for support of schools, vear
ended June  ..............  
**Cost per pupil based on average member} ship, vear ended June  .....  
(ost per pupil based on average membership,
year ended June  .........  
*This includes an expenditure of  which properly belongs to Vocational Education.
**Expenditure for support of all public schools (day and evening) divided
by average membership in day schools.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Cost per pupil in day schools, year ended June
 Lo.   
Cost per pupil in evening schools, year ended
June  ................. ..  
Tax on one dollar of valuation (for support),  
UNDER (B) FINANCIAL STATISTICS.
TABLE I. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
 Receipts.
Dog taxeS .......... ce  ee    
Tuition  ...         
Sale of furniture ................  
Sale of books and supplies ........  
Rental of school halls ............  
Damage to building and furniture, ——: 
Refund on graduation account.....  
————. 
Appropriations:
Salaries ...........  --+ 
Supplies .............---+--.  
. ——— 
Total income ...........-.--  : 
Total expenditures .............-.  
Balanee November ........ Expenditures.
Salaries :
Day school teachers .......... 
‘Evening school teachers ......  
Superintendent ..............  
Secretary to Superintendent...  
Clerks wo.    een  
Attendance officers ...........  
Schoolhouse agent ............  
Janitors and matrons ........  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
CensuS ........        
School hygiene ..............  
Total salaries .................—————. 
Supplies:
Rental ..........  ...  
Furniture equipment .........  
Furniture, repairs and replacementS .........ee     
Janitor and building supphes..  
Educational supplies ........  
Special department supplies... .
Text books ..............  
Support of truants ...........  
Printing and advertising ......  
Telephones ............  ee:  
Freight, express and cartage ..  
LiverV ... cc   eens  
Office equipment ............  
Office expenses ..............  
Transportation of pupils ......  
Graduation and lectures ......  
. Baths ..........       
School hygiene supplies........  
Traveling expenses ...........  
Physical education survey, ete...  
Tuition ......  ec     
Unclassified .............. |
Total supplies .............  
Total salaries and supplies ........ 
Less credits:
Tuition .....  ... cc     
Furniture and supphes .......  
Graduation ............  
Rental of school halls ........  
———— 
Net. expenditure ........... 

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE Il. ESTIMATES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
Salaries :
Day school teachers .......... 
Evening school teachers ......  
School hygiene ...............  
Superintendent ..............  
Secretary to Superintendent.  
Clerks ........ cc     tees  
Attendance officers ...........  
Schoolhouse agent ............  
Janitors and matrons ......... .
CeMSUS ........ cc    ees  
Total salaries ................ ——————. 
Supplies:
Office rental ................. 
Furniture equipment ........  
Furniture, repairs and replacementS .........    
Janitor supplies ..............  
Educational supplies .........  
Special department supplies ..  
Text books .................  
Library books ...............  
Support of truants ...........  
Printing and advertising ..... |
Telephones ............- 
Freight, express and cartage...  
Automobile upkeep ...........  
Office equipment .............  
Office expenses ..............  
) Transportation of pupils ......  
Baths and swimming pool ....  
Graduation and lectures ......  
School hygiene supplies ......  
Unelassified .................  
Total supplies ................ ————— 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
Total estimates .............. 
Less probable receipts ............  
Appropriation requested .......... 
TABLE III. RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES LISTED ACCORDING TO PLAN OF MASSACHUSETTS
BUREAU OF STATISTICS.
Receipts.

Tuition of other than state wards .. 
Dog taxeS  ... ... cc       
Sale of furniture ................  
Sale of books and supplies ........  
Rental of school halls ............  
Damage to building and furniture .. |
Refund on graduation account ....  
Appropriation by city government...  

Total receipts .............. —————— 

Expenditures.
Salary of Superintendent ........ 
| Salaries of clerks (includes 

for Vocational school) ........  
Salaries of attendance officers ..... .
Salary of schoolhouse agent .......  
Printing of School Board report.... .
Office telephones ................  
School telephones ..............  ,
Office equipment ............. 
Office expenses ..........    
Traveling expenses, Committee and

Superintendent ..............  
School census, salaries ............  
School hygiene, salaries ..........  School hygiene, supphes ..........  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
‘Teachers’ salaries: |
High school .................  
Elementary schools ..........  
Kindergarten ................  
Manual training ............  
Evening schools ..............  
Special departments ...........  
Text books and supplies ..........  
Library  ...      |
Tuition paid other schools .........  
Transportation of pupils .........  
Support of truants ...............  
Medical attendance ..............  
Physical education, special ........  
Physical education survey ........  
Janitors :
High school .................  
Gymnasium .............  
Elementary schools ..........  
Evening High school .........  
Evening elementary schools ...  
Evening Vocational school ....  
Manual training room ........  
Office buildmg ..............  
Matrons:
High school .................  
Elementary schools ..........  
Janitor and building supplies ......  
Furniture, repairs and replacements,  
Furniture, new rooms, ete.........  
Office rent  ...         .
Graduation ..........    
Miscellaneous printing and advertisDY oo.       DAVEY   ee  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS |
Freight, express and cartage ..... .
Traveling expenses other than of
Committee and Superintendent,  
Baths  ... ee      
High school office expenses ........  
Emergency room supplies .........  
Lectures ........  ... ce      
Insurance on pictures and statuary,  
Storage and upkeep of automobile.  
Expenditures ................ ————— :
Less receipts for tuition and
rental of school halls ....  
Net expenditure ............... .. .
TABLE IV. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
Salaries Supplies Total
December ............. 
January ...............  .
February ..............  . .
March .................  . 
April .................  . 
| May .................-  . :
June .. ...............  . .
JUly wee      
August ..........     . 
September .............  . 
October ...............  . :
November ..............  . .
Total for year .... :
Total income for year,  .
Balance November .
TABLE V. SPECIAL EQUIPMENT ACCOUNT.
Balance from .......... .
Expended for gymnasium equipment, 

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Expended for Vocational school
| equipment vo... ec     
Total expenditures ........... 
Balance unexpended ......... $. 
TABLE VI. RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR VOCA  TIONAL SCHOOL (DAY AND EVENING) FOR
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER .
}  Receipts.
‘ Appropriation ................... 
Refund from state ...............  
Tuition .......   tees  
Sale of products and supplies ......  
Total receipts ................ ———— Expenditures.
Secretary .......       ees 
Director ...........         
Teachers ...............ee +-+---  
Clerical work ................  
Janitor service .......      
General labor ................ ..  
Office supplies and printing .......  
Telephones and traveling expenses ..  
LeetureS ........  ...      
Books, specimens, ete..............  
School room and shop supplies ....  
Library, periodicals, ete............  
Health, first aid, ete...............  
Transportation ...............  .
Janitor supplies ...............  
Replacement of furniture and equipment .......      
New furniture and equipment ......  
Lunch room account .............  
Total expenditures ............ —————— 
Balance November ... 
Notret.—In addition to expenditures in Table VI, the School Board furnished
clerical and janitor service amounting to The city through special account spent  for equipment. The Board of Public Works furnished fuel,
light, power and water amounting to ,

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VII. COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP.
Day Schools.
Cost Based on Cost Based on
Total Expenses Teaching Only
High (as figured last year)......  
(including special teachers)..  
; Grades Kindergarten
East Dwight Street .............  
Elm Street .................... 
Elmwood .......................  
Ewingville .....................  
Hamilton Street ................  
Highland .......................  
Ingleside .......................  
Joseph Metealf .................  
Kirtland .......................  
Lawrence ........    ees)  
Morgan ............      )  
Nonotuck Street ................  
Park Street ....................  
Sargeant Street .................  
south Chestnut Street .......... 
springdale .................--.  
West Street ............... ..--.  
West Holvoke ..................  .
William Whiting ................  
Evening Schools.
High  ...  ...       
Lawrence ..........       se 
Morgan ......         a.
West Street ....................  
Willam Whiting ..............  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
UNDER (C) ATTENDANCE STATISTICS.
TABLE I. ENROLMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE.
 Total Number Number Average
of Teachers Total Number Belonging Attendance Per Cent.
including Pupils Dec.  for Nov., of AttendPrincipals Enrolled ance
High ..............  
Vocational ........  
Grades ............   
Kindergartens .....  
Snecial Dep’tm’ts... wees wees veces a
   
TABLE II. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY AGES AND
CLASSES—DECEMBER .
Class
Class Age  Total Total
pow crise OR TT [al al al  
Post Graduate Girls 
aor  ‘a  ‘|  |
Senior Girls} ]  
Boys sl ee
Junior CGirrls}  
Boys| sal ‘| is  en
Sophomore Girls]   
Rox al
Freshman  Girls|   
Boys saltselaael  rH |
Total Girls]  
TABLE III. HIGH SCHOOL—AVERAGE AGES—DECEMBER
  .
Class Boys Girls Total
Post Graduate  yrs.  yrs. mos.  yrs. mos.
Senior yrs. mos. ie yrs. yrs. mos.
Junior yrs. mos.  yrs. yrs. mos.
Sophomore  yrs. mos. ts yrs. mos.  yrs. mos.
Freshman  yrs, mos.  yrs. mos.  yrs. mos.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS .
TABLE IV. HIGH SCHOOI—DISTRIBUTION BY CLASSES
AND COURSE S—DLCEMBER .

| Fi 
C  fee eg BE
ass ES  
(és sé :
Gist af |
Post Graduate Girls  
ae | |
Senior Girls  
Bors | |
Junior Girls}  
Boys| | |
Sophomore Girls  
Boys   |
Freshman Girls  
Boys| |
Total  Girls| —- —| 
TABLE V. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS GRAD- UATED JUNE,  .
Course Boys Girls Total
College Preparatory ..............  
Technical .........     ees we  
Commercial ........ ece es  
General ..........cc   cence caves c  
Total... cc cc     ec ece  
TABLE VI. HIGH SCHOQL—NUMBER OF PUPILS ENTERING SEPTEMBER,  .
Boys Girls Total
From Highland School...............-  
From Joseph Metcalf School..........  
From Lawrence School...........c ce  
From Morgan School.............ce  
From West Street School.............  
Others entering ......... ecs  
Total...      ees  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE VII ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—DISTRIBUTION BY
GRADES—DECEMBER .
S
Schools Kgtn. II III IV Chal
V VI VII VIII IX Total
East Dwight St. ‘.. .. ..  .. a.  
Elm St. .. .. .. ..  
Elmwood ..  we oe oe  
Ewinegville -- ce oe ewee Cel
Hamilton St. .. .. .. ..  
Highland ..  
Ingleside ..  .)  
Joseph Metcalf os neoeee 
Kirtland .. ..  
Lawrence e we we we 
Morgan ..  ..  
Nonotuck St. .. .. .. .. 
Park St. -»  we we te oe ee)  
Sargeant St. .. .. .. ..  
So. Chestnut St. .. .. .. ..  
Springdale .. ..  
West St.  
West Holyoke ..  
William Whiting ..  ... ..  
Total  
TABLE VIII. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—NUMBER OF PUPILS GRADUATED JUNE,  .
Boys Girls Total
Highland School .......... cc ss  
Joseph Metcalf School ............... 
awrence School .......... es  
Morgam Sohoold .........      
West Street School ......... ...  
Total........c cc  eeseeves 
TABLE IX. NUMBER OF PUPILS IN GRADE IX, AND AVER: AGE AGE SEPTEMBER,  .
Boys Girls Total Average Age

Highland School ............. yrs. Mos.
Joseph Metcalé School........ yrs. Wos.
Lawremce Sokool ............ yrs. Mos.
Morgan School ..............  yrs. TRos.
West Street School...........  yrs.  eos.

West Holyoke School......... yrs.

Total............. ... 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE X. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—SIZE OF CLASSES
DECEMBER .
(Kindergartens not included.)
Classes of
Classes of Two or Total Total
Single Grade more Grades pupils or less..........++.  to pupils inclusive......  
More than oupils.........  
Total........e.e   
TABLE XI. EVENING SCHOOLS—FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER,  .
Number of Aver
Teachers Number of Number of Nightly
Schools including Pupils Pupils AttendPrincipals Enrolled Belonging ance
High ........   
Lawrence ........es -  
Morgan ........scc  
West Street ..........+.+-  
William Whiting .........  
Total................  
TABLE XII. NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED DECEMBER .
Superintendent of Schools.......... s   
Secretary to Superintendent............cce ec  
Clerks oee eoasneveo oes    vr weseeseevnev tereaeaneve    
Attendence officers ......     cc    ecs B
Schoolhouse agent ....... ec sevecsescvccscnccsees  
Director of School Hygiene...............ec ces   
School Physicians  employed mornings only)............  
—  
In Day Schools:
Men Women Total
High School (including principal and clerk)..  
Vocational School (including director)........ ve  
Elementary school principals who have assisTANS   acn eccrvsvevscevceseses OD  
Elementary school principals in charge of
classes (counted under teachers).
Ninth grade teachers..... s vcvecs  
Eighth grade teachers.......... ceces  
Seventh grade teacherS......c.ecsceccves  
Sixth grade teachers........ eccecceveces  
Fifth grade teachers......... e vecs .
Fourth grade teachers....... ecescces |
Third grade teachers....... ecs  
' Second grade teachers.......e sce es  
, First grade teacherS........cce eccces  
Mixed grade teachers (two or more grades
IM FOOM) Lo. re    ce ssenes  
Teachers of special clasSeS.......es  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Men Women Total
Ungraded school teachers...........c   
Kindergarten teachers ........ceccacecs  
Supervisors and special teachers.............  
Total number of teachers in day schools..  
In Evening Schools:
High School .......... ecceccecceccess  
Vocational School ....... ece  .—Ci
Elementary schools ...........c cc   
Total number of teachers in evening
SCIIOOIS ..    cc cc  cere  scence  
janitors Yo  re  
.  
Total number of persons employed........  
TABLE XIII. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE STATISTICS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE,  .
 tes
SE SS|ss| Eu sa] BY log
Siti ec]  E,]| AS gs
o "a  o§  ") os [ss
SCHOOLS | &s lke
Eo wo! Ew oc  oY (ov
Za  Be]  
Aes)  S) 
oS)  een
  
High ........ ec   ees|   
East Dwight St..............]  ay |
Elm St. .......... -s|  
Elmwood ........-..- + |  
Ewingville ..............+---|  
Hamilton St. ...............]   .
Highland ..................-|  
Ingleside ...............++.+-|  
poseph Metcalf .............|  .
irtland .........e. --}|  
Lawrence ..............- -e-|  
Morgan .............ee. ---| |  
Nonotuck St. .............--|   
Park St. ......... |  
Sargeant St. ...............-]   .
South Chestnut St. ..........]   ’
Springdale .................-|  "
West St. ..........- -|    
West Holyoke ..............]  .
William Whiting ............]   ‘
 .
Evening Schools: gee
ries:
High ............... -e-]  
Lawrence ...............+-+-}  .
Morgan ........cec s{   
West St. ...........- -e]   
William Whiting ............]   

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
mwrto HH SCHASSSHVRASrE AE SLZVSHtAWBOH ONyjo,
SCH QH BR HBVMBPSOSSARNMMMDNMMAMOSNSAMAOSHQ WA
 SRB KS BSVSSSSARGDHDRSAHE SHH GH WO Es
 Owner WOPFPAONDMANDSOWMOWMO ME AW mn rt| Oo Cen
a VOD NA NROAAWMHOAMOGHOAODNMAMALM SO ae O}c|/ E
to Onn tm  re] mon NR et See)  re rail aa
owt i} vor) as
a.
F oo
 
ce en EN Sh 
ery
|
orm  SHMwnmwMNMNonNrRowonoenowvcnw rele  }
SES BS SF SSRRSKSsSRRaeasnaaggs Alsllas
. rea SWHKEMNANKRHDHONSOHMOOS os wn
Als| wmno Sa SSRHSBSaAR GB HLASSASHBS S| ea||  
{x} |} an Ot IHMMODAMOADOOrRANH OADM MIR o&
a|/ DON FM DW MMR BH Went et Oil Ea
[a RR |]  Bll so
a TS eo
Os
o &
U  HOMSOBDNSD SOM MOE MMIOSCOKMOSRNDHOHD wolor||  
— AAMmDONNS  ORMQ MNOEAROAAAAMMOAWQNL YH LR ST
COnNwWnrMOn +! SS AGBAMADSHHONHSOOW OH [a  be
Emiin| SSSnB SSH LESESSSBEXKSERSZSES oja] 
DNealg| RREODHOCAwWH SRO AMMAAWCONW HBMOWH +( ||.
et lia] DOAHMNAA MND MYM AM dtd rii| To
Et ii ammo li ee
a Bl az |
e  
mad Ne) ky wtANRonwnoen SONDSO AIH
Be Sam  SSH SIARQRARSRASSRAREQ BGs
a Oren WM AODHARHROAR-EDONMNAANTH LIai| oe
xn}  BaBSAa  ASRAAERDODOSHMEENS OlaISe
 wOO HOO AMY AMMNKADHOAMASYTKEROAA BDle]|s
ew SF CoH CHA OAM oF oF wo |i se
WN mor G.
  |
| PAE
jaa tf ok \
ao ae
py  
Poe  
BY nn Se   &
T SSP area: dd ae,
Oy) Sop SiS PINS TS eas, oboe ea sien, Se
| .   wn . . .
—™H Sal CL.e.  tel of Ce: OP gre, OL elite) eh de el ei tee, af de” Oe er og
Om .  . . wo
aee ieeeee eae: fi |
| eaeOT esSe    areor et WL
A,   Oeee  ae Rt eure St Oe
A .   VY   Ey
on Ae Be Oe ea ea ca  dios oeemer er hos Pe
aX St  oe   Ree: ae eae ae met were SS |
Sm Pes PTs le PBos ees  Bi   ae
ph. .  . . —
— ta [hee er ae on     Wl) kk
“HH SB tgs TeS si sist ta TRean co   |
fy RSS Nee fT oS Ss ce IM ew ef Sewa tae  |
J || wae oF s®e cS SO eS "mo  o
Os —“— Wf ae yw Ug oom —Q
oom we wae,  om eon ‘a ee]  re
 Wee Oa “OD Ss uns  OS &s  .
  i
| SH oea at ceBe ORS aL HESS  o& ie}
| aU wok sv ‘uur -aS wo Fle  rm ame
ws  SE oT se ap ye aww -c Ww .
nuSae “sb we.”  .@ “eh of -o
wowSUR MWA AWE BVH AGW og oe. ews Ow eS 
Ven GOMOD e.Y Dd  on WwW AO
| RE ae oO a) OD  Dy bo UD  b& ON cos -a.  
UO jp SO YS et CU .* nc  Maw  Oey VU "VV \s TS. oe
SSEROSFUME (PSR IPL VseoOesaW *'Ss  S: She “es
Vo See YY -eC ar  Bue Ges: Hs Siege
on Owe Ee Ree Sty eS SOE PAGG ws messes
jue O- SARESTEZSOS SSM gwos FESS oR Be ac
MSGS  SOUS SS Ooh, oSaeoatce vs
Men, m- E-mini oe ak Masa  a's 
l\aemigk are ROsSLSoCRG SV Pee yw ovoos oe os X
rf  (+V fel fale ry ‘Vv  oom S-i ms ome 
IsOTMONNNENNOCNHOS SSSEL EES Fos aoe |
| IW Oe ROWS yJTOOREMMAIM
|
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE II. THE HIGH SCHOOL.
Expenditure Number of
For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ended not including including Number Number
June Special Teachers Principal Enrolled Belonging
 TT     . 
*In previous years teachers of manual training and sewing were included as
regular teachers.
TABLE III. THE NINE GRADES.
Expenditure Number of
For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ended not including including Number Number
June Special Teachers Principals Enrolled Belonging
  . 
   . 
TABLE IV. THE KINDERGARTENS.
For Year Total Average
Ended Expenditure Number of Number Number
June for Teachers Teachers Enrolled Belonging
    .   . 
TABLE V. THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL.
 .
n QO 
. oe  seetg
. Fy} us eo ed  o. ef  qos zwSita Ge
Boe a. Ey  se SZ sys
mii wy Zia ez  Sam
       .  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VI. THE EVENING VOCATIONAL SCHOOL,
:  wok
Lo wo DB ry) Ose e§ Et ss  
:. reo BE OBB BEB EES
 Es ges ee: oS On  s
tee oe  be ba}
ue mS Zia, Bz zz Pe tne
  |
    ,  .
TABLE VII. THE EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
“a p
is bewe
ts Bs  ace  
g sf ye ae
e fe SESE cE OAT EE
ri ms PAS Ez ae  
  .
    .  .   
TABLE VIII. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES IN
HIGH SCHOOL AND GRADES.
sai  ‘ds le wo! ua
Soa “$  Ss| s
H {    Boe
Dec.,mp  
Dec.,  |  
Dec.,    Dec.,  /  .
Dec.,  /  Dec.,  | )/ REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE IX. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE—
EVENING SCHOOLS.

Dec.  Dec.  Dec. 

' ve, vo, eo,

SCHOOLS Se] fee se] Fee se) Fee
fe Be  Ba 

High ................---|  
Lawrence .............-| 
Morgan ...........+.++-|  
West St. ........-.++++-|  
William Whiting .......|  
Totals...  
TABLE X. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE—

DAY SCHOOLS.

Dec.  Dec.  Dec. 

: Und Ong Uns
CHOO OG Pee we ov wee

SCHOOLS g& €& bee

By  Z* z*
High ...........-...-.--|  -]  .
Vocational .............|  
East Dwight St. ........| |]  
Elm St. ..............+-|  
Elmwood ..............-|  |.  
Ewingville ..............|  
Hamilton St. ...........|  
Highland .....::..:....-| .|  
Ingleside ...........  .
| Joseph Metcalf .........|  .
irtland ...............-} | 
Lawrence ...........-.--|  
Morgan ............+++-|  
Nonotuck St. ...........]|  
Park St. .........-.+ --|  
Sargeant St. ...........]  .

So. Chestnut St. ........]  
Springdale .............|  
West St. ...............|  
West Holyoke ..........|  

William Whiting .......|   
Totals.  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE XI. AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUPILS PER TEACHER
IN THE GRADES, BASED UPON AVERAGE NUMBER
BELONGING FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER.
 
Average number of pupils per teacher, including all principals.................+.  
Average number of pupils per teacher, not |
including principals who have assistants, |
|
UNDER (E) MISCELLANEOUS.
TABLE I. RESIGNATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS—DAY
SCHOOL TEACHERS.
Resignations.
Hazel M. Buckey Harold W. Gammans
Helen G. Burke Chester B. Park
Appointments.
Jeanette H. Baldwin Louis K. Lenderking, Jr.
John C. Carr Mary K. Mahoney
Anna C. Falvey Margaret F. McCaffery
Alice Geran Eileen McCormick .
Rema J. Henderson Clara L. O’Connor
Rose M. Johnson Wilfred H. Ringer
Katherine C. Shea
Leave of Absence.
Mary J. Brainard Mary T. O’Donnell
Mary A. Donoghue Nellie A. Perry
Susan M. Mayo Mrs. Ellen M. Wellington
 ‘TABLE II. RATES OF TUITION FOR NON-RESIDENT
PUPILS.
High School ...................... .-..  per year
Elementary Schools ....................... per year
Day Vocational School .................... per year |
Evening Vocational School ................ per year |
Payable half-yearly in advance.
Evening High School—determined by the School Board. |
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE III. SCHOOL CHILDREN’S AID FUND.

The following table shows the yearly Thanksgiving offering of the children of the public schools. The money is
spent for clothing for needy children:

Year Amount Year Amount
   
 

-  
 . 

Total to date, 

TABLE IV. VALUE OF ART AND SCIENCE COLLECTIONS.
Number of
Reference
Schools Art Science Library
High .............. ---  :
Elm Street ................  .
Elmwood ..............  
Hamilton Street ............  
Highland ..................  
Ingleside ............. s  
Joseph Metcalf ............  
Kirtland ..................  
Lawrence ..............--+  
Morgan .......... s  }
Nonotuck Street ...........  
Sargeant Street .............  
South Chestnut Street ...... 
Springdale .................  
West Street ............ 
West Holyoke .............  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
ee
IN MEMORIAM.
KATHERINE E. BROWNE.
Appointed teacher in the Holyoke Public Schools
September,  .
Died October  th,  .
Resolutions Adopted by the School Board.
WHEREAS it has pleased Almighty God to recall to Himself our
most worthy friend and fellow-worker,
KATHERINE E. BROWNE,
and
Whereas we members of the Holyoke School Board feel deep
sorrow for the loss of so true woman and so devoted teacher; be it
RESOLVED that, as tribute of love and appreciation, we give
this recognition of her splendid character and her loyal service, and
this testimony to our helief that she gave the last full measure of devotion in the interests of the children she loved; and be it further
RESOLVED that this expression of our grief be written in our
records, made known to the family of the deceased, and placed on
printed page.
JOHN F. KENNEDY,
DENNIS F. LYNCH,
AUGUST H. BAUSH,
Committee on Resolutions.
ee

PART VI.
DEPARTMENT OF SCHOOL
 HYGIENE

In March,  the Committee on Special Departments
recommended to the Board that commission of three experts,
acting with said Committee, be empowered to make an investigation and survey of local school work relative to health
and physical education, with view to developing this work
to its fullest efficiency along the best lines. The following
commission was chosen:

Dr. Thomas F. Harrington of Boston.
Dr. George L. Gabler of Holyoke.
Mr. Lewis A. Allen of Hartford.

The members of the Committee on Special Departments

were: "
Mr. Joseph B. Weis.
Mr. Dennis F. Lynch. :
Dr. Joseph H. Potts.
Francis MeSherry, Secretary.

The first conference was held on Wednesday eveninging March The following topics were discussed at
length :

 Facts regarding the Existing Department of Health and

Physical Education.

(a) Organized as department of the whole school sys. tem in September,  when Mr. Daniel J. Kelly
was chosen director of work at the High School. ;
(b) In April,  Mr. Louis K. Appel began work
as director of Physical Education in the elementary schools.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
(ec) In September,  Miss Welen Thompson began
work for girls of the Tigh School.
(d) The new Iligh School Gymnasiuin was opened in
September,  .

 Fundamental Aims of Department of Health and Physieal Education in Publie School System.

 Health Division.

(a) Work in Hygiene, Sanitation and Physiology in the
regular classes.

(b) Oral Hygiene, Sight and Hearing Tests.

(ec) Medical Inspection.

(d) School nurse.

(e) Care and Sanitation of School Buildings and
Property.

 Physical Education Division.

(a) Physical Training in Elementary Schools.

(b) Grammar School Athletic League for Boys.

(c) Physical Training in High School.

(d) Holyoke High School Athletic Association for
Boys.

(e) Class teams in High School. (For all students.)

(f) Miltary Drill.

(g) Efficiency Tests.

(h) Use of Recesses.

 Correlation with Other Work. Health, Physical Education, Hygiene, Physiology, Medical Inspection and Athletics are means to the same end and should correlate.

 Co-operation with Other Boards. The Board of Health,
Park Commission, Playground Commission and School
Board should work together.

On Thursday, March  the investigation and survey
continued as follows:

 Inspection of IDgh School Gymnasium, equipment,
methods of instruction, system, ete.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  Conference with Physical Director for Bovs.
(a) Training and experience.
(b) Plan of work for Health.
(ec) Plan of work in Physical Education.
(d) Physical examinations and records.
(e) Ciass Instruction.
(f{) Athletics.
(g) Plans for development.
 Conferenee with Physical Director for Girls on same
points as above.
 Conference with Principal of High School.
dD. Inspection of several elementary schools.
 Observation of work of typical classes under Physical

Director and teachers at South Chestnut Street School.
 Conference with Physical Director of Elementary Schools.

(a) Training and experience.

(b) Plan of work for Health.

(ec) Plan of work in Physical Education.

(d) System of Physical Training.

(e) Examinations and records.

(f) Class instruction.  
(g) Course of study. .

(h) Athletics for boys and girls.

( Plans for development.

On Thursday evening, Mareh  the members of the Survey Committee conferred with the School Board, prineipals,
physical directors, and others with view to making further
study of the present situation and to formulating plans for
the development of the work. The following topics received
particular consideration :

 The work of department of School Hygiene.

 Establishing of special aims of the department.

 Outline work of Health Division.

 Outline work of Physical Edueation Division.

 Correlation with other school work. ,

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 Co-operation with other city boards and departments.

 Statement of Holyoke’s present position.

 Presenting of recommendations in an informal and general way.

On Friday, March  the Survey Committee and the
Secretary met to begin the preparation of written report.

Later in the month complete report was received by
the School Board. In this valuable document, the work relative to health and physical education in the public schools of
Holyoke in the past and present was most clearly explained,
and definite plans for the future were recommended.

The Committee on Special Departments made careful
study of the report, accepted it, summarized it and recommended to the full Board that it be adopted, and that the organization of the new department of School Hygiene be effected
as soon as possible. In view of the length of the report of the
Survey Committee and the number of printed courses submitted with it, it seems best to publish the summary, which
is herewith presented :

REPORT OF SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS COMMITTEE

TO SCHOOL BOARD ON HEALTH AND PHYSI| CAL EDUCATION.

Acting with power granted by the School Board at the

, meeting held March the Special Departments Committee has made survey of the department of Health and
Physical Education. The main object of the survey was not
only to study present conditions, but also to establish basis
and make recommendations for the development of this department to high point of efficiency. This report of the
Special Departments Committee is based on report made by
a Survey Committee of three experts, who spent three days
in investigating the department in question. The full report of this Survey Committee is at the disposal of the members of the Board and the public in general. This report of
the Special Departments Committee here presented is made
under six headings as follows:

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Reasons for Survey; Method of Making Survey; Critieisms of Present Conditions; Good Points Found; Recommendations Conclusion.
REASONS FOR SURVEY.

 The School Board should offer to school children the means of
systematic physical development so that these children may be
better prepared for efficient work in life.

 The School Board is in duty bound to put the pupils into possession of those facts which will help them now and in the future to
throw off the burden of preventable disease.

 Work in Health and Physical Education in all branches should be
planned for all the children in all the schools.

 Is the present investment in the department of Health and Physical Education paying the dividends it should pay? Cannot reorganization and possible increased investment bring far greater
dividends?

 The School Board reports of  and have urged that
this survey be made.

  The High School Gymnasium, one of the best in the country, the
heart of the present department of Health and Physical Education, should have completely organized department worthy of it.

 Holyoke has an opportunity for educational leadership in the state
and among cities of her size in the country along the lines of
health work in the school.

METHOD OF MAKING SURVEY.

 Three experts were engaged, Dr. T. F. Harrington, director of
school hygiene in Boston; Mr. Lewis Allen, physical director in
the Hartford public schools; Dr. G. L. Gabler, former physical
director and now head of physical department in Holyoke
Y.M.C.A.

 Conferences were held by. the Survey Committee with the Special
Departments Committee and members of the School Board.

 Private conferences were held with teachers of physical education, school principals, city and school officials.

 Gymnasia and class rooms were inspected, work of instructors
was observed, and methods of instruction, system, etc., carefully
studied.

 Study of work in physiology and hygiene in the High School and

. the elementary schools was made. as well as study of the possibility of use of proposed swimming pool and outdoor track and
athletic field near the High School.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 The method of medical inspection of schools as carried on by the
Board of Health was studied in general way.

 There was general conference at which School Board members,
physical instructors, and others gave evidence.

 The Survey Committee met and prepared tentative report and
later final report.

 The Special Departments Committee considered the report of the
Survey Committee most carefully in the preparation of this report to the School Board. This report is summary of the report of the Survey Committee.

CRITICISMS OF PRESENT CONDITIONS. .

 The content and kind of instruction at the High School does not
measure up to the possibilities. The investment can be made to
pay better dividends.

 Physical training is not extended to all High School pupils and
classes, and the athletic teams are maintained for chosen few.

 Physiology and hygiene are not given proper emphasis as required
studies in all schools.

 Outside of athletic teams there is no definite plan of work in
health and physical education at the High School, and no correlation between gymnasium work and classes in physiology and
hygiene.

 The physical director at the High School should not be held responsible for physical examination of punils. He has not been
trained to bear the responsibility of deciding medical questions.
Physiology and hygiene should be supervised and taught by an
expert. .

 There is no definite grading of High School pupils sent to the
gymnasium. This handicaps the instructors.

‘  The work in health and physical education in the Vocational
School should be supervised by the department of health and
physical education and not by trade teacher. Arrangements for
this should be made by the School Board with the Board of Trustees according to state law relative to supervision, reimbursement,
etc.

 The work in physical training in the grades should be more recreative and less intensive.

 The grade instructor should hold group conferences of teachers.
 Athletics in grammar grades should be more thoroughly organized.
 Health supervision of schools in accordance with Chapter  ,

Acts of  Massachusetts, and medical inspection of schools
should be put on better basis. The work is now unsatisfactory.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
GOOD POINTS FOUND.

 The new gymnasium as center for this department is ideal in
location, plans and equipment. It has no supcrior in the country.
It offers great possibilities.

 The athletic organization at the High School in charge of school
teams is on good basis. The coach has done good work as a
coach in developing the specialized athletic teams.

 The instructor for girls at the High School has done good work.
In comparing her with others it should be remembered that her
work began last September.

 Physical education in the grades is better organized than in the
High school. There is definite plan of work laid out.

 The instructor in the grades seems especially well qualified for
his work. The grammar school athletic league offers beginning
for well organized work in grammar school athletics.

 There are splendid foundations laid in Holyoke for work in
school hygiene that will set standard for other cities. .

 The attitude of the School Board in taking up this big problem is
most commendable and original. That Hol\oke has had the first
“Health and the School” Survey in Massachusetts means great
deal for this new educational movement.

RECOMMENDATIONS.
 Your Committee recommends that definite plan of bringing together all agencies in the city in the interests of the health and
physical education of all school children should he inaugurated:
that the present department of health and physical education be
reorganized to meet these conditions.

 Your Committee recommends that this reorganized department be
named the department of school hygiene consisting of two divi' gions:

(a) Health division.
(b) Physical Education division.

 Your Committee recommends that the Health division plan and
take charge of the following work:

(a) An efficient system of medical inspection of schools.

(b) Follow up of work of medical inspection of schools by
means of school nurses.

(c) Physical examination of all school pupils and keeping
of life cards.

(d) Introduction of new course in nhysiology and hygiene
in the grades, High School and Vocational School. In
the case of the Vocational School. arrangements must be
made with the Board of Trustees.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

(e) Definite instruction and inspection relative to class room
sanitation, that is, heating, ventilating, lighting, seating,
etc.

(f) Special attention to occupational illness and diseases, industrial accidents, and shop hygiene with reference to
the Vocational School.

(g) More rigid enforcement of health laws relative to working certificates.

(h) The items above should cover all schools, day and evening.

(i) This work in health and physical education should be

made compulsory throughout the entire school system.
 Your Committee recommends that the Physical Education division
plan and take charge of the following work:

(a) Gymnastics, calisthenics, free standing exercises, drills,
apparatus work, games, plays, dances, etc., for pupils of
the High School.

(b) printed course of study for (a) is submitted herewith.

(c) Gymnastics, exercises, games, plays, dances, corrective
exercises, etc., for pupils of elementary schools.

(d) printed course of study for (c) is submitted herewith.

(e) Organized inter-school athletics at the High School—
school teams.

(f) General athletics for all boys and girls of the High
School. course is-herewith submitted.

(g) Organized inter-school athletics for grammar schools—
teams.

(h) General athletics for boys and girls in grammar schools,
with physical efficiency tests. course is herewith submitted.

( Miltary drill in grammar schools and in High School.

(j) Co-operation in gymnastics, athletics, etc.. of this division with the playground work, supervised by the Playground Commission.

(k) This work in health and physical education should be
made compulsory throughout the entire school svstem.

 Your Committee recommends that director of the department of
school hygiene be chosen: that this director be physician and,
that in addition to his medical training he have experience in the
work of medical inspection of schools and school sanitation; that
he supervise and teach physiology and hygiene in the High School
and grades, and that he be skilled supervisor of physical trainf
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
) ing and athletics; that he be subject to the Board and Superintendent, and act as the executive officer and supervisory head of
the department of school hygiene.

 Your Committee recommends that competent man be placed in
charge of all gymnastics, class-room physical exercises, and drill
work in the High School and grades, and that an assistant be furnished him when the need arises, these instructors to be responsible to the director of school hygiene.

 Your Committee recommends that competent man be placed in
charge of all athletic work in the High School and elementary
schools, both for the teams and in general athletics, and that a
woman assistant be assigned to him to take charge of work in
health and physical education (including athletics) for the girls of
the High School, both to be responsible to the director of school
hygiene.

 Your Committee recommends that system of school nursing be
planned in connection with medical inspection. and that school ,
nurse or school nurses be appointed under Civil Service regulations, and made responsible to the director of school hygiene.

 Your Committee recommends that open air recesses be made compulsory; that definite periods for daily physical exercises be established in the grades; that ten-minute setting-up drills he established in the High School; that open air classes be organized; and
that great care be given the proper seating of pupils.

 Your Committee recommends that the Massachusetts Legislature
be asked to pass legislation similar to Chapter  Acts of  .
transferring the medical inspection of schools from Board of
Health to School Board in this city.

CONCLUSION.

In closing this report the Special Departments Committee requests
careful consideration of the recommendations made, and hopes that the
full report will be adopted. In matters relating to medical inspection,
health supervision, and the teaching of physiology and hygiene, the

School Board is not fully living up to the state law. The investment
of the city in large school gymnasium is not paying proper dividends.

To get results there must be properly organized department. The

‘ most expert opinion in the country has suggested what that organization should be. It is clear that for such department there must be  

competent head, skilled in the application of preventive medicine to

the problems of health and physical education in the schools, and pos  REPORT OF THLE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

sessed of the executive and business ability, the experience in matters

relative to athletics and physical training, and the sound judgment that

will make department of school hygiene all that it should be.
Respectfully submitted,

JOSEPH B. WEIS, Chairman;

DENNIS F. LYNCH,
JOSEPH H. POTTS,

FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary,

Special Departments Committee.
Shortly after it had been determined to organize the

School Hygiene department as outlined above, the School

Board adopted the following rule:

“Mfedical inspectors shall co-operate with principals and teachers
in caring for the physical welfare of pupils. They shall perform their
duties in accordance with Chapter of the Acts of  Massachusetts, and any acts in amendment thereof. They shall visit regularly
the schools to which they are assigned and carefully guard the health
of the pupils and watch the sanitary conditions in the building. In all
matters relating to medical inspection of schools the Board of Health
shall have the privilege of sitting in joint session with the School
Board in advisory capacity, and member of the Board of Health,
designated by said Board, may sit in joint session with the Special Departments Committee when such matters are under consideration. Said
member or members of the Board of Health shall not have vote in
said sessions.” .

Early in May,  the Massachusetts Legislature was
asked to pass, and later did pass, an act which placed the medical Inspection of schools in Holyoke under the supervision
of the School Board. This act was passed not only with the

consent of the Board of Health, but at their request, as a

measure of co-operation. The act follows:

“AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE SCHOOL BOARD OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE TO APPOINT SCHOOL PHYSICIANS,
MEDICAL INSPECTORS, AND SCHOOL NURSES IN THAT
CITY.”

“SECTION  So much of Chapter of the Acts of  and of
Acts in amendment thereof, as provide that in cities the Board of '
Health shall appoint school physicians, shall not apply to the City of
Holyoke, and the school physician, or physicians, in that city shall be
appointed and controlled by the School Board.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

“SECTION  Such appointments or reappointments shall, in all
‘cases, be in conformity with the rules, regulations, and requirements
-of the Massachusetts Civil Service Commission. .

“SecTION  This Act shall take effect upon its acceptance by the
Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke with the approval of the
“Mayor.” .

In August, Dr. Walter F. Cobb of Cape Girardeau, Mo.,
was elected Director of School Hygiene. Mr. Daniel J. Kelly,
Mr. Louis K. Appel, and Miss Helen Thompson remained as
‘directors of Physical Education for High School boys, for
elementary schools and for High School girls, respectively.
‘The following excerpts from the records of the School Board
meeting of October show how the work. progressed :

“For the Special Departments Committee, the policies and plans
of the department of school hygiene were explained and brief history of the work done to date was presented. In explaining that this
‘department embraced medical inspection and health supervision in all
schools of the city, both public and private, supervision of special and
‘general athletics in the public grammar schools and High School, phys. ical and medical examination of all athletes and candidates for the
teams, physical examinations of all school pupils with making of life
cards. teaching of physiology and hygiene in all grades and High
School, arrangement and supervision of work in gymnastics and calisthenics, schoolhouse sanitation. and general health work, it became
‘evident that Dr. Cobb alone could not be expected to do even large
part of this work. It was, therefore, recommended and voted bv the
Board that the following appointments be made:

“A permanent school physician, devoting all his time to the work, 
with the stipulation that he conduct no office and have no private
practice.

“A part-time physician, devoting mornings to the work. :

“A woman physician for the girls of the High School.”

' Dr. Harold E. Miner was elected to the full-time position; Dr. Edward P. Hand was chosen for the part. time po‘sition; and Dr. Honoria K. Shine was elected physician of
the girls of the High School on part time.

When this organization was perfected, and the various
‘duties definitely assigned, the work of the School Hygiene department went forward with energy and enthusiasm. The

— REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Director, Dr. Walter F. Cobb, has made his first report as
follows:

“The Director of School Hygiene herewith submits his first report
of this department. The report is presented under the general topics.
of Organization, Medical Inspection, Division of Epidemiology, Hygiene and Sanitation, Physical Education, Playgrounds and Employment Certficates. These topics have been developed by giving (a) the
policy, (b) the present status of the subject, and (c) suggestions for
your consideration.

 Organization. The department of school hygiene was organized early in September,  Its policy was largely formulated on
the recommendations made by the special Health Survey Committee.
The careful consideration which was given to the question of school
hygiene by this committee has enabled this department to shape its
policy with fairly clear vision of its possibilities. Its policy, therefore, has been outlined with due heed to future developments. At
present we can realize but few of our ideals. place for the development of others has been reserved in the general scheme of office
records and in our printed matter. ‘The correlation of all the agencies
in existence in the city for bettering the health and physical education
of the pupils,’ expresses briefly the policy of this new department.

II. Medical Inspection. As to policy, medical inspection should
concern itself with the detection of disease, physical and mental defects and unhygienic conditions surrounding the pupil. Properly carried out it should conserve, protect and develop the health of the pupil
and the teacher. It is but means to an‘end. Its goal is ‘Health and
Sanitary Preparedness’ on the part of the public.

“With reference to the present status of the work, all schools in
the city, both public and parochial schools, are visited at least once a
week. The school physician takes note of the ventilation, tempera-.
ture and cleanliness in each room. Pupils are inspected for evidence
of fever, contagious disease or physical defects. All pupils who have
been absent from school on account of sickness or from unknown
cause are examined. Pupils are excluded if conditions warrant, and
the parents are notified. Records of all exclusions and notices sent
home are kept in duplicate and filed. The sanitary condition of the
school and surroundings is matter of record. Our records for the
past four months show the following, which is of some interest in the
field of preventive medicine as applied to the school: Seven cases of
diphtheria and diphtheria carriers, and eight cases of scarlet fever were
discovered in school bv the school physicians. No one can estimate
the amount of sickness which was avoided by promptly discovering
these cases and excluding them. Many cases of chicken pox, whooping

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
courh, pediculosis, scabies and ring-worm were discovered. Children
are receiving physical and medical examination which becomes a
permanent record. Over children have been vaccinated and subsequent attention given to the arms.

“These suggestions are offered:

The need of school nurse is imperative.

I believe that each school should have properly equipped
first-aid cabinet and that the principal and teachers should receive at least one demonstration in the use of it. The demonstration should be made early in each school year. This department is in position to offer the instruction.

In cases where pupils are quarantined for the contagious diseases, more particularly diphtheria and scarlet fever. it seems
to me that we might well consider the advisability of destroying all school books returned from family with either of
these diseases. The efficiency of fumigation is questionable.
The danger is problematical, but we have to confront it.

: Hygiene is of paramount importance in the kindergarten. This
is the age of greatest suscentibility to contagious diseases. I
 beheve that there is field for reform in the work of our
elementary classes, even though conditions are very good. I
refer to the practice in some rooms of making scissors, colored pegs and pencils articles of common use. This is the
age when children are most susceptible to disease. If we are
to believe that disease ts contracted from infectious saliva,
nasal secretions, coughing and sneezing (and children least
observe the laws of hygiene), then we should see that eaclt
child has separate envelope for his material. do not consider it wise to seat children opposite each other at the tables.
The reasons are obvious.

There should be small relief fund. Our work has too often
stopped when we have pointed out defects in the pupil. A
school nurse would help considerably. There still will remain,
however, the necessity for having small fund available for
assistance in selected cases.

Your Committee has emphasized the need of installing systems of baths. They lend themselves to important extension
work in the summer as well.

Medical supervision in the schools may be made more. successful by publishing the regulations of the department of
school hygiene. There is need of better acquaintance between
the principals, teachers, janitors and matrons, and the work in
medical supervision which this office is directing. The material
for such manual is ready for your consideration and suggestions.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

“III. Division of Epidemiology. Undoubtedly the largest factor
in school absenteeism is contagious disease. The sick are isolated, and
very properly so. It is customary to quarantine the family in all cases.
Usually, in case of diphtheria and scarlet fever, all school children
from the same house are quarantined. Whether it is well-to quarantine so extensively is debatable question. Precedent has decided our
course possibly more than experience and recent medical discovertes.
While it is the office of the Board of Health to regulate all matters of
contagious disease, believe that any studies we may make on this
subject will be courteously considered by them. By prompt discovery

; and exclusion of children with contagious diseases, intensive inspection
and disinfection wherever disease appears to have focus, and study
of the cases with view to preventing further infection, we hope to
get results. The employment of school nurse will do much to lessen
absenteeism. At present the Board of Health reports all cases of contagious diseases to this office. Records are kept of the case, viz., date
-of quarantine and release, school attended, and when last present, number of cases traceable to any case, the history, and whether subsequent cases come from children who have been quarantined or from
children in school. Diseases are grouped according to home address
‘Of pupils, as well as school.

“These suggestions are offered:

I believe that health posters have place in the school. They
are instructive. Thev teach lesson to young people that no
teacher can present. The drawing department might assist in
the work and make the expense practically nothing.

I suggest that the School Board consider the advistability of
securing sets of slides and any other equipment which may be
needed, and arrange for number of popular talks on hvgiene
and the allied subjects in day and evening schools. Our work
is but begun when we complete our plans for campaign in
the schools. It is my belief that much good could be accomplished by employing this means of educating the parents. If
they understand the reasons why we recommend glasses for
their children, attention to earache, consultation about mouth
breathing and strict observance of the quarantine rules, etc.,

. their seeming lack of regard for the welfare of their children
will shift to ready co-operation with the school authorities.

“ V. Hygiene and Sanitation. This department aims to make in‘struction in some phase of hygiene part of the course of study in
‘every grade from the kindergarten through the elementary and grammar grades. It advocates course in preventive medicine for the High
‘School (senior class), industrial and shop hygiene for the vocational

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
students, and work in physiology and hygiene for the evening schools
as well.

“The director of school hygiene has given, during the last term,
a course of lectures on hvgiene and preventive medicine to the first
and second-year classes at the High School. There were forty lectures given in all. similar course has been started at the Vocational School. Some seventeen classes have heen met. Sanitary surveys have been submitted.

“These suggestions are offered:

Courses of study in physiology and hygiene should be  introduced on definite basis in all the grades. An outline of such
a course has been prepared, and is ready for approval.

Manikins should be provided to help the physiological work in
the eight grades.

I recommend the appointing of teacher of hygiene and first
aid in the Evening High School. If it seems wise to introduce these subjects, and no finances are available, the department of school hygiene will try to have one of its staff volunteer his services.

“V. Physical Education. The policy is ‘physical training rather
than physical straining.’ Physical training should be part of the required work in the grades, High School and Vocational School. It
should be offered in all evening schools of the city.

“At present, all the boys and girls in the High School taking part
in anv school gymnastic or athletic activity have received physical
and medical examination. This is also true of the Vocational School.
Results have justified this regulation. Notices of hitherto unknown
organic conditions, in some cases serious, have been sent to the parent
and the pupil’s physical activities modified to mect the condition. A
definite policy for the High School and the Vocational School has been
formulated. The directors of physical education have their work well
organized. The work is entirely satisfactory. The director of school
hygiene is directing the gymnasium classes at the Vocational School.
He supervises the gymnasium classes for ninth grade hoys who meet in
the High School Gymnaium on Saturday mornings. The work in the
grades  being carried on along the same policy as last year, which
proved successful.

“These suggestions are offered:

Facilities for teaching swimming would be greatly improved
by the equipment of an overhead oval trolley. The present
arrangement can accommodate but few at time.

When finances permit, believe that player piano should be
purchased for the gymnasium. Music is of considerable as  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
sistance in marching, drills and folk dancing. At present the
music is furnished by pupils from the class. Oftentimes no
one in the class can play, and the work suffers.

There is need of regular canvas covering for the protection
of the track when it is used for gallery. Special chairs
should be used and equipped with rubber tips.

Better arrangements for lockers or hooks for hanging clothes
upon are needed if the gymnasium privilege is extended to the
Evening High and Vocational Schools.

The work for girls in the High School is handicapped in the
fall and spring by lack of outdoor equipment. Girls should

; secure their exercise out-of-doors at these seasons of the year.
The facilities for exercise are few. recommend that steps
be taken to secure four tennis courts and an outdoor basketball and volley ball court.

There is need of one or more enclosed ice hockey rinks with
proper banks and nets, where the High School boys and boys
in the upper grades can play. Without space reserved for
hockey, the game becomes danger to others. It is too good
a sport to be ruled out. recommend that plans be made to
secure rink, and that it be used for inter-class games.

There is demand for gymnasium classes for the Evening
High School. While the gymnasium is much busier this year
than last year, because it is now being used by the High
School, Vocational School, Rosary and St. Jerome High
Schools for basketball games, there is time to extend this
privilege, if we can secure leader. The director of school

 hygiene will volunteer his services to the students of the
Evening High School.

“VI. Playgrounds. Experience testifies to the importance of organized playground work in the schools. Cities with more resources
than Holyoke have set the example with excellent results. believe
that the time has come for us to consider carefully the adoption of
‘definite work at recess. Organized play eliminates the ‘bully,’ raises
the standard of morality and fosters spirit of democracy. It teaches
obedience through discipline and develops the spirit of fair play. It readjusts the mental focus of the child. It increases the circulation,
stimulates deep breathing and corrects postural deformities. The
teacher is benefited as well as the pupil. The best interests of the pupil
are served by ha-‘ng certain periods reserved for one or two classes.
The classroom teacher has charge of the class, and discipline is easy.
Basketball, volley ball and baseball schedules can be conducted. Practice in athletics may be offered and definite work accomplished. Once
or twice week the regular recess may be tried. Little or no organREPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
ized work of this kind is being done in any of the schools at present.
It is suggested that schools having playgrounds be equipped with apparatus for playing basket and volley ball, jumping pit and standards, horizontal bar and supply of balls and bean bags. Swings,
a giant stride and slide are desirable. Part of the equipment might
be made by the boys, as manual training work. The girls could make
the bags. think that if we can open up the use of school playgrounds to more than just recess, to certain classes during the day one
or more times week, we will do much towards solvine the problem of
physical training in the schools.

“VII. Working Cards. The medical and physical examinations,
required by law in the case of applicants for employment certificates
under sixteen years of age, are made at this office. The hours are
  to  to  to  to  .

“Conclusion. In closing this report, wish to acknowledge with
full appreciation the excellent work which is being done by the members of this staff. Holyoke has been fortunate in being served by such
conscientious officials. For all the members of the school hygiene department have the highest praise. It is with pleasure that acknowledge the very hearty and helpful co-operation of the Board of
Health. This consider most important. My acquaintance with your
Board has been real help to me. It is my hope that the foundations
of the department of school hygiene have been so placed that the work
of the new year will amply justify your faith in it.”

The following excerpts from various reports made to the
Director of School Hygiene show in general way that the
policies of the department are being well carried out:

“Before entering physical training classes every boy is required to
undergo thorough physical examination. At present there are two
hundred and seventy-three boys enrolled in the classes, each boy reporting twice week. Our aim is that the physical work in its various
branches shall be taken by as many boys as possible. For the benefit
of the boys who do not play on the school or class teams, many basketball leagues were formed during the winter term, and these leagues
helped many boys.” (From Report of Daniel J. Kelly, Physical Director at High School.)

“Much work has been given to the girls in the open air, in the
form of walking, baseball and tennis. Every girl taking gymnasium
work has had physical and medical examination. In November the
regular indoor work for the winter was started. It is practically the
same as last year with harder and more advanced work for the ad‘vanced classes. There will be more work in folk dancing this year.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
We aim always to give the physical work to all the pupils, not to  
chosen few.” (From Report of Helen F. Thompson, Physical Director for Girls at High School.) .
“The gymnastic lessons include all the necessary features, educa-.
tional, recreative and physiological. When given in the proper manner:
by the regular teacher, the lessons are enjoyed very much on the part.
of the children. J.essons are changed every two weeks, and in this.
manner, monotony is avoided. Active games are employed to great.
advantage in the grades. Only those are selected which employ half or
all the children at time. Action is the thing to be desired. The best
gymnastic lesson is that which employs all the children all the time, not.
only in the things they like most but in the things they need most. In
the work of the grades good variety of material has accumulated. In
one month’s work in grade there are two different ‘formal’ lessons,
one play, one dance and one game.” (From Report of Louis Appel,
Physical Director in Elementary Schools.)

The aim of this part of the annual volume has been to
explain the origin, policies, development, progress and needs
of the School Hygiene department. Due credit must be
given to the Survey Committee, the Director of School Hygiene, and others, who have been quoted at length. In closing it seems proper to quote two authorities as follows: Dr.
Dudley A. Sargent of Harvard University recently said:
‘“What America most needs is some way of giving those physieal advantages to the masses which she now lavishes on the:
favored few—some way of providing more athletic students.
and fewer student athletes.’’ The editor of the American
Medical Journal has declared that ‘‘Any system of athletics.
which finds its best expression in competition and has as its.
chief end the development of athletic supremacy, fails to meet
the real hygienic needs of youth and to serve for the proper
perfection of the body.’’

Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS McSHERRY,
Superintendent of Schools. ,

PART VII.
REPORT OF ATTENDANCE
OFFICERS
To the School Board of Holyoke:

The report of the attendance officers for the school year
ending June is herewith submitted. It is the fortyfirst annual report of this department.

In accordance with our recommendation of last year,
the Committee on Attendance, Census and Truancy appointed
but foureten census enumerators. The plan worked successfully. We would again recommend the engaging of but
fourteen enumerators for the census of September,  .

The total number of children over five and under sixteen
years of age was  that is, more than the number reported in  The census of was taken more rapidly
than any census in the history of this department. It was
completed in seven and one-fourth working days, and was
most thoroughly done.

Several complaints have reached us from other cities regarding the manner of taking the census under the new system prescribed by the State Board of Education. The difficulties experienced in other places are common to all cities
and towns. The system is complicated and easily disorgan. ized. It requires constant attention. Fortunately we have
been able, thus far, to keep it in splendid order. The workings of this department are open to public inspection. We
have invited many attendance officers throughout the state
to visit Holyoke and see smoothly running school attendance
department. In this work we have been ably assisted by the
office clerks.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
The school attendance and the child labor laws nave been
enforced in manner that would at once serve the interests
. of the child, the employer and the Commonwealth. The
business depression continued throughout the past school year,
and again made its influence felt on school attendance in certain sections of the city.
We gratefully acknowledge the efforts of the employers
to conform to the requirements of the child labor laws.
From September to June eighteen summonses were served for eases of truancy. Ten of these boys
were probated, and their cases were continued from time to
time throughout the year. They were finally discharged, together with boy whose case was earried over from the previous year. Eight boys were committed to the Training
School in Springfield. At this time nine boys from this eity
are at the Hampden County Training School.
From September to September this department issued educational certificates to iterate minors
between the ages of sixteen and twenty-one; also educational certificates to illiterate minors of the same age limits.
These, together with employment certificates issued, make
a total of certificates of all kinds issued during the pe- |
riod.
The attendance officers present below schedule of visits ,
which they make to the various publie and private schools of
the city in the performance of their duties. In connection
with his work as schoolhouse agent, Mr. Edouard Cadieux devotes part of his time to the schools indicated.
SCHEDULE OF VISITS.
Thomas E. Gallagher. |
School Visit School Visit !
West Street cepecg livery day St. Jerome ...........Every day
 E. Dwight Street......Every day Notre Dame ..........Every day
Holy Rosary ..........Every day Perpetual Help .......Every day
- Im. Conception .......Every day Highland ..............Upon call |
Ewingville .............Upon call Nonotuck St. ..........Upon call |
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Thomas H. Finn.

School Visit School Visit
Precious Blood .......Every day Metcalf ...............Upon call
Park Street ...........Every day Elmwood ..............Upon call
Hamilton St. .........Every day Springdale ............Upon call
Sargeant St. ..........Every day Ineleside ..............Upon call
Morgan ..............-Every day High ..................Upon call
Sacred Heart ......Twice week Vocational ........Twice week

Edouard Cadieux (part time).

School Visit School Visit
Elm St. ..............Every day Mater Dolorosa....Twice week
Whiting ..............Every day So. Chestnut  St........Every day
Lawrence .............Every day |! Kirtland ...........Twice week

The West Holyoke School is visited upon special call.
Schools marked “Upon call” must be visited once week, and additionally as often as the principal requests.

The first four tables which follow give figures relating
to school census, children seven to fourteen years of age, and the school population in September,  .

TABLE I. SCHOOL CENSUS.

Wards  Totals
Sept., ........  
Sept. ........  

Net gain in over  .....    ee     

TABLE II ANALYSIS OF SCHOOL CENSUS.
 

Wards Boys’ Girls Boys Girls Boys’ Girls Boys Girls Totals
  

 

 , 

 

 

 

 

Subtotals    
Totals,  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TABLE III. CHILDREN WITHIN COMPULSORY SCHOOL
ATTENDANCE AGE—  TO  .
Wards Total
Sept., Boys  
Girls  
Totals,  
Number of boys and girls seven to fourteen years of age,  
TABLE IV. SCHOOL POPULATION,  .

Pupils attending public schools.......... ecscs  
Pupils attending St. Jerome School............ ceseceses  
Pupils attending Precious Blood School...........c   
Pupils attending Sacred Heart School...............cc   s  
Pupils attending Perpetual Help School...............c .  
Pupils attending Holy Rosarv School............ esse  
Pupils attending Immaculate Conception School................  Pupils attending Mater Dolorosa School............sses  
Pupils attending Mt. St. Vincent School........... es es  
Pupils attending Holy Family Institute..............    ees  
Pupils attending other private schools.,......cce es  
Total school population of the city September,  .........  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE V. ABSENTEES REPORTED.
as Or er re ay YS
Son rt mo]  ea oe eo -
   
Schools oa  of ig rl sl of e
 gi &| &| s
Slo All  is| ist  
|
St. Jerome ..........ce  
West St. .......c -+-|  
Holy Rosary ..........---|  
East Dwight St............]  
Perpetual Help ...........]   
Immaculate Conception ...|  
Nonotuck St. ...........-.  
Highland ..........ces  
Ewingville ......... .c :
Precious Blood ...........|  
Park St. ....... s|  
Hamilton St. .............|  
Sargeant St. ..............|   
Morgan ........ec |  
Sacred Heart ...........+-|  
Springdale ............ ---{ 
Joseph Metcalf ...........  
Elmwood ........ecc  
Ingleside ....... ec 
Vocational ...........   
Holyoke High ............  
Flm St. .... eccecce|  
Wm. Whiting ............]  
Mater Dolorosa ..........|  
Lawrence ............-- --|  
South Chestnut St........./  
Kirtland ..............   
West Holyoke ............
Mt. St. Vincent............
Holy Family Institute......
\ss sslaralase!  
Totals........... em oan aarian 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VI. PARENTS OR GUARDIANS NOTIFIED.
eoeo e/ is  
Slalalalala|lalalatia;
re rt re rm  rt we re A}
vo} Y| CO}  SS) a] S| gs
nNIOIAZIAlSIiglalel aia
St. Jerome .........e.e  
West St. .........-.+ -.-|  
Holy Rosary ...........-.] ra  
East Dwight St. ..........]|  
Perpetual Help ...........]  
Immaculate Conception....}|  
Nonotuck St. .............  
Highland .............  
Ewingville ............ 
Precious Blood ...........|   j|  
Park St. .......c -|  
Hamilton St. ............-]  
Sargeant St. ...... .......]  
Morgan ......... - -|  
Sacred Heart ............|  
Springdale ..........e. +-] 
Joseph Metcalf ...........  
Elmwood .......cc  
Ingleside ..........eces
Vocational ............   
Holyoke High ............  
Elm St. .............- ---]  
Wm. Whiting ............]  
Mater Dolorosa ..........!  
Lawrence ............+..++|  
South Chestnut St.........]  
Kirtland ...........  : 
. West Holyoke ............
Mt. St. Vincent............
Holy Family Institute.....

Totals.......... aoa aoe oe |
|
|
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE VII. ABSENT WITHOUT PERMISSION.
) S/S/ ele]
for) aofor] oO oO fo) oO for) -
aeeee}
a ri} rs ro wa)  S
valolzial Sialsiial 
|
St. Jerome ...........  
West St. .. Tt 
Holy Rosary ..........---|   
East Dwight St............/ 
Perpetual Help ...........  
Immaculate Conception ...  
Nonotuck St. ............
Highland ..............  
Ewingville ............. .
Precious Blood ........... 
Park St. ..........e ---]   :
Hamilton St. .............  
Sargeant St. ............-.]  
Morgan ........cs  
Sacred Heart ............. 
Springdale ...............-|  
Joseph Metcalf ...........  
Elmwood ........cc s
Ingleside ............e Vocational ...........  
Holyoke High ............ )
Elm St. .........c     
Wm. Whiting ............  
Mater Dolorosa .......... 
Lawrence .......-.-    
South Chestnut St.........
Kirtland ...........    
West Holyoke ............
Mt. St. Vincent...........
Holy Family Institute..... ;
Totals sesessesse   

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE VIII. TRUANTS AND TRUANCIES.
|  be &
 a]  )
a) "| |e] Ge 
Schools $)/  je) EF ov ist
(  -—O ac
BP) ge)  gs |g"  
Be  Ss  
St. Jerome .............-| {| 
West St. ....cscc s|  
Holy Rosary ..........+- 
East Dwight St...........|  
Perpetual Help ..........  
Immaculate Conception... 
Nonotuck St. ......-ge  
Highland .............. 
Ewingville ......... .
 Precious Blood .......... 
Park St. .......c     
Hamilton St. ............ 
Sargeant St. .........+..-|  
Morgan ......  se|  
Sacred Heart ............  ;
Springdale ..........ee 
Joseph Metcalf ..........  ];  
Elmwood .........c e;
Ingleside .........cc 
Vocational ........... 
Holyoke High ........... 
Elm St. ..........  -  
Wm. Whiting .........../ 
Mater Dolorosa ..........  
Lawrence .........sec  
South Chestnut St........  
Kirtland .............  
West Holyoke ........... |
Mt. St. Vincent..........
Holy Family Institute....
Totals. |  
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
TABLE IX. RETURNED TO SCHOOL FROM THE STREETS.
a[mil a) S/ ), 
alile gialalsl lala
Schools -| .] os]. :| -'  
+  ba bd  S| a| h| ea] es |
NBS ALS ESI el Sle
St. Jerome ............,  {/ ]/ ]/ 
West St. ..........- .-]  ]/  [|  
Holy Rosary ..........  
East Dwight St......../  [{[ /|  
Perpetual Help ........  
Immaculate Conception]  
Park St. ...........---|  
Hamilton St. .........  Jad  
Morgan ........cec   
Springdale ............]  
Totals. | |  
TABLE X. AGGREGATES.
o as |
Se  vs
es  oe re FI  Ons
o &e  ao  bo 
Bo eh Es 
ls me |e a) Sel *
| 
Sept.,  
Oct., 
Nov., 
Dec., 
Jan.,  
Feb.,  
Mar., 
Apr., 
May, 
June,   
Totals | |

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TABLE XI. EMPLOYMENT CERTIFICATES ISSUED.
a &§ p» &B FB
§ zAS Pz £E BBE PS
Boys.

' to  .....  to ..... ill .. to  .....   to ..... ve}

Totals......  
Girls.
  to  .....   to ..... q? .. to  ..... .. ..  to .....  
Totals......  
Grand total... .....             ects  esccse  
This table dates from September,  to September,  .
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS E. GALLAGHER,
THOMAS H. FINN,
Attendance Officers.
|
; |

ORGANIZATION—JANVARY,  
DAY SCHOOLS.
F  ous eo 
v to YE wo ie)
School Teachers cE ES ne
A \,*
So Le ALS
High:
Howard Conant, Prin. ...........| 
Arthur J. McDonald, Vice Prin...|  
Lillian W. Fay, Dean............]  
Mary Adele Allen................]  
Jeanette H. Baldwin..............  
A. Esther Barry ............. |
Alice C. Brown.................-|  
Russell C. Brown............+ ..+|  
John C. Carr............. -|  
Rufus W. Clement............... 
Jason O. Cook............... .-.|  
Helen B. Cronin.................]  
Margaret T. Delaney.............|  
Margaret E. Dixon...............|  
Jason T. Draper..............- .+|  
Clyde B. Edgeworth..............!  
Annie Louise Gilligan............]  
George D. Hearn.................]|  
A. Omer Hebert..............+ --|  
Rema J. Henderson.............. .
Clara M. Ingraham...............]|  
Mabel L. Judd...................|  
Edwin J. Keough...............--|  
Anna Marie Laporte.............}  
Eileen McCormick ...........  
Sarah H. McGrath...............|  
Howard Mitchell ................]  
Bertha Morgan ...........-e+ +|  
Murtach M. S. Moriarty..........}  
Charlotte A. Norris..............|  
Margaret M. Powers.............|  
Mary F. Rilev.........c  we   
Wilfred H. Ringer..............-|  
Madeline L. Slade...............-  
; Lena W. Slotnick..............  
Amelia M. Stapleton.............-]  
Harry D. Wilcox.............. .+-|  Ida A. St. Martin, Clerk..........|  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
 bo ‘S
|  SBS! See lose
School Teachers ae co  )o 
. hws hd  Ysa
 ti cam ais W
a QO
Vocational: |
William H. Whitney, Director....|  
Eric G. Johnson ...............-+|  
Edwin C. Knapp ..........-+.----|  
Alden T. Stubbs ...............--]  
William F. Grady ...............]  
Charles E. Dawson .......... ..-  
Paul S. Sheehan .................  
Robert A. Dowling ..............|  
Charles Asnden ............-...+| .
East Dwight St.:
Mary E. Hussey, Prin.............]  
Della V. Flynn ................V  
Claire E. O’Neill ..............  
Antoinette E. Charest..........III  
Abbe G. Sullivan .............-I 
Cora E. McKillop .............. 
Elm St.:
Mary E. Lawley, Prin............]  
Mary M. Doyle ...............VI  
Nora E. Doyle .................V| |]  
A. Belle Smith ................V  
Agnes G. O’Connor ........... V] 
Estelle M. Curley ............. V|  
E. Teresa MclIntee ...........IHI} 
Helen F. Greaney ............ III  
Carrie L. Alderman ...........II]  
Mary V. Herbert ............I-II|  
Emma M. Wilson ............-.- ]|  
Katherine S. Keough ........... 
Eva C. Greaney ...............  
Alice C. Geran ............Special  
Caroline E. Meacham.......Kgtn.  
Elizabeth C. Burke .........Kgtn.]  
Elmwood:
Annie L. Stansfield, Prin..........{.  
Lena I. Spamer ...............I V|   
Ruth L. Porterfield ........... V}   
Lilian M. Chapman ...........  
Emma B. Ingraham ...........II 
Katherine T. Chapin ..........III 
Edith M. Bartlett ..............II   
Elizabeth M. Foley ............II  
Margaret A. McHugh .........II   
Juha R. Sheehan ...............]  
Elizabeth A. Howard ........... 
Anna M. Kidnay ..............- 
Ida M. Ingraham ...........Kegtn.  
Jane R. Canavan ...........Kgtn.}|  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  t")  PE are ry) v
School Teachers FES| sfe |oee
A’  |"
a ie o
Ewingville: |
Mary A. Lynn, Prin............Il  
Helena A. Shine ................   
Hamilton St.: |
Jennie E. Scolley, Prin............] |
Katherine R. Warren .........VI  
Hannah V. O’Brien ...........VI| |  
Ellen A. Kirkpatrick ...........V|  
Grace G. Callahan .............V|  
Lillian M. Grant ..............  
Elizabeth M. Feeney .........-III}|   
Ellen M. Ahern .............-III|   
Helen H. Ramage .............II  
Alice G. Collopy ..............-II|  
Katherine C. Scolley ............  
Nora G. Linehan ..............- ]| 
Eleanor P. O’Grady ........Kgtn.  
Evelyn Curley ....... ....Kgtn.|  
Highland:
John A. Callahan, Prin............|  
Katherine G. Shine ...........I X| 
Mary T. O’Donnell ...........  
Ella L. Smith ..............-.- X|   
Catherine A. Callahan .......VIII}|  
Lucy B. Ramage ............ VIII  
Mary E. Dooley .............WIII]| 
Florence E. Redington .......VII  
Anna G. Kane ..............-WII|  
Jennie A. E. Curley ...........VI|  
Mary C. Shine .............-. -V  
M. Gertrude Moriarty .........IV!  
Elizabeth B. Donahue (Sub) III-IV|  
Sara W. Brennan ............-III} 
Katherine G. Sears ...........-I]  
Mary L. Herbert (Sub).....Asst. |
J. Reeve Lynn ..................- 
Grace W. Davis .........-.-+ !'
Mary H. Batchelder ........Kgtn.  
A. Charlotte Leavitt ........Kgtn.;  
Ingleside:
B. Francis Donahue, Prin.........
V-VI-VII  
Agnes J. Donoghue .......III-I  
Katherine C. Flood ..........I-Il  
Joseph Metcalf:
Michael J. Greaney, Prin..........|  
Mary D. Greeley ..........--+-IX|  
Mary V. Casey ......++-------L&|,  
M. Clara Cleveland ..........VIII|  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
 ebfl gs. [es
owe oo
School Teachers Ses ES :
 |
ee
Katherine R. Burke ......... VIII  
Alice M. Donoghue.......... VIII  
Elsie M. Wing .............--VII  
Alice H. Griffis .............. VII  
Eva C. Moynihan ..........-.-WII|   
Anna A. Dalton ..............VI  
Mary T. Canavan .............VI  
Alice A. Moss ........-   
Kp sephine Gorman ..........+..V .
rtland:
Katharine A. Mahoney, Prin......|  
Annie E. Gaynor ........VII-VIII   
Claire E. Nugent .............-VWI  
Margaret M. Bradley ...........V|   
Agnes G. Scully ............... V} 
Elizabeth J. Markham .........III}  
M. Georgie Eaton ............--II}  
Margaret G. Connor ............ ]|   
Frances Gilday .............Kgtn.|  
Leila Osborne ..............-Kgtn.|  
Lawrence:
J. Harry Kennedy, Prin...........|  
Mary E. McManus ............I X|  
Mary C. McTigue ............. IX  
Josephine McDonnell ..........  
Elizabeth A. Arnold .........VIII  
Janet L. Somers ............VIII|  
Mabel FE. Water- ............ VIII  
Emma G. Scolley ............ VII  
Rose G. O’Neill .............- VII  
Jennie B. Cassidy ............ VII  
Isabel M. Stokes ..............VI   
Delia A. Moriarty .............V  
Morgan:
William E. Judd, Prin............|  
Agnes M. Kelliher ............ X|  
Ellen C. Pratt .............-.- M}]  
Clara H. Buckley ........... VIII 
Mary A. Donoghue .......... VIII |
Lillian W. Murphy ..........VIII|  
Rose M. Donovan ............ VII  
Katherine G. Gilligan ......... VII  
Marie H. Eckart .............VII|  .
Bertha J. Moody ..........----W 
Agnes C. Dowdall ............-VI| | |
Margaret G. Haley .............V}  
Anne Halfpenny ....-........--V|  
Mabel C. Teahan .............. V| 

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
| ese] ge, lee
School Teachers Sas cs 
en se a
Agnes C. Flood .............-.- V|  
Harriet B. Grant .............. II  
Mary A. Donoghue ............II  
(On leave of absence)
Tosie E. Healy ...............-- I|  
Nonotuck St.:
Mrs. Sara E. Wilcoxen, Prin......|  
Theresa L. Coffey .............VI   .
Mary L. Teahan ............V-VI  
Emma M. Swindt .............-W|   
Rose P. Whitney .............- V| [| [|  
Mary A. Lynch ............III-IV  
Katherine E. Shea ...........-III]/  
Annie N. Miller ...............I 
Mrs. Katherine T. Morris........ 
Elizabeth M. Dalton ............I}  
Park St.:
Emily L. Curran, Prin.............]  
Anna F. Downing .............I V|  
Elia G. Prouty .............+- V|  
Katherine M. Kennelly ........I]I|  
Teresa L. Dowd ..............III  
Katherine M. McCarthy ........I]  
Margaret I. Corrigan ..........II  
Katherine G. Coughlin ..........]|  
Anna M. Warren ...........-  
Sargeant St.:
Katherine M. Holmes, Prin.......{  
Elizabeth M. Bigelow ..........V}  
M. Ethel McTearnen ..........  
Bernice E. Mahoney (Sub.)....HI  
Catherine C. Curran ............Il  
Clara L. O’Connor .............- 
Elizabeth Cowie ...............   
Rose M. Johnson ...........-.-- 
Catherine E. Paul ..........Kgtn.  
Flora H. Dougherty ........Kgtn.| |
South Chestnut St.:
Elizabeth M. O’Neill, Prin.........] |
Louise F. Heinritz ............VI 
Grace L. Heinritz ..............-V|  
Anna B. Fitzgerald ............TV]  
Katherine C. Shea .........III-I  
Mary C. Murphy ............. atl  
Ella M. Shea ................-- 
Theresa Conway ..........---+- l] 
Elizabeth A. Chapin ............. 
Katherine E. Scully .............I|  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
HH} wb vy :
om eke)
School Teachers he 
“  be Yay pia S@
Ww Pa Pa Aes) is .S
a Lo
|
Ada G. Ingraham ...........Kegtn.  
Helen V. Connor ...........Kgtn.  
Springdale:
Agnes C. Kelley, Prin.............|  
Mary E. Casey .........VII-VIII  
Annie F. Sheehan .............V 
Margaret E. Ryan ..............V  
Grace A. O’Neill .............-  
Rose G. Herlihy .............-III  
Teresa C. Mackey .............. l]  
Bride C. Herbert ............--- 
Elizabeth M. Shine .........Kgtn.|  
Alice M. Cleary ............Kgtn.  
West St.:
John J. Lynch, Prin...............{  
Mary L. Bowler .............-- X|  
Lillian E. Kelly .............VIII}  
Abbie L. Lynch .............. VII   
Mrs. Joanna R. McMahon.....VII  
| Catherine G. Nutley ...........VI}  
Ellen K. McCarthy ............VE  
Audry V. Delaney ......... ....-V|  
Margaret G. Riley .............V]| |]  
Ella M. Payne ............-..- V}   
Anna J. Moynihan .........III-IV  
Josie A. Moriarty ..........I-III   
Sarah E. Hayward .............I  
Laura G. Connor .............--  
Katherine E. Leary ............. }]  
Anna C. Falvey ........... pecial|  
Mary H. Power ...........-Kgtn.|  
Pearl S. Rand ..............Kgtn.}  
West Holyoke:
Matthew S. Herbert ......... -[X}   
William Whiting: |
Esther M. Greeley, Prin...........|  
Anna M. Casey ...........--- WII  
Septa F. Lynn ...............-V 
Ellen M. Doyle .............----V}  
Johanna V. Leahy ............-IV|  
Katherine A. O’Neill...........III]  
Mary K. Mahoney ............III} 
Eleanor E. Lyons ..............-  |]  
Ella I. Healy ..............----  
Katherine M. O’Donnell.......I-II  
Mrs. Katherine Dillon ...........I  
Mary C. Daly ..........ec  eel  
Kathryn U. Lynch ..........Kgtn.|  Grace A. Sullivan ...........Kegtn.  

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCIHIOOLS  
SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS.

School Hygiene: Salary
Dr. Walter F. Cobb, Director..................  
Dr. Harold E. Miner, School Physician..................  
Dr. Edward P. Hand, School Physician...............  
Dr. Honoria K. Shine, School Physician..............  
Daniel J. Kelly, High School..................  
Helen F. Thompson, High School................ 
Margaret F. McCaffery, High School....................  
Louis K. Appel, Grades.............cce     reces  

Manual Training:

Robert E. Hamill, Supervisor................c s  
Louis T. Lenderking, Jr..........         s  
Helen G. Burke... ..     cc         
E. Margaret McHugh..........        cence  

Household Arts:

Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins, Supervisor..................+.  
Rose C. Lynes ...       cc  tate  cnet cent tene  
Ruth Canavan ..... cc       crete   cette eet  

Drawing:

Mrs. Isabelle H. Ferry, Supervisor............-- -+.  
Mrs. Rose A. Dougherty........  ...        
Grace D. Lynn...   cc ce   een en   

Writing: |
Esther A. MacDonnell, Supervisor............ -. eesee+++  

Music:

Hugh Craig, Supervisor......... cc       c  
Margaret F. McCarthy. ....  ... ec cette      
Frank J. Schneidawind, Director of Orchestra, each rehhearsal wo...    cc        ees  
OFFICE.

Supt. of Schools Francis McSherry .............-...+. 

Sec. to Superintendent Mary J. Callahan ...................  

Clerks Agnes M. Cadieux ............... ..  

Frances L. Callahan .................  

Attendance Officers Thomas E. Gallagher ...............  

Thomas H. Finn ....................  
Schoolhouse Agent Edouard Cadieux ...................  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
EVENING SCHOOLS.
g  be og
aed &o.F  #§
School Teachers pe SES ie i
ic ae es /]  
| ea  be
| |
High: |
Patrick J. Garvey, Prin...........|   
Oliver H. Bourque Rites] |
Laurence F. Forward ............] |
Clyde B. Edgeworth .............] |
Rema J. Henderson .............  |
Mary E. Cleary .................]  
Katherine Gear ..........  | |
Jeanette H. Baldwin .............] |
Rosa Killigrew ............. ----{ |
Margaret Sullivan ...............  
Winifred Glasheen senna |
Russell C. Brown crre  e| |
Edward J. Scanlon .............. |
Edwin J. Keough ................]) |
Priscilla Marcoux ............ |
Mary L. Welch ............. |
A. Omer Hebert ................  
Robert E. Hamill ...............]  
Louis T. Lenderking ............  
Frank H. McTigue .............. |
Grace D. Lynn .............  
Edith LeDuke ............... |
Charlotte A. Norris .............  
Vocational:
William H. Whitney, Director....
Charles Aspden .........per term  
Edwin C. Knapp ...........  
Samuel Scott .......e    
Alden T. Stubbs ..............  
George Welsh ....... .. cec   
Eric G. Johnson ...........  
Charles E. Dawson ............  
Harry Bailey ............  ce    
Wi aam Wylie ............. 
Robert A. Dowling ......per term,  
Wilham F. Grady ............  
John F. Shea...........    
Byron H. Merrill ................ 
Thomas Batzel ..........    
Thomas Gibbons ..........  
Frank M. O’Neil .............  
Charles W. Reiser ............  
James Webb ..........c    
Stephen D. McKenna ............| ft

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
!  be  ‘oy
Ae Obs ve  
School Teachers »g  ie se
| |  &
  it --)  o
Paul S. Sheehan |
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Supervisor Practical Arts Classes. per
tOrM oo.  cence   veces s|  
Mrs. Charles E. Thunert ......... |
Alice Fenton ........c. s  
Mrs. Alice Davis ...........  
Mrs. Josephine Peabody .........  
Mrs. Albert Hatch ..............  
Mrs. Ellen A. O’Connell..........  
Bessie McGuines ...........+  
Mrs. Kate Grout ............  
Elizabeth Glennon ...............  
Mrs. Gina de Leon ............  
Mrs. Grace Benton ............+.  
Lawrence:
William E. Judd, Prin............  
Bertha J. Moody ............  
Lillian W. Murphy ..............  
Bernice Mahoney ..........-...+-  
Margaret G. Riley .............--  
Efe Hayton ..........cc s  
Lula McFaul ............... ..-  
Johanna V. Leahy ..............  
Anna M. Haley .................  
Abbe G. Sullivan ...............  
Mary C. Shea ...........   
Mrs. Mabel Howes .............  
Mrs. Elisabeth I. Perkins.........  
Morgan:
Michael J. Greaney, Prin.........  
Eva C. Moynihan ...............  
Pearl Scully ................ ---)  
Cora Lalonde  esettnrenescel  
Eleanor E. Lyons .............--|  
Margaret Bradley .............../  
Mary Hartnett stetsecs |  
Mary M. Gorman ...............'  
E. Teresa MclIntee sees  s|  
Anna Leary .............e +ee++!  
Dorothy Dunn .................-{  
Rose Bradley .............. e++-)  
Mary V. Herbert ...............!  
Mrs. Delia M. Cleary ...........'  
Ellen M. Coughlin P  ees]  
Agnes M. Cadieux ..............  Laura Morin ....................]  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
dw ose a:  g
& @
School Teachers He oe oe
o bs tel b
West St.: |
Arthur J. McDonald, Prin........  
Anna L. Cleary .............-.--|  
Bridget C. Shea v+s rrs s|  
Marion Potvin .......... cecae  
Alice Gillis ......  c.    eens .
Mary L. Herbert ................  
M. Agnes Moynihan ............ |
Norma Dreicorn ............+  |
Marion Bradshaw ...........-.+- |
Anna Buckley .............. |
Isabelle O’Connor ............  
Katherine Daly ................. |
William Whiting:
‘ J. Harry Kennedy, Prin  ee-|  
Anna M. Casey ........ s  
Mary J. O’Connell ..............|  
Mrs. Mary Zeilinski .............|  
Mary G. Conway presses  
Ella Norris .......   
Katherine C. Sullivan ...........  
Mrs. Katherine Dillon ...........  
Margaret G. Connor ............  
Helen Clifford ...........      
Julia Collopy .......... .cc   
Agnes Kidnay .............e  
, |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
JANITORS AND MATRONS.

Schools Salaries
High Fred P. Brown ..........ecc 
Edward Rourke .............. s  
Edouard Samson .........  s  
Daniel J. Kennedy ..................  
John Kennedy ...............     
Mrs. Mary Moynahan, Matron........  
Gymnasium William J. Morrison ............- :-  

Mrs. Mary Shea, Matron.............
East Dwight St. William A. Moore ........cecc   
Elm St. Liwellyn J. Lannon ..............  
Elmwood William E. Kennedy ................  
Ewinegville Bartholomew F. Griffin ..............  
Hamilton St. Frank J. Schirch ............ ec  
Highland John Ahern .........       

Ingleside Michael J. Moriarty ...........-.  

Joseph Metcalf Edward W. Bresnahan ..............  
Kirtland Jeremiah F. Leary ............-..  
Lawrence John M. Hanley ...........--      
Morgan Charles R. Moreau ............++ +-.  
Nonotuck St. Thomas O’Connor ...........-  
Park St. James Walsh ........-...  were eens  
Sargeant St. Cornelius J. Donoghue .............-.  
So. Chestnut St. James Gilhooley ...........- +- e-  
Springdale Joseph A. Gadbois ...........ee sees  
West St. John J. Moriarty ..............- +---  
West Holyoke Annie Keyes .....-..c rcs  
Wm. Whiting Patrick F. Lynch ...........  
Spare Venatius J. Fleming ............-.  
James Gage ......ec   ete   
Office Mrs. Mary Rogers .......-- s  
Vocational James F. Walsh .......--   renee  

PART IX.
AUTHORIZED TEXT BOOKS
The following lists comprise all text books adopted by
the School Board for use in the various schools and on the
list January |
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
GRADE I.
Aldine Primer (basal)
Aldine First Reader and Manual (basal)
Wide Awake Primer
Beginners’ Primer
Child Life Primer
Child Life First Reader —
Riverside Primer |
Riverside First Reader
Baldwin and Bender First Reader
New Edueation Book One
Reynard the Fox
Durell’s Arithmetic Book One, Part I, with notes for teachers. (For teacher’s use only.)
GRADE II.
Aldine Second Reader (basal)
Wide Awake First Reader (read first)
Free-Treadwell First Reader —
Baldwin and Bender Second Reader |
Child Life Second Reader
Wide Awake Second Reader
Carroll’s Around the World Book One
New Education Book Two
Smith’s Eskimo Stories
Peter and Polly Stories
Riverside Second Reader
Child Lore |
|

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Boy Blue and His Friends
Durell’s Arithmetic Book One, Part I, with notes for teacher
(For teacher’s use only.)
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Two
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book II
GRADE III.
Aldine Third Reader (basal)
Wide Awake Third Reader
Free-Treadwell Second Reader
Baldwin and Bender Third Reader
Riverside Third Reader ,
New Education Book Three
Williams’ Choice Literature (new edition)
Baldwin’s Robinson Crusoe |
Shaw’s Big People and Little People of Other Lands
Pratt’s Stories of Colonial Children .
Rafter’s City and Town
Wilson’s History Reader for Elementary Schools
Merry Animal Tales
Merrill Speller Book One
Aldine First Language Book and Manual
Durell’s Arithmetic Book One, Part II
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetie Book Three
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book III
American Musie Reader I
GRADE IV.
Aldine Fourth Reader (basal)
Wide Awake Fourth Reader
Free-Treadwell Third Reader
Baldwin and Bender Fourth Reader
Riverside Fourth Reader
New Education Book Four
Williams’ Choice Literature (new edition)
Eggleston’s Stories of Great Americans
Baldwin’s Old Greek Stories
Primer of Hygiene, Ritchie-Caldwell
Shaggy Coat
Beminster’s Indian Legends (and all ‘‘The Every Child Series’’)
Legends of the Red Children
Carroll’s Around the World Book Two

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
; Frye’s Brooks and Brook Basins f
Tappan’s American Hero Stories
Webster’s Shorter School Dictionary
Merrill Speller Book One
Aldine First Language Book and Manual
Durell’s Arithmetic Book One, Part II !
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Four
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography First Book, Part I
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book IV
American Musie Reader II |
GRADE V. |
Aldine Fifth Reader (basal)
Riverside Fifth Reader
Free-Treadwell Fourth Reader
Baldwin and Bender Fifth Reader
Williams’ Choice Literature (new edition)
Hawthorne’s Wonder Book
Longfellow’s Hiawatha
Gordy’s American Leaders and Heroes
Builders of Our Country Books One and Two
Carpenter’s North America |
Primer of Hygiene, Ritchie-Caldwell ;
Good Health—Guelick Series
Blue Bird
Heidi
Swiss Family Robinson
Webster’s Shorter School Dictionary
Merrill Speller Book One
Metealf and Rafter Language Series Book One
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Two
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Five
King’s Elementary Geography
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book V
American Music Reader IT
GRADE VI.
Aldine Sixth Reader (basal)
Riverside Sixth Reader
Free-Treadwell Fifth Reader .
Baldwin and Bender Sixth Reader |
Williams’ Choice Literature (new edition)
Hawthorne’s Tanglewood Tales |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Longfellow’s Miles Standish |
Tappan’s Old World Hero Stories
‘Carpenter’s South America
Primer of Sanitation, Ritchie
Emergencies—Guelick Series
Whittier’s Snow Bound
Birds’ Christmas Carol
The Crofton Boys )
Anne of Green Gables
Webster’s Shorter School Dictionary
Merrill Speller Book Two
Metealf and Rafter Language Series Book One
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Two
Nichols New Graded Lessons in Arithmetic Book Six
Tarr-MeMurry New Geography Second Book Part One
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VI
American Music Reader III
Bourne and Benton Introductory American [History
GRADE VII.
Aldine Seventh Reader (basal)
Riverside Seventh Reader
Baldwin and Bender Seventh Reader
Williams’ Choice Literature (new edition)
Guerber’s Story of the English
Irving’s Sketch Book
Lamb’s Tales of Shakespeare
Franklin’s Autobiography
Longfellow’s Evangeline
Primer of Physiology, Ritchie
Town and City, Guelick Series
‘Carpenter’s Europe
Carpenter’s Africa |
Young Puritans of Old Hadley
Webster’s Shorter School Dictionary
Merrill Speller Book Two
Metcalf and Rafter Language Series Book Two
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Three
Tarr-MceMurry New Geography Second Book, Part Two
Bourne and Benton History of United States
Prang’s Text Books of Art Education Book VII
American Music Reader III

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
| GRADE VIII.
Aldine Seventh Reader (basal)
Riverside Eighth Reader
Baldwm and Bender Eighth Reader
Williams’ Choice Literature (new. edition)
Hawthorne’s Legends of New England
: Hawthorne’s Tales of the White Hills
Guerber’s Story of the Greeks !
Human Physiology, Ritchie
The Body at Work, Guelick Series
Rebecea of Sunnybrook Farm !
Carpenter’s Asia
Carpenter’s Australia
Webster’s Shorter School Dictionary
Merrill Speller Book Two
Metcalf and Rafter Language Series Book Two |
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Three !
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Bourne and Benton History of United States
Higginson’s Young Folks History of the United States
(  copies)

Seudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies) ,
Fiske’s United States History  copies) ;
Montgomery's Leading Facts in English History  copies)
American Musie Reader IV
Natural Advaneed Music Reader

GRADE IX. :
Williams’ Choice Literature (new edition)
Scott’s Ivanhoe
Seott’s Lady of the Lake
Longfellow’s Tales of Wayside Inn
Bryant’s Selections
Guerber’s Story of the Romans
Julius Caesar
Merchant of Venice
Human Physiology, Ritchie
Control of Body and Mind, Guelick Series
(A long story to be selected)
The Gold Bug and Other Tales, Poe
Webster’s Elementary School Dictionary
Merrill Speller Book Two.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Metcalf and Rafter Language Series Book Two
Lewis’ First Manual of Composition  copies)
Durell’s Arithmetic Book Three
Bradbury and Emery’s Algebra for Beginners |
Wentworth’s First Steps in Algebra
Morton’s Advanced Geography
Adams’ Elementary Commercial Geography
Keller and Bishop’s Commercial and Industrial Geography
Bourne and Benton History of United States
Woodburn and Moran Elementary American History and
Government
. Higginson’s United States History  copies)
Seudder’s United States History  copies)
Thomas’ United States History  copies)
Fiske’s United States History  copies)
Montgomery’s Leading Facts in English History  copies)
American Music Reader IV
Natural Advanced Musie Reader
BOOKS FOR TEACHER’S DESK.
Perry’s Bible Manual
Ireland’s Story, Johnson
Blaisdell’s Physiology
Dunglinson’s Physiology
Dubb’s Arithmetical Problems
Joy’s Arithmetic Without Pencil
BOOKS NOT ASSIGNED TO GRADES.
Union Series Physiology, Books One, Two and Three
HIGH SCHOOL.
ENGLISH.
Author Title
Addison Sir Roger de Coverly Papers
Arnold Sohrab and Rustum
Bacon Essays Civil and Moral
Brook English Composition, Vol. I,
Enlarged
Brook English Composition, Vol. II
Browning Poems (Selections)
Bryant Selections
Buehler Modern English Grammar

|
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Burke Essay on Conciliation with the
American Colonies
Burke Essay on American Taxation
Burns Poems
Byron Selections (Arnold)
Carlyle Essay on Burns
Chaucer Prologue and Knight’s Tale
Coleridge The Ancient Mariner |
Cooper The Last of the Mohicans |
DeQuincey Flight of Tartar Tribe .
Dickens Tale of Two Cities |
Dowden Life of Shakespeare (Primer)
Dryden Alexander’s Feast
Dryden Palamon and Arcite
Eliot Silas Marner
Emerson Fortune of the Republic
Emerson Essay on Culture, Books, ete.
Gayley Classic Myths
Goldsmith Deserted Village and Traveller
Goldsmith Viear of Wakefield
Gray Poems (Selections)
Guerber Myths of Gre and Rome
Guerber Myths of Northern Lands
Halleck History of English Literature /
' Hawthorne House of the Seven Gables |
Hawthorne Tales of the White Hills and
Sketches
Hawthorne Twice Told Tales
Irving Sketch Book
Trving The Alhambra
Irving Life of Goldsmith
Irving Tales of Traveller
Lineoln Gettysburg Sph
Juineoln Selections
Lowell Vision of Sir Launfal ,
Lowell Essay on Lineoln and Lin
eoln’s Gettysburg Sph
and Other Papers
Macauley Essay on Addison
Macauley Life of Johnson
Milton Lyries
Milton Paradise Lost (Books and IT)
Palgrave Golden Treasury (Books IT
and IIT)

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  

Palmer Self Cultivation in English

Plutarch Lives (Selections)

Pope Rape of the Lock

Pope Translation of the Iliad

Scott Ivanhoe

Scott Lay of the Last Minstrel |

Shakespeare As You Like It

Shakespeare Hamlet

Shakespeare Julius Caesar

Shakespeare King John

Shakespeare Macbeth (Gateway and Rolfe
Editions)

Shakespeare Merchant of Venice

Shakespeare Midsummer Night’s Dream

Shakespeare Twelfth Night

Shakespeare Sonnets

Shakespeare Antony and Cleopatra

Shakespeare Henry V

Shakespeare King Lear

Shakespeare Much Ado About Nothing

Shakespeare Othello

Shakespeare Romeo and Juliet

Shakespeare The Tempest

Shakespeare Two Noble Kinsmen

Shakespeare Winter’s Tale

Southey Life of Nelson

Spenser Faerie Queen I

Spenser Faerie Queen IT

Stevenson Inland Voyage and Travels
with Donkey

Stevenson Treasure Island

Tennyson TIdylls of the King

Tennyson Poems

Thoreau Succession of the Forest Trees

Warner Hunting of the Deer

Washington Farewell Address

Webster First Bunker Hill Oration

Woolley Hand Book of Composition

Wordsworth Poems (Arnold Selections)

ELOCUTION.

Emerson Evolution of Expression, Vol.

I, II, III

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ,
}
FRENCH.
About Le Roi des Montagnes
Daudet Tartarin de Tarascon ,
Dumas La Tulipe Noire
Francois Advanced French Prose Composition
Francois and Giroud Snnple French
Fraser and Squair Shorter French Course
Fraser and Squair Complete French Grammar
Halévy L’Abbe Constantin
Koren French Prose Composition ,
Labiche and Martin La Poudre aux Yeux
Labiche and Martin Le Voyage de M. Perrichon
Lamartine Jeanne d’Are
Loti Pecheurs D’Islande
Merimée Colomba
Molhieére Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme
Pailleron Le Monde ou l’on S’Ennuie
Sandeau Mule. de la Seigliére
Sareey Le Siege de Paris
Super French Reader
Super Mémoires d’un Collégien
GERMAN. /
Bacon Im Vaterland :
Bacon Vorwarts
Bagster-Collins First Book in German
Baumbach Die Nonna
Baumbach Der Schwiegersohn
Benedix Der Prozess
Freytag Ine Journalisten
Goethe Hermann und Dorothea
Golhdes and Buschek Sprach-und Lesebueh
Guerber Marehen und Erzihlungen,
Parts I, II t
Heath German Dictionary |
Heine Die Harzreise
Hauff Das Kalte Herz
ITevse L’Arrabbiata !
Joyvnes-Meissner German Grammar ;
Lessing Minna von Barnhelm
Manley and Allen -Four German Comedies
Moser Der Bibhothekar
!
|
I

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS  
Pope Writing and Speaking German
‘ Riehl Der Fluch de Schoenheit
Schiller Der Dreissigjahrige Krieg
Schiller Wilhelm Tell
Storm Immensee
Suderman Der Kalzensteg
Von Hillern Hoher als die Kirche
Wildenbruch Das Edle Blut
SPANISH.
Alareon El Capitan Veneno
Bransby Spanish Reader
DeVitis Spanish Grammar
LATIN AND GREEK.
Allen and Greenough New Latin Grammar
Barss Cornelius Nepos
Barss Latin Composition
Barss Writing Latin, Books One and
Two, Revised Edition
Bennett Cicero de Senectute and de
Amicitia
Bennett New Latin Grammar
Bennett New Latin Composition
Collar and Daniel Greek Composition
*D’Ooge Cicero
D’Ooge Viri Romae
*Fairclough-Brown Virgil’s Aeneid
Goodwin Greck Grammar
Goodwin and White Zenophon’s Anabasis
Heberman Sallust’s Catiline
* Johnson-Sanford Caesar Gallic War
Keep Use of Moods and Tenses
Kirtland Fabulae Faciles |
Perrin and Seymour Homer’s Odyssev
Pearson Latin Composition
Pearson Greek Composition
Seymour Thiad
Smith Latin Lessons
Walker Caesar’s Civil War, Text Edition
White First Greek Book
 *Students’ Series of Latin Classics, B. Hf. Sanborn Co.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
. HISTORY.

Ashley American Government

Cheyney Short History of England 

Johnson and Spencer Treland’s Story

, McLaughlin History of the American Nation, New Edition

Myers Ancient History, Revised

West Ancient History

West Ancient World

West Modern History

MATHEMATICS.

Hall and Knight School and College Algebra

Hawkes Higher Algebra (supplemen- |
tary )

Richardson Solid Geometry

Sanders Elements of Plane and Solid
Geometry

Stone- Millis Elementary Algebra, First
Course

Wentworth Elementary Algebra

Wentworth Revised Plane Geometry

Wentworth Revised Plane and Solid Geometry

Wentworth Second Revision Plane and
Spherical Trigonometry. |

Wentworth and Hill Five Place Logarithmic and
Trigonometric Tables

SCIENCE.
Ary, Bryant, Clendenin,
Morrey Physiography

Atkinson Botany for Schools

Black and Davis Practical Physics

Blanchard and Wade Foundations of Chemistry

Clark General Science

Sarr and Von Engeln Laboratory Manual for Physieal Geography

Williams and Whitman Laboratory Exercises in General Chemistry


