REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
May, ...      
June,  ...      
July,  Joe  
August,  ...        
September,  ............  ... -+.  
October,  .......  ........... .......  
November,  ..................................  
AGES.
Under years...........     ees  and under years....................- +- ..-. and under years... .......  eevee ees and under years... ...  ...      es  and under years.....  ...     ees and under years..........       and under years....  ...  ees and years... 
|  
NATIVITY OF PERSONS ARRESTED.
America...  cae  ses  
AUStrla.. ete     
Belgium. .......      nes  
Canada...  ... cette cence  s.  
England........  ...   te eens  
Finland...  ... nees l
France.  ...   teen nes  
Germany... 
Greese. tenet eens  
Hungary...  ... nee eens  
Treland...  ...    eens 
Italy...   nen tees  
Nova Scotia.  ...  cence eens  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
Portugal... ts  
Poland...  ... ne   eae  
Russia...    ees 
Scotland...   eens  
Spain. ete 
Sweden...  ...     
Wales...  ... ce  eae  
THE FOLLOWING IS THE RECORD OF THE SIGNAL
SYSTEM.
Duty calls from patrolmen.. .....................  
Wagon calls, days........ ....    sees §— 
Wagon calls, nights...........  ... .. .ee ee.  
Number of trips to Hampden County jail.............  
Miles run...  ...     
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES PERFORMED BY POLICE.
Number of children found and restored to parents.....  
Meals furnished prisoners....................... ...  
Number of buildings found open and unsecured........  
Number of dead bodies found...................  ...  
Number of fire alarms given.................  
Number of fires extinguished without alarms..........  
Number of defective fire alarm boxes reported.........  
Number of sick and injured persons assisted..........  
Number of stray teams taken up....................  
Number of street lights reported not lighted..........  
Number of arrests for other cities............... .-..  
Number of warrants for liquor served. ...............  
Number of safe doors found open....................  
Number of dogs shot.........  ...     
Number of defective sidewalks reported..............  
Number of defective catch basins reported............  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
Number of insane persons cared for..................  
Number of accidents reported.................. .-.  
Number of automobile accidents reported.............  
Number of notices served....................-......  

REPORT OF THE FEMALE DEPARTMENT.
Number of women arrested......................... Ill
Number of women detained....................-  
Number of insane persons cared for..................  

|  
OFFENSES WITH WHICH THEY WERE CHARGED.
Concealing the death of illegitimate child.............  
Concealing mortgaged property.................  
Drunkenness... ....... ..   teens  
Formication.  ...   be eens ]
Keeping gaming apparatus...............  ...  
, Keeping lying-in hospital without license............  
Larceny...  ... eens  
Lewd and lacivious cohabitation......................  
Neglected child... ......    .  
Stubbornness....   
Sureties of the peace...     
Vagrancev..  ...  )
 
DISPOSITION OF CASES.

Appealed..  ... nee  
Committed to the House of Correction........ ........ Il

Committed to the House of Correction for non-payment

Of fine...  ... tenes  
Committed to the Woman’s Reformatory.............  
Committed to the Industrial School for Girls..........  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
Committed to the State Board of Charity............  
Discharged...  ...   
Fined and paid...:..........     ees 
Probated and discharged...... .....  ...    
Placed on file...  ... ce    
Released...  ...nee  
In looking over the records for the past ten years find the
' routine work in this department does not vary much from year
to year. Drunkenness always claims the greater number,
however, there is some encouragement in the fact that the number of women arrested this year is much smaller than last year.
These women are with few exceptions poorly clad and believe if the charitably disposed persons could realize the condition of those women they would willingly assist the Matron

by giving her donations of clothing.

I am very grateful to the ladies of the Needle Work Guild,
for their generous gift of new garments.

I wish to thank the Marshal and his assistants for their
many courtesies shown me and for their kind assistance and
co-operation in my work.

Respectfull submitted,
MARY T. SULLIVAN,
Matron.
Thomas J. Lynch, City Marshal.

Sir: herewith submit to you the annual report of arrests,
cases investigated, property recovered, etc., by the Detective
Bureau during the year  .

Abortion.  ... cette eens  
Adultery...    cette en nes  
AISON.  ce netnents  

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
Abuse female child............... ..     
Assault and battery................    
Assault with dangerous weapon....................  
Bastardy..  ...  ce   
Bond surrendered..............     nee  
Breaking and entering..............  eae  
Cruelty to animals...........      
Concealing birth of child... ..... .... ........ ...  
Clandestine marriage.............        
Drunkenness......  ... coe ccs  
Escaped prisoner...  ... tees  
Failing to attend school............. ...   ue  
Formication......   tenes  
Indecent exposure...  ...      
Larceny. .....  ...       reese.  
Larceny from building.................... 
Lewd and Lacivious cohabitation....................  
Non-support..  ... t eens  
Neglected child... ....  ... ...  Feces  
Practicing medicine without license..................  
Receiving stolen goods...  ...  ...      eens  
Stubbornness...........     es  
Suspended sentence...........  ce  ees  
Sureties of the peace...  ...  ees  
Unlawfully harboring child.......................  
Unlawfully taking an automobile....................  
Vagrancy...  ... ce  ete  
Violation Automobile law............... eae  
Violation city ordinance.............   nee  
Number of arrests for other cities...............  
Number of cases investigated.......................  
Number of photographs taken.................. 
Number of finger prints taken...................  

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

Number of circulars filed...........................  
Number of bill posters approved.....................  
Number of bill posters not approved.................  
Number of Bertillion measurements taken......... ..  
Number of boys makng restitution not arrested ......  
Number of girls making restitution not arrested.......  
Number of men making restitution not arrested... ...  

Amount of money received from boys making restitution not arrested.................  

Amount of money received from girls making restitution not arrested...  ...  ce   

Amount of money received from men making restitution not arrested. .............. -.  
Amount of money reported stolen................  
Amount of money recovered........... ........  
Amount of property reported stolen.......... ...  
Amount of property reported recovered....... ...  
Amount of property recovered for other cities.....  

| Respectfully submitted,
PETER A. CULLEN,
Captain of Detectives.
FINANCIAL REPORT.
Appropriation............  ... . + ++ 
Additional appropriation ...............-..  
Receipts for clubs...... ....  
$ 
EXPENDITURES.

Pay roll.......  fe    
Miscellaneous expenses ............ ... -.  
! 

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
Receipts from fines in Police Court, Hampden
County, and all other sources, turned over to
general fund.............   
In compliance with provision of the charter, respectfully recommend an appropriation for the ensuing year of
$ This does not provide for any increase in salaries
or addition to the department.
 CHANGES IN THE DEPARTMENT.
John J. Sullivan, appointed patrolman, December .
Joseph A. Champagne, appointed patrolman, May .
Mary T. Sullivan, appointed matron, July  .
PLACED ON PENSION ROLL.
Mrs. Kate Moynahan, appointed Matron, April placed
on pension roll July .

 REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
, a
IN MEMORIAM.
Sergeant ,
GEORGE L. DICKINSON
APPOINTED FEBRUARY .
DIED MAY .

SS

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
POLICE SIGNAL SYSTEM.

After assuming the duties of Marshal, in January of this
year found that the Police Signal System which was installed
in July,  by the Star Electric Company, was giving very
unsatisfactory results. Many of the calls did not register
properly on the tape, the office could not communicate with
the officers on the street and at times whole circuits were out
of order thereby compelling the officers to use private telephones
to get in touch with the office. The macter was called to the
attention to the Board of Public Works and an expert was sent
to this city by the Star Electric Company to put the system
in working condition. After working on the system for some
time with the assistance of Supt. Moynahan, of the fire department and Mr. Marra, and replacing the first register with a
new one he pronounced the system O. K. and departed. Very
soon after his departure the old trouble appeared and has continued throughout the entire year. must say the system in
its present condition is unreliable and unsatisfactory. There
should be no question about the proper working of the system
as the lives of our citizens and the protection of their property
depend upon it.

I would therefore recommend that permanent repairs be
made on this system or system installed which can be depended upon.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

I wish to renew the recommendation of the past two years
and ask that the department be increased by the addition of |
ten patrolmen. We have at the present time and have had for
the past two years six Reserve Officers working steady, and the
addition of ten men to the force would add only thirty-five
hundred dollars to the present cost of running the department.
Complaints are continually received from the Highlands,
Elmwood and Springdale sections, and it is impossible for the
patrolmen to properly patrol them because of the large territory they have to cover; there is also urgent demand that

  REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.
traffic officers be placed on the busy corners of the city and I
think it should be done at once as some of the corners are becoming dangerous and an officer should be stationed on them
to direct traffic. This cannot be done with the force available
at the present time.

OUTLAYING DISTRICTS.

The post on the Highlands including Highland Park and
upper Northampton Street, also in Elmwood and lower Northampton road are so large in area that it is impossible either
during the day or night for an officer to properly cover them.
Complaints are received at theoffice and after the officers have
been notified itoftentakes from one-half to three-fourths of an
hour to get to the source of complaint. In order to obviate
these conditions, would recommend that two Ford or other
inexpensive make of automobiles be purchased and placed in
commission in those districts, to be used sixteen hours each
day or from a.m. to p.m. In my opinion those machines
would add very much to the efficiency of the department.
They would be used in preventing the ever increasing menace
to life by reckless automobile drivers, also great help in the
capture of automobile thieves as well as the prevention of
same, this addition could be made with very little expense
considering the benefits to be derived therefrom, as it would
obviate the necessity of buying anew motor-cycle to replace the
present one which is in very bad condition and which would
cost almost as much to replace as an automobile.

DEPARTMENT CLERK.

The police department is the only department in the city
that is without the service of clerk. The vast amount of
clerical work is done by the House Officers, Inspectors and Assistant Marshal. believe their energy should be exerted in
their police duties and not as clerks. would strongly recommend that male clerk be added to the department, one who
is stenographer preferred.

REPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.  
AUTOMOBILE.

In the year   was spent for automobile hire
and repairs. In the cost for the same purpose was Almost every day something occurs which makes it
almost imperative that an automobile be hired to look up cases.
This has not been done because of the great cost incurred and
the efficiency of the department has suffered thereby. It
can be seen by the above figures that the department is spending each year great deal more money for automobile hire
than it would spend if it purchased machine for use at all
times.

I would therefore recommend that five passenger automobile be purchased as soon as convenient for the use of the
department.

Each year presents new problems and more work for the
department in the enforcement of the Automobile Laws, accidents occur almost every day which have to be looked up and
investigated, and this work alone takes most all the time of
one of our Inspectors. The work of the inspector having
charge of the Bertillion System is also increasing and as the
work must be done in the office, think it would be wise and
would recommend that the looking up of all automobile cases
be added to the duties of the bertillion officer and new Inspector be added to the department to take his place on the
Street.

CONCLUSION.

In conclusion, beg to express my appreciation of the many

courtesies extended by His Honor the Mayor, the Judge and

Clerk of the Police Court, and the members of this department
during the year, and to thank them for the considerate attention given to matters pertaining to this department, and for

the assistance which they have rendered.

Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS J. LYNCH,
City Marshal.

Report of Board of Assessors
To the Honorable, the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen:
Gentlemen: The Board of Assessors respectfully submit
the following report for the vear  .
eS
IN MEMORIAM
Jeremiah J. Keane, member of this Board since February
Ist,  died May  st,  In his death this Board lost
a man with mind trained bv long experience to particular'v
well fit him for the performance of the duties of his office and one
whose every action was guided by the thought of being just.
In his death this city lost one of its very best citizens.
ee
Appropriation... ......  bee 
EXPENDITURES. ;
Assessors’ salaries... ............ 
Assistant assessor’s salary o.  
Clerks......... ... .; Lo  
Printing street lists, etc.  
Books, stationery, etc. ..... ...  
Traveling expenses, Bostoa an‘
Springheld ..  ...  
Assistants taking polls. ...  
Advertising. ...... Co,  
Postage...... oe,  
Team hire........ ...  ...  
Street cartravel..  ...  
Card index.......  ...  ...  
Miscellanecous.... ... 
a 

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  
AMOUNT RAISED BY TAXATION AND PURPOSE FOR
WHICH SAME IS RAISED.
City of Holyoke’s portion of state tax of
$ ............. ....  
State Highway tax.... ..........-. 
City of Holyokes’ portion of county tax of
$ ........... .......  
City appropriation to be raised by taxation... 
Total amount ordered raised............  
Overlay on above amount................... .€ 
Total amount raised by taxation for akove
named requirements................... 
In addition to above amounts we assess upon
bank stock of local National Banks not owned by residents of the city of Holyoke, tax
which is collected by the Collector of Taxes
and paid to the State Treasurer amounting
. TOL      
Making the total amount of the Collector of
Taxes warrant ......... ................ 
TABLE SHOWING POLLS AND PROPERTY UPON
WHICH TAX IS LEVIED WITH VALUATION.
Valuation Tax
Real estate.................  
Personal estate not including
bank stock................ 
Stock in local National Banks
owned by residents of Holyoke...............  
Polls, at  each....  
Total..................  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
In addition to above items assessment is made and taxes
assessed on stock :n local National Banks owned by nonresidents and the tax collected is paid to the State TreasUrer.. Fok 
$ . 
THE VALUATION OF REAL ESTATE IS DIVIDED AS
FOLLOWS:
Value of land........... ... 
Value of buildings... ....... 
Total value of real estate  
The increase in valuation over is as follows:
Personal estate..............  
Real estate.................  
Total increase.............———-————  

The tax rate was fixed at  per thousand of the valuation on all property subject to taxation. As shown by a
foregoing table the total valuation upon which taxes were assessed for meeting the appropriations made by the Mayor
and Board of Aldermen, the county and state tax and overlaying was  ,

Total amount of taxes assessed for the year for state
county and city purposes, not including non-resident bank
tax:

General tax levy made by the Assessors as of

April ...... .................. 
Additional assessment made on polls at

$  each... 
Additional assessments on property made De| cember  on  .........  
Commutation tax assessed to Hol. St. Ry. Co.  
$  

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  
ABATEMENTS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR END- .
ING NOVEMBER .
On tax levy of  ....... ...... ... 
On tax levy of  ....   .  
On tax levy of  ...........  ... 
On tax levy of  ....  ...  ,  
On tax levy of  .... ... ...  
On tax levy of  .... ... .....  
On tax levy of  ...... ... ... ....  
On tax levy of  ......  Joe. ee.  
On tax levy of  ...... ....  
, 
PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.
Houses of religious worship................. 
Benevolent and charitable societies..........  
Literary societies..........   
Temperance societies.............. 
Of soldiers and sailors and wives and widows of
soldiers and sailors who served in the War
of Rebellion....... ...  
Total value of exempted property........ 
STATISTICS.
Number of property polls...  ...          
Number of single polls... ...................  
Number of supplementary polls.................  
Number of property owners.................-  
Number of horses...............     
Number of cows........ ...   
Number of neat cattle other than cows... ......  
Number of swine........ ...  
Number of fow! .....  Joe 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
TAX RATE PER THOUSAND DIVIDED.
State, per thousand.....  ...  ... ce   
County, per thousand...... ............. ..... 
CY. een  
$  .
VALUATION, INCLUDING OMITTED ASSESSMENTS
AND TAX RATE.
 Real Estate....  
Personal estate..  
————-—. Realestate......  
Personal estate...  
———— Realestate......  
Personal estate...  
————-— Realestate......  
Personal estate...  
————— Realestate... ..  
Personal estate....  
—————— Realestate... ..  
Personal estate...  
———.——-— Realestate... ..  
| Personal estate...  
——————— Realestate... ...  
Personal estate...  
——————— Realestate... ..  
Personal estate...  
—————— 

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  Realestate... ..  
Personal estate..  
| —————— Real estate.  
Personal estate ..  
——————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
————. Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
—————- Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
-—————— .
 Real estate......  
Personal estate... —————  ,
 Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
—————— Realestate. ....  
Personal estate...  
—-—— —-- Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
——————— Real estate......  
Personal estate....  
—-—— —— Realestate......  
Personal estate...  
—-———— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
-—- ————— 

  REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.
 Realestate......  
Personal estate...  
————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
—————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
———— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
—————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
) ——— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
————  Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
————— Real estate......  
. Personal estate...  
———  Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
————— Real estate...... —
Personal estate... |
———— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
—————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
————— 

REPORT OF BOARD OF ASSESSORS.  Real estate......  
Personal estate... |
————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
——————  |
 Realestate......  
Personal estate...  
————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
————— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
————— Real estate......  
Personal estate..  
———— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
———— Realestate......  
Personal estate...  
————— 
.  Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
| ——— —— Real estate......  
Personal estate...  
——————— 
Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH J. KELLY,
WILLIAM G. BEAUDRO,
MICHAEL J. GRADY,
Board of Assessors.
\ :

ANNUAL REPORT
OF |
Holyoke Playground Commisson .
 
To the Honorable the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City
of Holyoke, Mass.
Gentlemen:—

The detailed report of the activities of the “Holyoke Nlunicipal Playgrounds”’ during the past vear presented by Supervisor P. H. Kelly and herewith attached leaves little to be said.
The past vear was indeed notable one in the history of the
Playgrounds movement in Holyoke. First, because of the
great increase in attendance. Second, because of the marked
in: provements on the various grounds, and Third, because of the:
feature placed under control of the Commission viz. the supervision of the Public Bath Houses. The first needs no comment,
only that the playgrounds supply real need and are greatly
appreciated. The fencing of Hampden Street Playground is
a great improvement and big step forward and with further
careful planning this Playground should develop into an ideal
one and will indeed be credit to the city.

The facilities for playing and witnessing baseball games
have been greatly increased and just as greatly appreciated )
by those interested in .ne national game. The placing of the
supervision of the Public Baths with the Commission resulted,
we believe, in decided improvement in the conduct of these
popular places of recreation. In this connection the Commission considers that the facilities for bathing are absolutely
inadequate for the accommodation of the large number who
wish to indulge in this form of sport The Bath Houses are

) REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
noc credit to the city, and should be replaced by larger and
more up-to-date open air pools. There is much need of such
a pool in the South Holyoke section.

In the line of further improvements the Commission would
suggest the advisability of enlarging and fencing the Morgan
Grounds, as by doing so, the value of this playground would
be greatly enhanced.

The Commission has been criticised for failing to provide
for the devotees of other sports, particularly tennis, as there is

. an increasing demand that some provision be made for those
who wish to indulge in this‘excellent recreation. We would
recommend that move be made in this direction.

Respectfully submitted,
A. A. BROOKS, Chairman.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
Supervisor of the Holyoke Playgrounds
FOR  

To the Board of Playground Commissioners, Holyoke, Mass.
I beg leave to submit to vou my fifth Annual Report as
Supervisor of the Holyoke Playgrounds for the season of  .

The past season has been one of unusual interest and activity in our recreation and playground development. The
playground movement originally limited to the providing of
play space for children is steadily broadening and is gradually
solving the problems of organizing and influencing the recreation for adults as well as for children.

The following additions to our permanent activities have
partially met the general demands for recreation facilities for
adults. The erection of Hand Ball Court and Bleachers on
Prospect Field. The erection of Basket Ball Court and
Bleachers on the West Street playgrounds and the supervision
of the three Public Bath Houses.

The results which have been accomplished this season
show distinct advance over former years.

SUPERVISION.

The summer season of the playgrounds opened July  th
and closed August  th.

Supervised Sports, such as: play, swimming, and industrial work were conducted as follows: On School Yards. Elm
Street, Park Street, Morgan School, Highland and William
Whiting School. On Public Parks. Springdale and Highland
Parks.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
On Public Playgrounds and Bath Houses.

E-Imwood, Maple Street, Hampden Street, West Street,
Prospect Field. Bath Houses: Ward One, Ward Four, and
Ward Six.

When referring to the playgrounds one naturally thinks
of play as the sole object in view. This is only partly true,
for the activities of the well regulated and thoroughly supervised playground are many. They touch almost every phase
of life and are not only means of entertaining and amusing
the children, but are potent factors in guiding the children to
higher moral planes by educating them along social and economic lines to one who believes that the playground is simply
a loafing place for children. visit to one of the grounds would
be revelation and an education.

August  rd.

On Wednesday, the Jast week of the playground period,
notice was received from the Board of Health stating that owing
to the number of case of Infantile Paralysis in the city, they
requested that we close the Elmwood, Springdale and Morgan
School playgrounds at once and to eliminate the large closing
exercises which were to be held Friday, August  th, on the
Prospect Field. Their request was complied with, and our
playgrounds were closed without any formal exercises. This
was sad disappointment to the children who had worked
so hard preparing their games and dances for the occasion and
to the supervisor and staff of workers who had planned an

elaborate program for the Closing Day. |
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION FORGIRLS.

All the activities of this department were arranged with
the idea of promoting health, enjoyment, recreation and sport.
The usual enthusiasm shown in all the activities by the children
was evidence of how thoroughly they enjoyed and appreciated
the work. The earnest and enthusiastic efforts of the directors and their assistants in the manner in which the games
were presented was noticeably improved and marked ad  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
vancement was made because the activities adopted did the
most good for the greatest number and catered to the needs
of the whole play community to this end. Each year we seek
to enrich the program so that no girls may feel more keenly,
the attachment of the playground.
FOLK DANCING.
Abbie J. Williams, Supervisor.

- Folk dancing was more popular than ever the past season
under the careful direction of Miss Abbie J. Williams. This
department has shown marked advancement over former years.
Each playground was visited twice week, and one hour each
day devoted to Folk Dancing on all of the playgrounds. Folk
dancing stands ouc prominently because it has always been
popular with the participant and the observer. The character
and history of the dance is well studied before it is plac on
the program, so that nothing but the best, most hea'thful,
enjoyable, refined, attractive aad invigorating dances for all
ages are chosen.

Through the folk dances we have many opportunities to
educate the sociel and moral side of the child and to direct the
formation of right habits and high ideals of conduct. The types
of dancing most desired for exercise and recreation are those
that have historical value, such as many of the European
and old American dances.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
DANCES AND GAMES USED ON THE HOLYOKE PLAYGROUNDS.
Dances.
Scotch Lassie Rustic Reel
May Pole Dance Children’s Polka
Shoemakers’ Dance Irish Washerwoman
Hoop Drill Weaver's Dance
Ace of Diamonds La Papillion (Butterfly)
Scotch Reel Gust of Skoal
Chinese Dance Klapp Dance
Singing Games.
I See You Greeting and Meeting
Merry Go Round  Howdy Do, My Partner
Summer Reign Swing Song
Grandmother’s Dance In Summer
Dance, Dear Partner, Mine One By One
- Tag Games.
Jolly is the Miller Dance, little Partner
Last Couple Out Prisoners’ Base
Cat and Mouse Rabbits’ Nest
Bull in the Ring The Beater Goes Round
Tree Deep Line Interference
Snatch the Handkerchief Double Tag
Live Tag Japanese Tag
Ham, Ham, Chicken and Bacon Flank Tag
Stoop Tag
Ball Games.
Baseball Center Ball
Playground Ball Peg Driving
Circle Ball Keep the Ball
Corner Ball Hand Baseball
Captain Ball Teacher
Crowd Ball Volley Ball
Name Ball Relay Ball

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
Dodge Ball Leather Ball
Clock Ball Speed
Pass Ball Scatch Ball
Straddle Ball Center Base
End Ball
GAMES FOR SMALLER CHILDREN.

Hill Dill Peggy in the Ring
London Bridge Pussy in the Corner
Go Round Round the Valley The Mulberry Bush
Oats, Peas, Beans and Beans

Grows Bingo
The Farmer in the Sho-Dido Pigeon
We are Playing Together Bluebird
Did You Ever See Lassie Ring Roses
Hickory Dickory Dock Sally Waters
The Muffin Man Farmer in the Dell
Soldier Boy Fox and Chicken )
Cat and Mouse War

BASKETRY AND CHAIR CAINING.
| Miss Helen C. Moriarty, Superotsor.

In this department it may be stated without exaggeration
that the season just passed has witnessed the greatest progress
in Basketry seen in Holyoke up to the present time. Both in
the number of pupils and in the extent and variety of the
work completed all previous records have been surpassed.

In the rafia and reed work the children were divided into
two groups, the elementary and the advanced. The elementary
work consisted of winding rafha to make the simpler articles,
such as picture frames, napkin rings, whisk-broom holders,
etc. By braiding the raffla, small baskets, mats, and doll caps
were made: in some cases children applied this process to
making things for their own personal wear, as hats or moccasins.
Knotting the rafha was employed in the production of school
bags and coat hangers. Luncheon sets and doll caps with tassels were built up by weaving on cardboard.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  

The advanced classes of children used the “lazy squaw,”’
the “knot stitch,” and the “figure eight” in carrying on the
sewed rafha work. Some of the designs gave evidence of well
developed color sense and an instinct for the artistic that was
most gratifyng. Baskets of all shapes and kinds were turned
out by the older girls. Among these might be mentioned pen
trays, small and large sewing baskets, sandwich trays, card
receivers, flat sewing baskets, collar button baskets, dainty
boudoir. The woven reed work included; glass trays with woodwooden bases, fruit baskets, stocking baskets, bud vases, candlesticks, Dutch baskets with covers, large jardinieres, large and
small trays, waste baskets, hanging baskets.

These reed baskets were in such demand this year that it
was necessary to omit shoe lace work entirely. The use of
pine needles was new departure; they make most attractive
basket and work up quickly. Next year we hope to introduce
bead making. From my experience am sure that this will
appeal strongly tothe children.

The popularity of chair-caning is increasing every year.
A high water mark of nearly five hundred chairs was reached
this season. Most of this work was done at the West street
and the Whiting school, where large orders were received from
various societies and individuals. One large order came from
a Springfield society. At some of the playgrounds as many as
forty boys were working on chairs at one time. The boys were
furnished with cane free and were allowed to cane as many
chairs as they pleased. Some earned as much as five dollars
in this way. 

SEWING DEPARTMENT. ,
Mrs. Mary Kostenbader, Supervisor.

For the fourth season instructions in sewing were given
daily on all our play centers. Each playground was visited
once week by the supervisor who planned and designed the
work. The course was practically the same as other seasons.
The newest patterns and latest styles of garments interested
the girls. Materials were generously supplied by the Commission at very small cost per child.

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

This course in sewing on our playgrounds has been found
practical and satisfactory. [very season the interest in the
work increases. This vear crocheting and weaving on katrinka frames was introduced which proved very popular.
The principal stitches mastered were the chain stitch, slip
stitch, single crochet, double crochet, picot, mesh, tatted
stitches, rick-rack and file edging. number of beautiful and
useful articles were made. The katrinka frames were used mostly by the smaller girls who made dust caps, dollies, luncheon
sets, pillow tops, baby caps and dressing saques. The katrinka
frames were purchased at very nominal sum of  per set
and the material used on them were donated by the American
Thread Company to which we are very grateful.

A very pleasing sign was the number of mothers that
visited the playground some making lace and others bringing
different types of handwork.

We noticed number of mothers darning the stockings
for their families. This interest of the mothers is great incentive to the girls to do their best possible work.

Through the faithful co-operation of the directors and the
kindly assistance of the supervisor sewing is well established
in the Holyoke playgrounds and its necessity is known to all
interested. The girls are receiving valuable instructions under
pleasant conditions and gaining knowledge other than che use
of needle and thimble which will make them good home workers and desirable citizens in the community.

Sewing Course Material

 Dust Caps, Doll's Caps Percale

 Aprons Lawn
Kitchen Percale-Gingham
White Muslin
Tea Nainsook

 Underwear Lawn-Nluslin
Corset Covers Lawn-N iinsook
Underwaists Cretonne
Shirts

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONF RS.  Utility Bags
laundry
Stockings
Sewing
Shirt Waists
 Combing Sack  Smocks
 Patching and Darning  Dress
 Shirt Waists  Embroidery
 Guimps Simple Stitch
Heming Table Linen
Hemstitch
STORY TELLING.

Story telling on the playgrounds is carried on by the directcrs and their assistants. At time each afternoon when
the children need rest from the more strenuous play, it is understood that all playground workers who have any gift in that
direction will feel free to tell or read stories to the children.

Story telling ranks with any other occupation in the power
of producing good results. It is least restricted and the possibilities in story telling for guiding the child’s mind to the best
of everything in the world are limitless. child who has been
trained to appreciate gcod literature by means of story tellirg
will develop the power of judging right from wrong, as well as
to love the best in literature, one of the greatest gifts ahumen
being can possess.

BASE BALL.

The great American game of Base Ball, as might be expected, was the most popular game on our local playgrounds.
At the start of the season three leagues were organized. The
Midget, the Junior and the Senior Leagues, The grounds
represented were the Elmwoods, Maple St., Chestnut St., end
the Morgan School. The Midget League played schecu'e
of games. The games being played on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. The Junior and Senior Leagues plaved a
schedule of games each. The Junior League were
played on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings, and the

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
Senior Leagues games were played on Monday, Wednesday
| and Friday afternoons.

A total of games were played representing different boys. Great interest was manifest as in each League the
pennant was won by margin of only one game. The greatest interest was centered in the Senior League. At the close
of the season the Hampden St., and the Chestnut St. teams
were tied for the pennant. The deciding game was played
August  rd, over spectators witnessing it. The
game was not decided until the eighteenth inning and Hampden St. won by score of  to  This was great game and a
fitting finish for our Base Ball season.

SKATING.

During the months of January and February skating was
enjoyed on five skating rinks as follows: Hampden St., Maple
St., West St., Joseph Metcalf School and Newton’s Pond
were crowded with many children after school hours, on Saturdays and on Sundays.

A hockey rink was built on Newton’s Pond, and schedule
of games were played between number of organized
hockey teams. The games were very interesting and drew a
large attendance at each game. Electric lights were installed
at each skating rink and skating was enjoyed by large number
of working boys and girls during the evenings with care takers
at each rink. Every effort was made to keep the rinks in
good condition and the best of order was maintained.

SKATING RINKS.
Attendance Eight Weeks.
January and February.

Hampden Street.......... ......... ..  

Maple Street....  ... ..  

Joseph Metcalf School..... ..............  

West Street School.......................  

Newton's Pond .. ........ .............  

Total... ...... ...........  

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
DEVELOPMENTS, INIPROVEMENTS AND EQUIPMENTS.

. During the past season number of new equipments and
apparatus were purchased. Improvements and developments
were made on several of our play grounds.

The erection of bleachers on West St., and Prospect fields
has been greatly appreciated by thousands of the lovers of
base ball who gather on those fields and enjoying the Sunday base ball games.

ELAIWOOD PLAYGROUND.

The base ball field on this ground was harrowed and graded.
The diamond was placed in very good condition, seats were
built along the south side of the ficld and giant stride was
installed, filling in the Dingle at the Carleton St. end of the
grounds is progressing slowly. Eventually this portion of the
field will make desirable playground with the addition of a
wading pool and bath house.

: NEW BEECH STREET GROUNDS.

The Bh Street grounds located in Oakdale adjoining
the High School was given over by the Park Board to the
Playground Commission for the use of play and recreation.
This transaction was much appreciated as in time we expect
to lose the use of the Maple Street field. This area will make a
valuable addition to our play fields.

During the past season improvements were made on the
base ball diamond. new back stop was built and wire
fence erected along the east side. In time, with the filling in
of the Dingle on the east side, this will make one of the best
play fields in the city.

| PROSPECT FIELD.

Additions were made to the back stop and hard ball
court was constructed at the rear. It is so planned that two
mcre courts can be added at very small cost, providing the
demands require it. Bleacheres were constructed along the side

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
ines which will seat over one thousand people. The grounds
were graded and rolled and put in first class condition making
an ideal play field for sports of all kinds.
MORGAN SCHOOL.

This ground was improved by the addition of giant stride,
a horizontal ladder, one set of gravelling rings and basket
ball court. These have helped very much to entertain the
the large number that visited this small playground. The
playing space was loamed over and put in good condition.
There is great need of fence around this playground as the
apparatus borders very close to the street which is an element
of danger to children.

HAMPDEN STREET.

The much talked of and agitated movement of fencing our
playground was started on this ground. new iron fence was
erected at cost of three thousand dollars ($ inclosing
the whole field. The following new apparatus was installed:
a horizoncal la er,a giant stride, two sets of travelling rings;
a basket ball and volley ball court were erected; the wading
pool was improved, new planks were put in around the sides
and so arranged that the children may sit on them and paddie
their feet in the water. The pool was also refilled with sand
and fresh water flows continuously. It is planned next
season to grade and grass the grounds and to build fence,
enclosing one corner of the ground. This section is to be known
as the “‘baby’s corner,’ where baby swings, sand boxes and
tables with shades will be set aside exclusively for mothers and
their babies. Greater efforts will be devoted to making this
playground more beautiful bv the planting of trees, shrubbery
and flowers.

WHITING SCHOOL.

This playground was improved by the removal of the old
[’merald Ingine house and the ereccion of an iron fence by the
school board. New swings, teeter boards and basket ball
court were installed on this ground.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
WEST STREET PLAYGROUND. .
The improvement and development of this playground
during the past season was the most noticeable of all. The
base ball field was enlarged by the addition of more land on
the south side adjoining the old field. This land was acquired
by lease from the Holyoke Water Powwer Company. The whole
field was loamed and rolled. The back stop was moved back
about feet and low fence with seats was built along the
side lines. At the west side of the grounds on the raised embankment bleachers were erected which will accommodate
over people. The wading pool was repaired and refilled
with sand. The new apparatus installed consisted of giant
stride, two sets of swings, two teeter boards, one set of trave'!ling rings, and horizontal ladder. New basket ball and vo!ley ball courts were erected, making West Street one of the best
playgrounds in the city.
LOCATION OF PLAYGROUNDS. :
Twelve playgrounds were operated during the season.
The school board loaned several school yards for play purposes and also permitted the use of school rooms for reed and
rafha basketry and folk dancing. The park board gave gencrous cO-operation in perminttig play to be conducted on several of the park properties.
The Following are the Playgrounds and Locations.
Name Location
Elmwood Carlecon Street
Maple Street Maple, Hampshire, Chestnut
and Cabot Streets
Morgan School Bridge and Adams Streets
Hampden Street Hampden Street, between
Oak and Bh. }
Prospect Field Bh and Hampden Streets
West Street Cor. Winter Samosett Sts.
Whiting School Chestnut Street
Elm Street School Elm Street

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
Highland School Nonotuck, Lincoln and Allyn
Streets
Park Street School Cor. Hamilton, Park, East Sts.
Springdale Cor. Main Papineau Sts.
Highland Park,  days per wk.) Jones Park
EVENING LESSONS.

Four playgrounds, Maple St., Hampden St., West St.,
and Morgan School were open evenings with supervised play
from to  p. m., during the months of July and August. Many
young people and older folks who work during the day attended
the playgrounds and obtained the much needed recreation.

The young men and women joined in the different games
and athletics. Big brothers and sisters played in the same
game with their smaller brothers and sisters. Many mothers
visited with their children and joined in the games or used the

. apparatus. The evening sessions have proved to be very popular.

During the eight weeks that the four playgrounds were
open the total attendance was  ‘The average nightly
attendance for the four grounds was  .

DISPLAY.

Owing to the sudden notice given by the Board of Health,
not to hold the large closing exhibition that was planned for
August  arrangements were made to place the articles made
on the playgrounds, on display in the show windows of A.
Steiger Co., and the McAuslan Wakelin, High Street
stores. They were classified under three departments; the
Steiger store contained the boys’ and girls’; departments consisting of chair caning, basketry, reed and rafha, bags, etc.
In the McAuslan Wakelin store was the sewing department.
This display was beautiful and recieved many expressions of
appreciation from those who saw it and proved to the public
the fact that the work made an ideal occupation for the children
during the playground season.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
ATTENDANCE.

The popularity of our playgrounds is evidenced by the
large number of children that visit the grounds daily. This
serves as an excellent index to the feeling of the children in regards to the playgrounds, while each season the attendance
has shown steady increase. This year was the most noticeable and greatly in excess of last season. In the attendance was  In This is an increase of
  over the previous year.

Attendance for Eight Weeks.

Days Evenings

Elmwood.........................  

Whiting School....................  
Hampden Street...................  
Maple Street......................  
Morgan School....................  
West Street.......................  

Elm Street................... ....  

Highland School...................  

Park Street School........... .....  

Springdale School..................  

Highland Park....................  
Total, days...................  

Total, evenings................ :
 
BATH.

Baths at the Whiting School were under the direct charge
of Mrs. Winifred Knightly and Miss Jennie Sullivan who
deserve great praise for the efficient manner in which they administered their duties. Baths were given daily during the .
playground season.

Number of baths given, boys......................  
Number of baths given, girls.......................  
Total... ee    

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
SWIMMING.

One of the most enjoyable and health-giving recreations
for all is bathing. This was the first season thac the bathing
came under the control of the playgrounds. The three public
bath houses located in Ward One, Ward Four and Ward Six
were given to the play grounds for supervision. Very little
improvement was made on the buildings as no provisions were
made for his in our budget, but great improvement was made
in the supervision. Swimming instructors were placed in
charge at each bath house. Swimming was taught the children
each day from co  Each bath house was open from
  to a.m., from .o afcernoons and on Tuesday,
Thursday and Sacurday evenings from to  .

} Two lady iastructors from the playgrounds were placed
in charge at each bath house on Wednesday afternoons and
eveniags when the use of the baths were given once to the working girls and women in the evening. This arrangement proved
quite popular.

The abilitv to swim is coisidered of such importance that
many of our High Schools and Colleges are now making it a
requisite for graduation. Swimming and knowledge of first
aid to drowning people should be acquired by all as early as
possible. The popularity of our bath houses is evidenced
by the large attendance.

BATH HOUSES.
Attendance for Ten Weeks. .
Number of Baths Boys Girls Total
Ward One, Bath House........  
Ward Four, Bath House.........  
Ward Six, Bath Houre ....... ..  

Totals................... ..  
Summary of Attendance of the Playground Summer Season.
Total attendance at day sessions................  
Total attendance ac evening sessions.............  

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  

Total attendance at Whiting School baths........  

Total attendance at Ward One bath house........  

Tocal attendance at Ward Two bath house.......  

Total attendance at Ward Six bath house... ....  

Grand total attendance.....................  
SPECIAL EVENTS.

The special events which occured during the past season are
all worthy of record. At che opening of the season extensive
plans were made for the season. It was pianned to hold such
events as “A Mothers’ Day”, Baby and doll carriage parade,
and inter playground tournaments at the various playgrounds,

'  buc just abouc the time when the events were to be held few
cases of infantile paralysis were reported in the cicy and it was
deemed advisable to omit such events as would bring together
the smaller children from one section of the city to che other,
and only such events that the older boys participated in, were
held.

LYNN-HOLYOKE BASE BALL GAMIE.

On Tuesday, August  ch, special game of base ball was
was arranged for between our boys and the champion playground base ball team from Lynn, Mass. The visitors arrived
in our city in the afternoon and were met by the Chairman,
Mr. A. A. Brooks, the supervisor and superintendent. They
were escorted to the Mayor's office where all were incroduced
and received after which ali journeyed to the Prospect field
where large number of spectators had gathered to witness the
sport. The game was very interesting and exciting and was
won by the Holyoke boys by the score of to  By winning
this game and having defeated all the nearby cities in former

. years, Holyoke can lay claim to the playgrounds championship
of the state.

A new feature this season which proved to be decided
success was the base ball field day held August  th on the
Prospect field. This event was witnessed by large attendance
of adults and great interest was shown by the boys as all were

) REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
competing for the championship of the city in their respective
divisions. The Midget, Junior and Seniors.

The events consisted of fungo hitting, throwing base ball,
  and yard dashes, hit and run co first base, running
the four bases. First, second and third prizes were awarded
in each event. The prizes were gold, silver, and bronze watch
fobs donated by the Meaney Clothing Co., to which we are
very grateful. Six playgrounds were represented and the team
scoring the greatest number of points, received silk banner.
This was presented by the playground commission and was
won by the Hampden Street.

POINTS SCORED.

Seniors Juniors Midgets Total

Hampdens..............  
Chestnuts Denes  
Maples.................  
West..... ..  
F.lmwoods ........... 
Morgans................ 

KITE TOURNAMENT.

At the start of the season kite making was introduced
for the first time on our playgrounds. Materials were generously furnished the boys, and great interest was taken in this
innovation. It is impossible to state the number of kites
made, but by looking up towards the sky in the vicinity of any
of our playgrounds on fair day, you would see number of
kites flying over the city, with the object of creating more interest in this line, kite tournament was planned for August
 nd. This event was not the success anticipated, as the day
selected was very warm and no wind blowing. However the
program was gone through and prizes awarded, using our best
judgment.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
RECOMMENDATION.
The necessity of fencing our playgrounds is again called
to your attention. good start was made the past season
by fencing the Hampden Street playground. would suggest
that the coming year arrangements be made to fence the Morgan school playground.
SWIMMING. a

It may be of interest to the playground commission and
to other people to know that the popularity of the bath houses
located in Ward One, Ward Four, and Ward Six have increased
so rapidly the past summer that on number of days
it was impossible to accomodate all that wished to use them.
It is common occurence to have three and four bovs dress
in each of the lockers and the pools have been so crowded at
times it seemed impossible for them to swim.

To relieve this congestion would suggest that the present

- buildings be taken down, the pools extended, and the lockers
moved back, and that more such swimming pools be constructed
in differenc sections of the city. Ward Two especially is
badly in need of some bathing facilities.

I would recommend also that electric lights be installed
at each bath house. The houses to be open six evenings week
with attendants in charge and that two evenings each week
be given for the use of working girls and women.

TENNIS.

During the past season have had many requests for tennis courts. This is form of recreation that must be provided
for eventually. would recommend, if the Commission can see
its way clear, that some property be leased and tennis courts
installed. This can be maintained at very small cost.

NEW CENTER.

In view of the fact that the section of the city known as
Oakdale is being thickly populated and requests have been
received for playground in that section, would recommend

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.

that arrangements be made with the School Board for the use

of the Kirtland school grounds and provisions made to establish playground at this school the coming season.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

Valuable assistance was rendered the playground movement in the season of by the hearty co-operation of various
city deparcments, private concerns and individuals. Thanks
is due to the School Board for making possible the extension
of the playground work by the loan of several school yards and
buildings for play purposes. )

The Park Board is to be commended for its generous
co-operation in permitting play to be conducted on several
of the park properties. The A. Steiger Co., and McAuslan
& Wakelin Co. was of great service in giving the use of their
show windows for display of the articles on the playground
at the close of the season.

In closing this report wish to thank the playground staff .
and employees for their hearty co-operation.

I feel grateful and appreciative to the Playground Commission who have so willingly given their time working out
the details for the development of our playground which means
so much for the healthy growth of the youth of our city. To
Mr. Frank O’Connell, our playground superintendent, am
very grateful for his ever ready and willing assistance. Also
to the press, the Transcript, Telegram, Republican and Union,
were most generous in giving space and news of our city’s
playgrounds.

Respectfully submitted,
P. H. KELLY, Supereisor.

REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.  
SEASON  MUNICIPAL PLAYGROUNDS,
HOLYOKE, MASS.

ORGANIZATION OF STAFF.

Summer Season of  .

P. H. Kelly, General Supervisor.
Frank O’Connell, Superintendent.

SPECIAL INSTRUCTORS.
Helen C. Moriarty, Basket and Chair Caning
Miss Mary Kostenbader, Sewing
Abbie J. Williams, Folk Dancing.

PLAYGROUND DIRECTION.

Whiting School Maple Street
Bride C. Herbert, Director Mary J. O'Connell, Director
Samuel J. Kalloch, Coach Edwin J. Keough, Coach
Teresa Fenton, Play Leader Helen M. Grace, Play Leader
Ala Vining, Play Leader Gertrude E. Dunn, Play Lead’
Marie Dillon, Play Leader Helen Gow, Playleader
Elmwood
Claire G. Sullivan, Director Thos. E. Shea, Evenings
Harold P. Kelly, Coach Morgan School
Mary E. Hogan, Play Leader Bessie McGuines, Director
Dorothy Cleveland, Play Leader Edwin J. Mitchell, Coach
Helen Murray, Play Leader Teresa Mockry, Play Leader
Hampden Street Ruth Yoerg, Play Leader
Alice Gillis, Director David N. Rubin, Evenings
Daniel J. Collins, Coach West Street
Elsie M. Ryan, Play Leader Mary L. Hebert, Director
Mary G. Conway, Play Leader Jeremiah C. Murphy, Coach
Katherine Sullivan, Play Leader Helen Clifford, Play Leader
John Malone, Evenings Rose Kenredy, Play Leader

  REPORT OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
Ward One Bath Mary I. Farrell, Play Leader
John Clark, Swim. Instructor Thomas F. Finn, Evenings
Ward Four Bath Ward Six Bath
Thomas Malone, Swimming Lawrence Dowd, Swimming
Instructor Instructor
Whiting School Baths
Mrs. Winifred Knightly, Matron
Jennie Sullivan, Asst. Matron
Substitute Workers.
Helen I. Dunn Beatrice Ryan
Mary A. O’Connell Mary Cronin

—,
.  
& ,
a  
BS td aes
 os S
£ 
“ .
nm  
é,  
To)  
BES 
sa Ve
EK :

Z ze  
s  s
By boa  
A EESR FBS 
RA are BERR 
w BENS af) 
a ae Am mW ade ex
Z SEN oF Se te Be
S sa x. Qh mein Oo iB oe TaN Sie
os  
Sd Gs g
Se .
 oS A)  Gg
a s& :
s? EF :
 
- ps Lo nN  S
  gs
: oar oo!  rte! |
“o Oo
  Ci ou
.yt Dott Bil
hak  
ges tg SL Ams:   Plt!
tee [Bag are Bobo:
LER  gh  ye  a
efes  eiéSieg hg Og Bak!
  yes gees  AGS: |
ae aa So eisets Soy Pins
: esow CEES Bseb a
Ue oa ie  eSB esgeae
es  Se pisos ize  s
. SESE SES AL
“ ow  oc
P oak SES ECE
ESS  vt 
v gates
esdégs
Ozs

  B
i) .
BR fon)
ras
Nn

. rw
—
  Jen)
  Too)
ofS Oy
 a
 
SO
gts
ae s
ZL, 
Ta RA
™“ Oo
—-  —
wn
cio Cc an  To) oo:
 ce S&S &R Fis AS KS &S
  Aaon om Dra  ! Lom
RK ZS DE  WO DD oO Re mo
Fa ot  
—
—,
| Ven)
 te Ne}  Ves  F&F §& &
w
A we
 
Si
ine
S  fon nN en tS oS v— 
fa oF ‘
 ar Se) Se) lop) 
Z$ or) ed 
m Ce) —
a cen ee
Sere a.os os
git. Ba  eR SE SE BEL
—  om —
se Ok Io OS So  ot oe FS
SEE IE SZ (ER [RS ES ES ES CE
YSud:  CSM Tag isa (ag 
ELSE ON OE Fy NZ Ag  
eH TET oY SVG VU Law IU Bs eo) eo)
Cezue se (SECV Gie Sie Sia 
ge   get aes Hes eet Eestysrys
BLS FH  eorzweow fot ext exe gis
Cal unw Era eo TBeogEibcasee ange Seana Ss
Bee Socom Yom Yes GS U-e ’r ia es
asco sb tsbasswmszabm sms  
ouve bo cov ue one) Vu Vo Vo
ew se  nw rw ras
Saco g€ es ss
ODM weeer ous UR UB OS

  rc  |
  .
- 
ee Is  
QO —
— Se &
“S
fe  
: In inanlo
$  wo: er
S G
:  S..
sie PR oe
  a:
 Ow .
mY iy ae) cA:
” [so Gel
eof e
ac:
S sgueg  )
e at  sseseolx  
SeeRR 
vo OC s
FT OFS
 .
: ma
 es  
. eh *
ef ESCHER SEs ize
S) we SRM AA
S la" ue  
Seg SREESZ IS [a
BIS msncs  o
SF SMR uf)  ON om 
bs ALS
Do Lo 
re Do |
Dt Ps IS
Dt! Po #”
ee -ee cL
Dons Bool! So
to -@B oo), S$ .
Dll ag Be lt Gos
(il) Bagec sc) Eos
 oum ast
rer ng MYON.  
Mocs watus  
Bas ia OO Say Ls cou
Sex rs Brvsn, aon
BIAN LS Gta tesd Ome
as) Sy. acon came)
Base crs Poe Ons
Mecsas ow Yoo Sra.
(aeseS sSss 
Gesa  nnd Ree

 REPORT OF THE
Overseers of the Poor
RELIEF DEPARTMENT. |
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen.

In accordance with the charter and revised ordinance of
the city, the Overseers of the Poor respectfully submit their
forty-second annual report, it being for the fiscal year ending
November .

The number of persons aided during the year was  ,
representing families, at an expense of .

The number of persons receiving Mothers’ Aid during
the year was  representing families at an expense of
$ |

The department also furnished burial for bodies, at an
expense of .

The expense for the year for all classes of partial and full
support, has been as follows:

City, outdoor poor................. 
City, sick at hospital...............  
City burials........ ..  

————— 
State, outdoor poor................  |
State, sick at hospital..............  
State, burials......................  

————— 
Cities and towns, outdoor poor ..... 
Cities and towns, sick at hospital....  
Cities and towns, burials...........  

—— 

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
Investigation and office supplies..... 
Salaries...........................  

————— 
City Farm........................  
Transferred to general receipts......  
: 
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation..................... 
Receipts from Mothers’ Aid.........  
————— 
MOTHERS’ AID.
Mothers’ Aid...................... 
- Transferred to general receipts......  
————— 
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation..................... 
Additional appropriation...........  
———— 
Following is detailed statement of expenses outside of
the City Farm:

ry Sar CH Be HM HIN
an err f£ eon tr  ALS
T Oo  DOK OS KY SC te &
Nt  re) cS
F  aecgcgne&s geet RyR
eco CK, Hh Ho Oe yw HOH ON
we 
a Ws
aw @& Mit
| £€eS &/z
nm o£ SS Ss hese Oo fF SA KR [ke
ty  le iopa) ca (Yoo) Lass |
te nad ”
  Bo  ww
o) NN  SC SF ZC LS DK KF -| 
re Ma MO FASE GE FEE RAaAN|S
sareye Freon oe AN SOOM Oe  &
PIES fo om Fe Se AB
fad Qn  Fs eH HN ES
 ———-— seeee la
wt? wn a) se F& x
tx] eo FE SEPSEREA EEA
. es soe oe so siz
. e)  o
o jolgd pue "isuy ZEN FR OR RH MAAN res
mN e] se] om  
Cay oe oe ee
ee  EN BER SS BSB PSRE BZ
D ml  ie Pj  Send
[x  dunuug pue fsouon)  Sf Om et Ae
-eie |!  ++ Oo FR b& ‘
m  |i-wig ‘soyadng ayy OZ FSR ERR SRY SIR
fx) nsSe SS SN
we t+  CSC  AN KR BA SOS KH EF KS
juadsopy] aduapraosg rere amma osaean sig
‘ ye B&B S&F SIZ
NNOA &— RN APN a,
ev i
 
 So  YF XN  ££ aw OW KR E'D
oO oe or SF coco tp MN OOM OM OHI
eidsopyy Sorry SOR H) Oo SIS
c perreeoH Ss) Re BG St K€EAR EB
nm Om AN +t HB OH NN BM HF NIM
on Wo +
- TT nD
—  Vos   SER RKIG
OC ff stung puespey ig et oe oe we eR oe te RIS
| Se ON ea er oS SN x
US) oeao Sn -—- —— —.  )
|;  oO se fs wer ke BS Ste
[J |voneaigsaauy puruone  SF  SS SF Ha se MB BS
-dousued ‘guoydaya SC  So ms NN NI S
YY Weel Be Ae  BR nN AQ mw |
Z. \-#— Dn
oR SS)
A. yA rn. tang
 . ——
* DF |
[xj TOES Sa Re SS
MB DB DS mw em OM ale
Gens  eC fF BS Ale
Pa sumo ue soli wir a) Oo NHthle
ic LP mo os 
oO DO iz
a Fe
+  S&S fS nN SF KF Lis
Je eSer enn Ae
of  He ae he me tt ce NI
Z. DULDIPIIN  wow ec SM ANAH GT SF ale
. Nn ANNAN AKH BF NA HIE
ea)  SOS VS SDR eS SOE Re
& NSN BC wr Ss FC SNN TE KIS
Ruryy  ue  Lowes +n eae ses els
” a
 eB ep Se.
- tT Kh Se HR sf tf ES SS
. .  Ay
dp) an nL ao  ny Al
end BR Sof  RB RLS
A im
Q a
. pS ET Ro ew et YN Sis
oo pSR 
—) “mer me men ww Se E's
way kK He  Re eG S&S KR KR KR KS
— FN MO MNAANAN A|*
a #R A
e  ec$creegceseseseesesses &f@ Ss,
fx} Semper e€C S'S
FREER FLSEERE FE
  io) Py a
QQ Be SAR BURKE RE RE
  
a
{
L S$ ve o
o »» ct +
E E—  €&
os os sy  Ys B
by} o.  [oy |
C .

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
AMOUNTS APPROVED, OUTDOOR, YEAR  .
Town of Adams...............      
Adelson Brothers.............     
Albany Cash Market............... ee.  
Max Altman.......     
H. A. Allen... ee.  
Anker Printing Co...  ...  cc   
A. Armstrong......... ..      teens  
J.N. Authier... ee.  
A. P. Tea Co... ees  
E. P. Bagg, Jr.. M.D...  ee.  
N. Bail...   en  
Baldwin Bros.............     eens  
W. Banos..........   eens  
Charles E. Bardwell......................  

W. Baraslau....  ...   .
A. Baskin...  
Adalbert Baulne...............   
H. O. Beauchamp..............    
Joseph H. Beauchamp...................... .-.  
O. Beaudoin. ..... ... 
John B. Beauvais............     
L. J. Becker...  ...        ees  -: 
Besse Mills Co...  ... 
Bibeau Coal Co... 
C. Blais Co... 
Angeline Blanchard...............   
B. Bloome..........  ce    
H.C. Borke.  ... 
Frank Borlen....  ...   
City of Boston...  ... 
N. Bouchard...........  ...      
C. W. Bouvier, M. D........  
Bresnahan O’Brien......................  
D. Brodinsky......  ...   
Ernest Broeker......  ...   

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS:OF THE POOR.
I, Browdy..  ... teens 
Louis Browdy..............      
Brown’s Shoe Store............       Arthur J. Brunelle.....................  
G. W. Burch. ... 
F.G. Burnham Co.............. ..     
W. T. Burns...  ... tee  
S. Burnstein...  ... See    
Edward Cadieux.............  .  
Mrs. Catherine Cady........... .....  
V. Carlin.     
S. Carlinsky..    
Jos. Cavagnaro....  ...  ...    
J. N. Chapman...... ... .. 
Dr. H. E. Chaput.......... ...   .  
O. N. Chaput...    
O. D. Charbonneau..............  .  
O. Z. E. Charest......    
David Charon...........  ...  
Dr. W. H. Chevrette................ 
Chicago Cash Market.................. 
City of Boston...  ... 
T.S. Childs....  cc  
D. Chouinard... ....  ...     
Churchill Pharmacy..............  
Citizens Coal Co...  ...    
Cleveland Pharmacy................ ue  
L. Cloutier Son.....  ...    
A. L. Codaire Co...  
S. Coderre.  ...  nes  
Timothy Collins...  ...      
Collins Murray. ..... ...    
L. J. Comstock........... 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts................  
Margaret Connor.............    nee  
Jos. A. Corriveau.....  ...     
Paul C. Cote...  ... ce    

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
John B. Couture... ...... ...   
J. G. Cowens.. 
Dr. Scanley C. Cox...  ... 
J. J. Craven...  ... 
Mrs. Annie Cressy............    
Jos. A. Croteau...  ce    
Curley Drug Store.............. ......  
Curran Bros........    
Anthony Czerwonka....................-. 
S. Davis Son...  
Desmarais Drug Store...................... ...  
Jas. T. Devine. ............    
Thomas Dillon Est............... .. 
District Nurse Assn........... ...  cae  
Con’l. Donoghue... .........   
D. J. Donoghue. ....... ..... 
Hugh Donoghue .....................  
Tim Donoghue...............    
Donoghue Bros...........  ....      
Wm. B. Dowd...  ... 
M. J. Doyle Ptg. Co...  ...  
Val Ducharme...........  ene  
W.O. Ducharme............   
A. D. Durocher.............................  
Dydek Bros...  ... eens  
[elliott Park Pharmacy..................... ...  
I. Elpman.....  ...    
S. Epstein.  ...  ...    
City of Fall River............. 
J. L. Fairbanks...... ........  ...  
].H. Farr...  ...   
N. Feldman..................  ene  
A. W. Fiske.......... cc   
City of Fitchburg............ ...     
Fitzgerald Book Store.... ................ ..  
J. H. Fitzsimmons.............................  
D.M. Foley......... ...  ees  

  REPORT OF OVERSFERS OF THE POOR.

George H. Foster..........     
Flynn Drug Co...  ...    
S.A. Flynn...   
Mrs. Mary Flynn...   cc    
Town of Framingham..................  
A. H. Gallivan, M.D...  ... ee. :
Wm. Gagnon Son... ...  ... ees  
Henry Garrant..       
S. E. Gates... eens  
edward Gauthier..........     
Gelineau Son...  ... 
Alfred O. Gilbert.    .  
Jos. Gilhooley..      
E. M. Gingras...  ... cc   
A. F. Gingras.. ees  
A. F. Glesmann..  ...    
F. Goddu. oo... oe  eens  
Sarah Gold...  ...    
J. Goldwasser...  ...  ...    
Goodall Drug Co...  ... 
Mrs. B. J. Grady...  ... 
W.F. Grady Cow...    
F. L. Greaney...     
P. J. Greaney...  ees  
F. Greenspan...  ...   
Mrs. Mary Griffin... ....  ...       
Thomas J. Griffin...ee  
Mrs. Thomas Griffin. ..........  ...     
James Griffin...     
Mrs. Mary Grogan...  ...     
Groise Bros. Auto Co...  ...    
Joseph Guertin. .....  
L. W. Gwozdy....  
Herman Haberman...........  ... ec      
Mrs. William Halliday...  ...  ...  
Hall’s Dairy...  cc ees  
A. Hamel...  ... cas  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
Mrs. W. Hamel...  ...
Mrs. Thomas Hamel................. ..  
Ed. P. Hand, M. D.......... .. .. .....  
Mrs. Ellen Hanrahan........................ ..  
’ Louis Harel...  ...     
Elizabeth Healy.............   .  
Arthur Hebert..........      
Jos. Hebert..............  ...     
John Heinritz Son........... .....  
Hobbs Warren........... .. cc    
Holyoke City Hospital.........................  
Holyoke Coal Wood Co.............. .. 
Holyoke District Nurse Assn................. 
Holyoke Ice Cou... 
Holyoke Infant Hygiene Assn...................  
Holyoke Public Market........................  
N. E. Howes...  ...ees  
A.D. Huot... 
I'd. J. Hussey, M.D...  ...ee  
Thomas Hussey Est................. us  
Investigation O. P..  ... 
M. Jacobson Son...  ...  ces  
Robert Jones............       
J. W. Jones...    
Peter Jurasz..  ... eens  
]. Kaplinsky...  ... ene  
Mrs. B. Kasprzynski.............       
D. B. Kelton Co...  ... 
R. F. Kelton Co...  ... ces  
John F. Kennedy..............................  
Mrs. Thomas Kennedy............. ........ --  
EK. J. Kenney........ re  
‘Thomas J. Keenan..........  ...      
Kesiel Bros...  ...  teas  
Dr. Philip Kilroy............   ees  
Kirmok Przeszto... 
M. Koss...  ... bette  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.

Peter Kudla..........  
L. A. Labonte.......... ...      
J. A. Labrecque...............-   .  
John Lamb........... 
John O. Lambert................. .  
Mrs. A. Lanctot........... 
J. E. Langlois...  ...     
Edmond Lapointe............ ...-     
L. J. Laporte Drug Co.................. 
M. J. Laporte...  ...  .  
Mrs. Bernard Lappin.......................... 
Louis F. Laramee...............  
A. R. Larose...  ...   
Max Laskin. .........  ec      
City of Lawrence.........  
Jos. Learmouth..............       
John D. Leary...  
F. Lega...  ...     
Lehmann Pub. House..........................  
Library Bureau...........    
L. Lipshitz...  
Jos. Lizok.  ... ce tees  
Mrs. Bruno Loescher............... .... 
Long’s Grocery House..............    
Lyman Mills......... ...     
City of Lynn... ..  ne  
Micheal J. Lyons...........  ... ..    
MecAuslin Wakelin. ...............  
P. F. McCabe.......  
A. K. McDonald. ............     
Mrs. Nancy McDonald.................... ..  
McLean Bros............ teens  
Mrs. J. R. McMahon..................-. 
S. Madej.t...  nee  
P. A. Mahoney............   es»  
Louis J. Maigret.....  ...   
Alph Mainville....  ...  cc     

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
Mansir Ptg. Co...  ce 
H.C. Markert....... ...     
Jane Marks...  ...     
Lena Marks. ........  ...       
W.E. Martin...  ...    
T. C. Marra... 
Mass. Charitable Eye Ear....................  
Mass. Hospital School............. .... ....  
S. Masse...  
P. Matuszek..  ...    
A. C. Menard.................................  
George Menard.........  ...          
V.E. Menard..........    cen  
N. Mercure.......   
The Mercy Hospital....................... 
George W. Messier..........  ...  sec  ,  
Dr. S. Mignault...  ... 
Millane Bros...  ...    
N.W. Miller... nee  
S. Miller...  ...    
Town of Monson.......... ... ces  
Morin Bros...  ... ce tee  
John Moskal..  ...  ... nee  
Mount Holyoke Lithia Spring Water............  
William Mutter...  ... ce      
H. E. Nash Cow.  ees  
National Blank Book Co........................  
E. Navins.  ...  ... ce teens  
Josephine de la Neuville........................  
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co...     
City of New Bedford....................  
R. R. Nickerson..........   ees  
P. Niemiro....  ... ..    
City of Northampton................-.- 
M. J. Norris...    ete    
The Norris Lynch Co............ 
Oakdale Pharmacy.............. ce    

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.

R. T. Oakes...   
K. Obuckowski.  
Frank O’Connell....  ...    
John O’Connell....... .. 
George F. O’Connor...........       
Michael J. O’Connor..............       
Mrs. Mary O’Neil...  ...    
Office supplies. ...  t  
M. E. O'Neil. 
Adam Ostrowski...  ...      
Mrs. F. A. Ouilette......... ... ce    
Alph Ouimette...   
Palace Auto Garage.....  ...  nes  
Albert J. Papineau.......... ...  .  
J. Ernest Paradise...............    
J. Emile Paradise......... ...      
William Pare. .....     
L. P. Parenteau....  ...  
Parfitt Furniture Co.........    
D.  Pease...  ... ees  
J. A. Peltier...  ...   
I. J. Perreault...  ...   
H. Perreault......     
A.Persky..  tenes  
Pomeroy Williams Co........  
Gilbert Potvin. .......     
Wm. J. Powers, M. D....... .. caee  
R. A. Prentiss Shoe Co....  ... 
Prew Coal Co...  ... ens  
Price Lee Co...    
Providence Hospital.....................- .-..  
H. Provost...  ...  
FE. Quenville...  ...ee nee  
M. F. Quigley...  ...        
John F. Quigley...  ... ec     
Dr. M. J. Regan...  ...    
Charles Rheaume..........    eens  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. 
- Riopel Bros...  ...      ee.  
Joseph Rivest...  ...    nee  
A. J. Robitaille...  ...    
John B. Rock. ......... ...    
W.R. Ross...  ...  
Charles U. Roy...  ...   
Roy Peppin...........     
G. E. Russell Co... es  
W. M. St. George, M.D... 
Alcide St. Jeane...  ... ene |
City of Salem...     
Mrs. Nancy Schmitter.......  ...      
Jacob Schwartz... ce    
John B. Shea...  ...ee  
Shea McKenna..........................-...  
Jos. Shiftman....  ...nee  
F.W. Sigdy.    
Edw. Silvain..  cc    
B. T. Silverman. .....  ...      
D. Sincerney...ees  
H, Skolnik.. 
Andrew Smith. .......... cc    ene  
A. W. Smith Drug Co............ .... Smith Shoe Store...........    
J. R. Smith Co...nee  
J. Solin.  ...  .  
S. Solin.  ...ee  
Town of South Hadley.............. ..... ....  
City of Springfield............  ... eau  
Springfield Hospital.............  ...  
Joseph Stacey, Agent..........  ... ce    
State Board of Charity................ ...  
A. Steiger Co... ces  
R. J. Strasenburgh Co..........  ... 
James J. Sullivan. ......  ...     
Thomas Sullivan........... ce    .  
Antonio Symzasko...........      

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Mrs. Frank Tacy..........   ees  .
Jos. H. Tancrede.........  ... ce  .  
O. Tessier...  
John Tilley Cow...    
J. C. Tormey...  ...    
Town of Methuen....... .....     
Town of Palmer............    
Town of Westfield .........  ..  ...      
Transp. Investigation....................  
William Trombowsky......... ..     
Mrs. Alice Tyning.............      
Union Coal Wood Co.......  ...    
A. R. Vincent..... cc   ne  
Mrs. Charles Veins.......  ...     
Alex B. Van Wagnen..................  
Town of Walpole..........  ...    
Mrs. John D. Walsh............ ... ...-. 
Town of Westfield.......... ... 
E.G. White. ...  es  
William B. Whiting Coal Co.....................  
A. Wildner...  ...  ce    
Williams Boot Shop...............  
E. Wodyka Co...  ec ce  
Henry Wood.............  ce    
Jos. Wojtanowitz......  
J. Wolfenden Co......................... ... 
R. Wolfenden........ ..    
Karl Wobokosky...........    
City of Worcester...  ...      
A. Zashetzky..    
Herman Zamsiel............ 
Hyman Zass...... eens 
SICK POOR.

The expense at the hospitals for the care and board of
sick poor was .

The item for medicine for the patients at home and attended by the City Physician was .

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
CITY FARM.
The number of inmates cared for during the year was as
follows:
Males..........       .  
Females......  ...         D
—— 
Adults...  ee.  
Minors. ...........         ees ..  
——  
Number of inmates December ..............  
Number admitted during the year.... ............  
——  
Number discharged.................... .........  
Number remaining December .............  
——  
Of the number remaining are males and females.
Total number of inmates cared for during the
year  ...  ...      
Total number of inmates cared for during the
year  .................... .. +-+...  
Decrease for year  .......................  
HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT.
Number sick in hospital December ..........  
Number admitted during the year....... ...... ..  
——  
Number discharged.............. ...............  
Number died.................  tees  
: Number remaining December ..............  .
——  
The total number of persons receiving hospital treatment
during the year was as follows:
Males. ........  ...        LIS
Females. ....... ...          
, 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.

Of the above number were sent to the hospital direct,
the remainder were inmates of the institution.

The duration of treatment aggregated weeks and
one day, or an average of about weeks and one day for each
patient.

Number of children born in hospital during year:
Males...  ... ce       |
Females  ...         OS

—  
t .

We received more patients in than we did in the
year  as follows:

Number sent direct by City Physician to hospital in

IDS.   nes  
Number sent direct by City Physician to hospital in

IQIG. eens  

Following is detailed statement of expenses at the City
Farm:

t -- om gmaN NN FY
 
Nom osi[é
!  RG  mi  en} aa |
P* HA We NTN TAN MEN
Ne  NNN NK NAN iS
” N
| \”
‘ ——
a \
: an yg
. oN tay
: . ft
st teee ott We ;
“Seg SE, ERE
ex Seeger eed elk
; Sone ts FH 
Co) SOTIBICS xe FESR KES SB SE!
 E
  om ed
aa aT TF ea *» Ss +“
a mr £$  FE F,ek
[a  SUrady “PSN eos SR Og se eo */e
 Pure sadIasag Jolig fF  SS me Yes] om hs
les wee i
— "un SS SF SIH
  auoyd cr NES Tt FENN OS NY]?
— ePL pue Asauoners on -— -— OONOS |}————
“We *# Sf  ws s&s Ss cs
 BS Ss KR KH KF ZF SZ EIR
ad Surneday Sm wom om om SMI
Sood .: Cc mM FH nl S: x
 pue suroys saiddns:  NN  BON |e NN BAN NS S
 .
a ee” oe
. eo. F.C COUcSlUCSUTCUCSUC™:CSS TC ST ON
. Bmw HS |.
pt sft UB Jue IJUISI om soa op mys
  to Pp JUISICy) ost  :?  we E
ho wa
- NO  MM SS CSC SF WwW s:)  on Fn SCAN BES 
Jaquin’] pue ssempsepyy (SP SF er Re XI
- -e  S&S BS ma SC tle
z] YE ss
wn Ils ae oe es FS KR RH FZ: 
ha uiquintd puedunuied: ,.  ROM Loa: "om fF Ss n
Z, Sere x
] ‘@
A.  oe CT a
rea for} ae al 
sanatu CCBY
: -- Fk.  tN
a “ANY pue spooy asnoy,  OR  KR. Pt i
: Dota
. wR
Oe ff *[e—
bX os sr MM DO  en
O spooy Aig AN (wo *» R&R  CO] Hu
an  or]  oe a
 “
Te) re Lan)  Eo] Ss  Li
  Sut Re BIS
te)  .
OID PYF SP US Lo Nt ehr  
ea) cnmpAaAN eo  
rr)  
—, S&S rn S&S Dd  'S
fx se  SRR SH Am S/F
. DO FH MD  MH
Ex yseiddng pue ouppoy og RF SHH BEY SA ESS z
 om 
Ee is
a er  ao IE Vo  op  oS
ay BR SAR SE Ss EH O/E
oS  hk mH oan nm rt owls
Q peed eo mee Ss BS gernrgek fa)  Se)  A
px ol
: “
— pe SS ay
nm -» oc Re Ss  F&F RIN
x tT rR  OM OO le
leer coexspmerennmen ae
SI pue ies S$eReR FREES EBA SIE
i Weta ZB DH GH wm HH HH HM N
e oe
“Wve Rh se SF RZRAAT al
a ok Se Hm Sk BA SB  xn  YVehmreaeaeegenr
. me wt uf} Oo N
  Sea Fat wB SR &
; o
“ S
  
Ss  
Os]  oe
e he hal  uv  to  [e) 
v a.  
* Ss Ss ve

, REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
AMOUNTS APPROVED, CITY FARM, YEAR  .
Alling Rubber Co...  ...  
E.O. Allen 
A. H. Altshul....  ... 
American Soap Washoline Co...........  ... ..  
C. W. Atwater Son...  ... Jee  
L. J. Baker...    
H. O. Beauchamp.................. we. 
T. E. Begley...ne  
B. F. Bigelow...  ... 
E. J. Blaisdell...  ...    
Boston Maine Freight.....................-.,  
M. J. Bowler...  ... 
P. H. Brennan............  ...     
Bresnahan O’Brien.............. 
John S. Brown...  ne  
C.G. Burnham......... ..     
Wm. T. Burns Shoe Co...........  
Samuel Butcher...........     
M. Callahan Co...  ... 
W. D. Carpenter... 
B.S. Casey... ene  
Cave Welding Mfg. Co...  ...  eae  
Chase Cooledge..............  ... 
T. M. Cleary...  
Collins Murray...  ...     
Louis L. Cote....  ... ces  
Cudahy Packing Co.....  ...      
Rev. John B. Daley.............  ...  
S. Davis Son... es  
Dietz Baking Co....    
C. B. Dolge.    
D. J. Donoghue...  ... ce    
Richard J. Donnelly.......... ...  
E. F. Dreicorn..     
W.O. Ducharme... ...  ... 
A. D. Durocher.....  es  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  

Mrs. Bruno Ezold............ ... re 
Elliot Park Pharmacy........... ..... ... ..  
Fitzgerald Book and Art.....................  

. John Fuller Est...... .. ......   
Germo Ni fg. Cow...  ...   
A. F. Glesmann ........  cocci  
Goodall Drug Co...  ... ...ee  
F. L. Greaney...     
J.C. Griffin...     
T. J. Griffin.    
Holyoke Broom Works .........        
Holyoke Box Lumber Co.....................  
Holyoke Public Market........ Docc  
Holyoke Supply Co......  fee  
J. T. Heidner Son...  ...  ...   

. John F. Kennedy............    
Kaffir Cigar Co... ce ene  
Thomas J. Keenan...... ...      
Leahy Pig. Co...  ... nee  
B. E. Lappin...  ... 
Long’s Grocery House............    

. Lynch Smith...  ... 
Maplewood Mills..........  ...   eae  
P. J. Meaney........  ...    
Millane Bros .........  nee  
Dr. J. J. Moynahan.................... 

 McAuslin Wakelin...  ...    
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co...   

| N. Y. Bucter House......... ..................  
Oakdale Mfg. Co...    
FE. O’Connor Co....  
Onoto Chemical Co........... ..    nee  
The Park Pharmacy..............     
L. J. Perrault...... .. ...      
Pitman Moore Co..............  ces  
Pomeroy Williams................ wee  .  
Prentiss Brooks Co.............................  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Prentice Electric Co...   
R. A. Prentiss...  ...    
John F. Quigley...........        
Casper Ranger Lumber Co... ..................  
Dr. M. J. Regan........... ... 
James F. Reidy...............  
J. Phil Rodier.............. .......  
Wm. R. Ross Co... 
J. Russell Cow... oe    
G. E. Russell Co...  
C. B. Sampson.....  ... 
Henry G. Sears... .......  ... .........  ...  
Shea McKenna.............   .  
Mrs. J. E. Shea...  ...  ,  
Sheehan’s Shop...........   eens  
J. M. A. W. Smith. ...     
Standard Oil Co...  
A. Steiger Co... 
Wm. A. Stone........ 
Sullivan Carmody.........      
Swift Co...      
Nap J. Tetreault........... ......  ... 
A. E. Thompson..............  cose    
W. H. Toepfert Drug Co.............. .......  
J.C. Tormey. .........      
Dr. W. C. Van Tassell ......... ...  
A. R. Vincent...    
J. J. Walker...  ...  .  
Washburn Crosby Co.............     
E. D. Wells Co... ce  
West Disinfecting Co......  ...      
W.M. Williams...  ...   
F. W. Woolworth Co.  ... ce ne  

All statistics of general interest will be exhibited by the following tables:

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
TABLE I.

Showing the number and sex of adult persons and minors
of all classes received into the Holvoke City Farm and in each
month of the year ending November .

  MeFM F
December.......  
January........ 
February ...... 
March.........  
April...... .... 
May........... ll  
June........... 
July...........  
August......... ll  
September......  
October........ OO  
November......  
Totals......  

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
TABLE II.

Showing the number and sex of adult persons and minors
of all classes discharged from the Holyoke City Farm in each
month of the year ending November .

z kB OSE

M MF MF
 
December.......  |
January........  
February.......  
March......... 
April...........  
May........ ..  
June........... Hl  
July...........  
August...... QO  
September......  
October.... ... ll  
November. ...  
Totals...... O

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.  
INVENTORY OF HOLYOKE CITY FARM, YEAR  ,
Real Estate.

Farm acres
  acres tillable.................. 
House and Barn.................  
Boiler House...... .............  
Laundry...................... -.  
Other Buildings.................  

Total valuation of Real estate... 
Live Stock. :
Dairy Cattle. '
Cows, dry and in milk,... ...... 
Two year olds.........  ......  
Calves  months).......  ......  
Bull....... ... ........  .....  
Bull  months).........  l......  

Total value of cattle........... 
Hogs.
Brood sows.............  ...... 
Factening.............  ......  
Young pigs............. ......  

Total value of pigs............. 
Horses.
Grey mare.............. Ll......  |
Black, team............. L......  
Sorrel, team............ L......  
Bay, team.............. L......  

Total value of horses........ .. 

o  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR.
Poultry.
Hens.................. ...... 
Roosters...............  ......  
Ducks.................  ...  

Total value of poultry........ 

Total value of live stock...... 

Machinery, tools, including farm wagons and all other
implements. ‘Total value machinery and tools, .

A detailed statement of all farm implements, machinery,
tools, wagons, etc., is on file in the office of the City Farm.
FARM PRODUCTS, BOTH VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL,

FOR THE YEAR  .
Crops raised and their approximate values.
Feed and Supplies:
  tons hay.....  ...  tons millet... ee. tons oat hay.................  tons rye straw. ......  ...    

GO tons corn fodder...................--.  

  tons green fodder.....................  

  tons cow beets............. cae  

  tons turnips...........     

  bushels potatoes.................. -.  

  bushels table beets...................  

  bushels carrots... ...............- 

  bushels parsnips......................  

  bushels onions................. 

  bushels tomatoes.................  

  bushels corn (on cob).................  

  bushels cucumbers....................  

  bushels green peas................. --  

  bushels string beans..................  

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. bushels sweet corn (seed)..............  bunches radishes................  bunches rhubarb..................... doz. bunches celery................... heads cabbage...................... heads lettuce..................... ears sweet corn.............. pounds squash.................... .. barrels apples... ................. ... cords manure.................... -. quarts milk................... ... pounds butter.......... .. .. ...... .. pounds salt pork..................... pounds hams......................-  dozen eggs...  ...hogs...  ... nee PIZS.ens calves...  es chickens... ................... ducks......     
Total value of all products, feed and supplies, 
CASH ACCOUNT.
Cash received from sale of farm products....... 
Cash received from sale of hogs and pigs........  
Cash received from sale of cattle and calves.....  
Cash received from board of inmates...........  
Total cash receipts.........  ...   
Paid to City Treasurer, board of inmates....... 
Paid to City Treasurer, from farm receipts......  
Paid petty cash (miscellaneous)...............  
Bills receivable (uncollected).............. ...  
Cash on hand (balance) collected after Dec. 
$ 

  REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR
SUMMARY.
Real estate..................... 
Live stock................. ..  
Feed and supplies................  
Machinery and tools.............  
Bills receivable..................  
Cash paid to City Treasurer and on
hand............    
Total investment,  ........... 
Total investment,  ......... ...  
Increase in inventory for  ..... 
RECOMMENDATIONS.

I wish once more to renew my request for new dairy and
silo; for increased shed room for the proper care of farm machinery and wagons, and piggery suitable to the needs of this
institution.

A careful perusal of the “Farm Inventory”’ which is made
a part of my report, will show at glance the live stock, machinery and tools, feed and supplies, to the value of over twenty
thousand dollars ($ are here invested and should be
properly housed and cared for. It is my opinion that there are
no improvements so essential at present in any city department as those here enumerated.

I trust that your honorable board will bring this matter
to the attention of the proper officials, and urge the construction this year of these much needed additions.

Another matter that should be seen to is providing more
room for the employees; conditions being such that two persons
occupy the same room.

I thank your honorable board for the valuable advice and
assistance rendered, and also the office clerks and Almoner for
their cooperation and unfailing courtesy, and thank the employees of the institution for their faithfulness and efficiency.

JOHN J. O?CONNOR,
Superintendent of City Farm.

REPORT OF OVERSEERS OF THE POOR  
RECAPITUALTION.
Relief Department. 
Outdoor poor, city........................... 
Outdoor poor, state........  ...     ,
Outdoor poor, cities and towns................  
Administration and investigation..............  
City Farm. ..... 
Total expense to city....................... 
Balance transferred to general receipts.......  
$ 
Mothers’ Aid.
Mothers’ Aid................................ 
Balance transferred to general receipts..........  
$ 
Respectfull submitted,
, FRANK RAINAULT,
PATRICK J. DOWD,
HENRY H. BAUSH,
. Overseers of the Poor.
JOHN J. BYRNES,
City Almoner.
Submitted December .

TREASURERS OF HOLYOKE, MASS.,
And the Term of their incumbency from to  .
} ee
Years
John M. Chapin... ... .......................  
H.S. Babbitt...  ...  ..................  
Gustavus Snow. ......... ......... ....+......  
E. H. Flagg........-....     ees.  
R. B. Johnson... .......... ...  .+..  
Charles W. Ranlet..... ....... .............  
Hon. William Whiting... ....... ..............  
Charles W. Ranlet.......... ..................  
Edwin L. Munn.... ...... .......  ... .....  
Oscar Ely....... .. ... ...  ...  
Iedwin L. Munn.......................... ....  
Hon. Dennie L. Farr.......... ................  
Pierre Bonvouloir........ .. oes  ...  

Report of the City Treasurer
City Hall,
Holyoke, Mass., Dec., .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen:
Gentlemen: Ihave the honor to present to you the Annual
Report for the fiscal year  .
Expenditures Receipts
Revenue Sources............  
Non-Revenue Sources........  
Non-revenue, Light Plant  
Total................... , 
‘Cash balance December 
Cash balance December 
$  
Receipts from various revenue sources and authorized
expenditures were credited and charged to the following accounts:
Expenditures Receipts
Aid Military, Civil War........  
Aid State, Civil War...........  
Aid State, Spanish War........  
Alleys......  ... ..  
ASS€SSOrS..  ... 
Board of Health...............  
Board of Public Works Expenses  
Board of Public Works Salaries.  
Mayor’s Salary................  
Mayor’s Expenses.............  
City Clerk, Salaries............  
City Clerk, Expenses...........  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
| Expenditures Receipts
City Clerk, Elections........... 
City Clerk, Vital Statistics......  
City Treasurer, Salaries........  
City Treasurer, Expenses.......  
City Auditor, Salaries..........  
City Auditor, Expenses.........  
City Tax Collector, Salary.....  
City Tax Collector, Expens.....  
City Solicitor, Salaries..........  
City Solicitor, Expenses........ 
City Sealer of W. M. Salary...  
City Sealer of W. M. Expenses  
City Messenger, Salaries........  
City Messenger, Expenses......  
. City Licensing Board, Salaries...  
City Licensing Board, Expenses,  
Clerk of Committee, Salary.....  
City Engineer.................  
City Hall Rental..............  
City Property.................  
City Debt Direct..............  
City Debt Exempted by LegislaTUPLE... 
City Debt Temporary Loans
Ant. of Taxes...............  
City Debt Hol. Westfield R. R.
Stock...  ...    
City Municipal Sinking Fund
Commission................ 
Contingent...................  
Conscience Money.............  
Dividend Holyoke Westfield
Railroad....................  
Fire Department..............  
Forestry...........  
Fuel...  ...    

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
Expenditures Receipts
Highways and Bridges.........  
Inspector of Buildings..........  
Inspector of Elevators........  
Inspector of Wiring..........  
Interest on City Debt........  
Interest on Temporary Loans...  
Interest on Daily Balances......  
Interest on Holyoke Westfield
Railroad....... ............  
Lighting..................  
Licenses, Liquor...............  
Licenses, Miscellaneous.........  
Library, Public................  
Milk Station..................  
Mothers’ Aid..................  
Park Departmenc..............  
Playground Department..... ..  
Police Department......... ...  
Planning Board...............  
Relief Department.............  
School, Salaries................  
School, Supplies...............  
Schools, Vocational... ........  
SEWETS.  
Sewer Assessment Expenses... ..  
Sidewalks............. . 
Sidewalk Assessment Expenses.  
Soldiers’ Burial................  
Soldiers’ Relief................  
Street Watering...............  
Teachers’ Retirement Fund.....  
Tuberculosis Hospital..........  
Water Rents...................  
Sewers,  ..................  
Sewers,  ..................  
Sewers,  ..................  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.

Expenditures Receipts
Sewers,  ..... ..  ... 
Sewers,  ..... ... ......  
Sewers,  ..... .. ....  
Sidewalks,  ...............  
Sidewalks,  ........ ......  
Sidewalks,  ...... .....  
Sidewalks,  ..............  
Sidewalks,  ............... 
Sidewalks,  ..............  
Sidewalks,  ...............  
Tax, Dog......... ...........  
Tax, County..................  
Tax, Corporation Business......  
Tax, Corporation Public Service  
Tax, Holyoke Street Railway ExCIS@. 
Tax, Street Railway...........  
Tax, National Bank............  
Tax, State......... ....  
Tax, State Highway... .......  
Tax on Holyoke Water Works...  
Taxes, ..................  
Taxes,  ............... ...  
Taxes,  ..... .... .. .....  
Taxes, ...... ...  
Taxes,  ........ Collected  
Taxes,  ... Jo...  
Taxes,  ........ ........  
Taxes,  ....... ...........  
Taxes,  ...... ...........,  
Taxes,  ......... .. ....  
Taxes,  Interest...........  
Taxes,  Interest........ ..  
Taxes,  Interest...........  
Taxes,  Interest...........  
Taxes,  Interest...........  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
Expenditures Receipts
Taxes,  Interest.... .. 
Taxes,  Interest .. on.  
Taxes,  Interest.... ..  
$  
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES NON-REVENUE
SOURCES.
Expenditures Receipts
Bridges, Construction.......... 
Central Engine House..........  
City Hall Sanitaries............  
Clinton Avenue Extension......  
elm Street School. ............  
Fire Department Fquipment..  
Funds, Cemetery.............. 
Fund, Whiting Street..........  
Glen Street Extension..........  
Highways, Permanent Constr....  
Holyoke Water Bonds..........  
Holyoke Water Depi., Interest...  
Infantile Paralysis Epidemic....  
Isolation Hospital ............  
Loan, Highway Permanent Construction... ........... 
Loan, Sewers Permanent Constr.  
Loan, Sidewalk Perm’n’t. Constr.  
Loan, Municipal...............  
Loan, Premium................  
Joan, Accrued Interest... .....  
Municipal and Police Buildings.  
Municipal Sinking Fund ComMISSION...  ...ee  
New High School..............  
Nonotuck Street School. .......  
Playground Construction.......  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Expenditures Receipts
Removal Police and Fire Alarm

Boxes.  ...  
Sewers, Permanent Construction 
Sidewalks, Permanent ConstructiON... see       
Street Flushing Machine........  
Tuberculosis Hospital Constr....  

$  
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
Gas and Electric Light Plant.
Expenditures Receipts
Gas and Electric Department...  
Gas and Electric Depreciation...  
Gas and Electric Extensions. ...  
Gas and Electric Light Plant
Bonds............... 
Gas and Electric Interest... ....  
"$  
BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER .
Dr.
Cash in Banks and in Office..... 
Cemetery Fund...............  
Gas Elec. Light Department.  
Gas Elec. Investment Acct....  
Gas Electric Department.....  
Holyoke Westfield R. R. Stock,

(Par Value).................  
Holyoke Municipal Sinking Fund  
Holyoke Water Commission.....  
Holyoke Water Works.........  
Real Estate............ ...... 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
Sewers,  .................. 
Sewers,  ..................  
Sewers,  .................. }
Sewers,  ........ ..........  
Sewers,  ..................  
Sewers,  ............... ..  
Sewers,  ..................  
Sewers,  .................. 
Sidewalks,  ...............  
Sidewalks,  ...............  
Sidewalks,  ...............  
Sidewalks,  ...............  
Sidewalks,  ...............  
Sidewalks,  ..... .........  
——————-  ,
Taxes,  ......... ..... ....  
Taxes,  ...................  
Taxes,  ...................  
Taxes,  ................. ..  
Taxes,  ..... Uncoll......  
Taxes,  ..... ........  
Taxes,  ..... .........  
Taxes,  .....  .........  
Taxes,  .....  ......... |
Taxes,  .....  .........  
Taxes,  ..... .........  
————- 
$ 
BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER .
Cr.
City of Holyoke............... 
City Debt Direct.............. 
City Debt Direct, Exempt by ,

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.

Legislature.................  
City Debt, G. E. Bonds...... 
City Debt, Hol W. R.R. Stock,  

. City Debt, Hol. Water Works...  

City Debt, Temporary Loans...  
City Debt Direct, Sinking Fund  
City Debt Sinking Fund for Holyoke Water Works...........  
City Debt Appropriation for

Municipal Bonds............  
City Debt, Gas Elec. Invested

Capital................ ..  
ASSESSOIS.  ... 
Central Engine House..........  
Cemetery Fund...............  
Elm Street School.............  
Fire Department..............  
Fire Department Equipment....  
Highways, Permanent Construct.  
General Receipts..............  
Infantile Paralysis Epidemic. ...  
Isolation Hospital.............  
Overlayings,  .........  
Overlayings,  ..............  
Overlayings,  ..............  
Overlayings,  ..............  
Overlayings,  ..............  
Parks, Land................  
Plavground Sites..............  
Playground Construction.......  
Removal Police and Fire Alarm

Boxes.        
Sewer Assessments.............  
Sewers, Permanent Construction  
Sidewalk Assessments..........  
Sidewalks, Permanent Const.....  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  

Soldiers’ Burial................ 
Tuberculosis Hospital Constr...  
Vocational School........... ..  
Whiting Street Fund... ........  
$ 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—EXHIBIT A.
Showing the aggregate amount maturing each year.
Issued for Issued for Issued for City Debt Direct
Payable in H. W. Water G. E. Exempt by Serial
R. R. Works Legislature Loans Total

    
   . ,    
   .   )
 ,   .       ,   .    , .  OOO  ,   ,  OOO  
        

$  
tSk. Fd.*  
Net Debt ,  
{To be paid by Sinking Fund. *Hol. W. R. R. Stock at par value. Surplus

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—EXHIBIT B.
General Purposes Net Outstanding Payable Due
Date Issued Amounts Years Rate Rate Nov.  Nov. 
April    
April   
April  , 
March   
July   
May  
May  (MO  §& OOO  
April  
October  [GQ  
June   
June   
November  K)  
June  
June   
Tune   
March   OOO OOO
March  “GQ  
March  [| OO  
July   
June   
June  
June   
June   
November    
; 
SCHOOIS
May    
Sept.  
April   
April  , 
Sept.  , 
May  
April  , 
$ 
SEWERS.
May   
August  , 
April  , 
March  
March  , 
June  , 
.  
PARKS.
April   
May  
March   
May   
$ 
SCHOOL AND MUNICIPAL AND POLICE BUILDING.
March *$  
June  
$ 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—EXHIBIT B.—Continued.
And
Temporary Loans in anticipation of the revenue made and paid
during the year.
General Purposes. Outstanding
Date Issued Amounts Years Rate Net Nov. Payable Due
Rate  
GAS AND ELECTRIC.
December   
Nov.   
April   
Sept.   
April   
April   
April  . 
March   
February   
May   )
Nov.  
$  
WATER WORKS.
January   
July  
July   
)  
HOLYORE WESTFIELD R. R.
July  
Totals...      . ..)» . 
Rate Net
Funded Debt, at.................. Rate 
Funded Debt, at.................. 
Funded Debt, at........ .........  
Average Rate, 
*To be paid by Sinking Fund.

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
’
BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—EXNHIBIT B.—Continued.
TEMPORARY LOANS.
Date Rate Due Issued Paid Outstanding
Balance due Dec.  and paid in  
February ..........  Nov. 
March ........  Nov. 
May ........  Nov. 
May ..........  May  
June ..........  June 
July ..........  Oct. 
July  ..........  July 
August ..........  Feb. 
Average Rate..........   
Decrease in outstanding notes in 
$  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.

BONDED CITY INDEBTEDNESS—EXHIBIT C.
Showing City Debt, Valuation and Borrowing Capacity.
Citv Debt.

Under Spe- Under General
Issued for cial Laws Laws Total
+ General Purposes, 
t School. ...... ... Park............  
t Sewer...........  
—————— 
t Mun. Pol. Bldg.  
* School...........  
——— 
t Hol. W. R. R.
Stock......... 
Water Works  
t Water Works....  
. —— —-— 
t Gas Electric.  
Total Gross Debt, 
Less Sinking Funds and Railroad Stock. )
Municipal Sinking Fund......  
Water Bonds Sinking Fund... 
| Hol. W. R. R. Stock at par..  
—— 
Net City Debt..............  Serials.
* Sinking Funds. |
Year. Total Valuation Abatements Net Valuation
 ............ 
 ............  ............  
$ 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  

Average Net Valuation for  
Limit for Municipal Indebtedness.

  of ............ 
Entire City Debt.............. 
Less Exempted Debt...........  .

——————  

Borrowing Capacity Nov. 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
EXHIBIT D. |
Showing Bonds issued and paid in and decrease in Gross
Debt.
December Gross Bonded Debt, 
Bonds Issued in  .
Date Issued. Rate Net Years Purpose Amount
Rate
June   Highways, 
June   Sidewalks,  
June   Sewers,  
June   PLC. Eq.,  
June  F. DA. E,,  
June   St. F. Mach.,  
June   Isol. Hospital,  
June   Tuberculosis Hospital,  
June  Elm Street School,  
June  New High School,  
June   Central Engine House,  
November  Infantile Paral. Epidemic, 
Average Rate, Total, 
Date Issued. Bonds Paid in  .
August Municipal  
April  Municipal  
April Municipal  
April Municipal  
March  Municipal  
July Municipal  
May  Municipal  
May  €— Municipal  
April Municipal  
October  Municipal  
June  Municipal  
June  Municipal  
November  Municipal  
June  Municipal  
June Municipal  
June  Municipal  
March  Municipal  
March Municipal  
March  Municipal  
July  Municipal  
———— 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
EXHIBIT D.—Continued.
May  School 
September  School  
April School  
April  School  
September School  
May  School  
April  School  
—————— 
May  Sewer  
August  Sewer  
April Sewer  
May  Sewer  
March  Sewer  
March  Sewer  
———— .—s 
April  Park  
May  Park  
Niarch  Park  
Nay  Park  
———— 
December  Gas Elec.  
November Gas Elec.  
April Gas Elec.  
September  Gas Elec.  
April  Gas Elec.  
April  Gas Elec.  
April  Gas Flec.  
March  Gas Elec.  
February Gas Elec.  
May  Gas Elec.  
November Gas Elec.  
———— 
June  S@  *School  
June Sch. P. B.  
July Water Works  
July  H. W. R. R.  
November Omo. Relief  
————  
Net Gross Debt, 
Net Decrease in Gross Debt,  
Total, 
*Paid by Sinking Fund.

 
SEEMATMIONNPOSONMARNRSHONAHENONOY
ESS SIRGSAESSYSVSSSIRSSARSGSS

aS:  * .
Ss CD aAg   reer anaraararaar  s
os $a)
Z- os “CrOroent Dew nownn  iN
o  S*-RBESZRSSSTARSSERRSSSRA
C  CEUOKANANNANANA eae
mo Og" @&
Sw
  DHnNDonpor MHONNAMNM DS
es FRAGARRSAFTESFARSRETBA
SH PAS RRR ECON TMMMMAMANMAM
Qa *

MINMNSAMAASMHONNEKGSG
-SSSEBS  SR  SRR RR ES
£  Orroene re tn nO) OO Om
  ARRFERSRESSASSRFSEFEUS
& ANGKEAAHRAANASRAAARE AWN
a TEE Go SEx SAS Rtnew sr ex
c YVEGNH ZERFTHARSRH ENR RSH ARH
D Born Socoonn sition snr nr 
s aa th +H Perwno o
. aAOWH Bath —
g SIESSRRIERARSRHRERSSZIAA
Pg Sisesuaeseg sass ags
  He"RBZCARAZRAZRSERESSAARAR
$  aS“SHSaeEeP oR SE SENS   ZtA
  EVNRESEKSRNETSSRESSRSSSSES
O  ZLANANAN  MD MO OS ON mt ep wl)
x ABoao  ec S
: pBRSSsesseseesesesses
eS CRRA BRRARERRRRSERSZSERR
Sas Se NANAK RR Teen oeaAa
 HAEZELSRERSCSRSRAS SEC SYER ES
  EKEZEERSEAARESESBARESESSONA
OSs  or |
: &
fx] gg SSITSSLSKPRSRERERRESeeaas
  SSZRSERBRFSSRERZERASHS
xt Sigman wontwmownwwnweaenrr  
RP  FERSSRSRESSRASRSERSTABESR
ma §y FEW ABRESR HR HOCHOERHARSCAS
 Be  GHEESSRESN SASS Nees ss x
— FAR SRSA ANNAN ARR RRR RSS

a    S
BO sRESSLAFSSSFRARSRESRRF
  Emoornnornnttrornns rn
ey  nanan nn nae Benen en nn
)
  zo
ge
 
e és
  wd
se av
 of
a” re
fg &
ee
&
P NeA Sh SC HO Im  ws ONSSHSRHKERSAKBDSBBAREY
g PENH ETERAASKERSHRADAAS
a SEP ORE SH Er KT oONr er Ar eng ne
CamyenmnacknmrernnrneaAQnnrnan 
PSN SERRAESARHRAKAASS STS
HIS GAHGEggscandn Codon NaN He
- ANNAN
  Seraunnge

‘ B
Bas  SxNanwnon
  x) OS
fs
Tirso neacennm
TOE EEER EER ELE RSSZESSS
SKLEKEEKKKKC KEL LCL SSLKE
he ceoeee oe oe ee

eekacte ew tne caoaec ate aomasaneunn N
BOESN AR SCKRMASERRR SESH ESERNESSTS
§ “FA mM MMANANANAANNAAAAAA
os  cz)
Z yeu LENE IRS eH HTONne nm
 sseZSSEKZREZSERASSASSRARRSRSBS
eg NANANANANANAAAN
eu Os

  see neon mwatresconoeonrrnrtezrnnm
e SESEERRR ZEN EZSERSSSESZSRBERSE B
el ea En ew ee

SmMeoerennwnnsaracanneas ae)
 eSXETAURRSSSMHSESRERENSS AES
OM KEN roescoNntOoOxtONMeN Sarrk
AZAX SHR SHFRRAZALSSSROSER
HEH Cea nmrCAatenennesecrnronwnwsced
eoDnmaoocwmn nate eyes Ne ZL seorrewns
ZREHRREFSZSEFEALSRCZESIEZ ER
San Heong mhmtnaenNariaaet hes aans
go Tt RRB RE NANANANAAA AAA
Sodom fo Soanmnr tet HH Os es ACM AB NMS COR
BETO ERRESRZZSERTREECAARE ESS
 Nek Nom ret eres ee
et ZeCRZARESERESESKREEERESS
ey ARAURAMANKR GCSES SCS SMeEnhentrtseocexte
Suk BESEZRERSRAR EZ ET EZES OR LE
od  oe ovr ef  oe fe SF SS  met
S* RR XSERFR EER CRZSCRESASSERSKZSER
oP)
FQSESSSSESSSSSESEESEER
my CSSSS SST SSRZARRSTSARAH RRS
PESOKZCNK MO ENK RAN mas SasRo as
 CF ERASGRFRAFZRESESRAEERARBAR ES
 SEKSMHARHRASREZEMKAICRNSH ES
 Gm NANANAN NAN NN AN OOM OOO OS

.  Lo pe)
Smynorwonsetrytaeanoretronn  SRSRBRARRARKLERRTERERRES
Sismoerenrcoaomnse ner onmeanacr ;
| FZESZRISSASR ASTER REEL EHEB
[ ANNEHEMONAMNEEMANSMAANAA MASS
EN EEREMASCHTEESEREERSHEH SLASH
c -
NSS Hh HN ae Od  CG wy SN  Tre KR
 PAS SBS KSSESSESRNRKRZZEGESARH
a i
||
O cooeoecosecese coco
— SSBESZQSSRSSSSSSSESESLZERZSR
aw Ce . . .
an ono OMHMOOOOOCSCrRKRARRRR OOH KH
neeeenee ee
{x
  OOme ON SHKCHAOM +
E SULSSSSATSESFTSAARVSITS
 Aad aD aD aD NN Ww tH OS OD
 pe me
o. we
tee
oe  ecoeonwononnrnn ro 
a  SSSERESRSERREB SKE SES
vo .  e
a om
  we
“  .
  Re NwMSCNTAH NMDNMNMYOSO
. ES BAMADNBRESRANDUMONMBDOKS
pon  a
SRSASSEESSBSSSESSSLSRA |
uD NN Nes  is Ss oD un ae SiON
BEM SRS STAR SS SSRERE SIRENS
  imo mona os Oeste KE OOK eA
usBRAN DANTON KO OOD
HERB ZS ZAERSERERAT ZR ESAS
Tel Noncas Ha MYON ONN OM SH
-RSRRSSSSSSSSESESSSERSEBSESSESSE
c MAN wowaA cS  oz) reopwowve
SSRSRSSFSSFLSFSRESRRSR IAG
SwIQVroOeOAaonroeeateewAMarenrntnannr
O  re oe en ae ote nn cod So
SSS SPF IE REGGE REESE KSHEEBKSSSS
(e)
A, .
SSESSSSSSSSSSSSLSSUARASS
ah Sm mH om) tt met et tod
 DH OHO DD SRERSSSSSE SPOBSOSAAaa
Peee ne ne ne neeeee

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
EXHIBIT F.
Showing Surplus of Assets over Liabilities.
; Assets Remunerative and Realizable
City of Holyoke, Water Works. .......... 
Gas and Electric Light Plant Investment AcCount ok en  
Holvoke Westfield Railroad Stock ac par...  

Total... o............................ 
Entire Net Debt) ....... ................  
Surplus of Assets of Remunerative and Realizable Properties over Intire Debt......... 

Unremunerative Properties.
City Hall Annex...........................  
School Houses............ ....    
Fire Engine Houses................. 
Parks... 
Playgrounds...  ...  
City Farm...  ... 
City Barn...  ... 
Tuberculosis Hospital. .................. ..  
Hillside Hospital, Jarvis Ave................  
Land...  ... ene  
Surplus of Real Property over Funded Debt... 

N. B.—-The Gas and Electric Department pays from its
net earnings, the interest and maturing bonds on the Gas and
Electric Department.

The Holyoke Westfield Railroad Stock pays dividend or about  over the interest and maturing bonds
on the City Debt incurred in the purchase of the stock.

The Water Department pays from its earnings the interest, Sinking Fund requiremens and maturing bonds on the
Water Debt and yearly tax to the City of about .
Interest on City Debt Direct................ 
Dividend on Remunerative Properties........  
Amount for Interest to be Raised by Taxation, 

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
BUDGET OF  .
Showing Total Appropriations from Taxation
also
Estimated and Actual Receipts.
Transfers Estimated Actual
from Gen.

Departments. Appropriation Receipts Receipts Receipts
Alleys. ..................  ...   .
ASS€SSOTS......  OOOO  Lobee
Board of Health...........    
Board Pub. Wks., salaries... ......... Le   ey
Board Pub. Wks., expense. DOO.O ... Lee be    
Mayor's Salary........... .........ne 
Mayor’s Expenses......... ......... De      
Mayor’s Cont. Unclassified, .........  n
City Clerk, salaries... ....  ... ae
City Clerk, expenses.......  ... Linens
City Clerk, vital statistics,  ...  ..........
City Clerk, elections....... ce 
City Treasurer, salaries....   
City Treasurer, expenses.  ... Lee n  
City Auditor, salaries......  ... nee
City Auditor, expenses..... fee neeae
Tax Collector, salaries..... Lee ee.
Tax Collector, expenses. ... .....  fee  
City Solicitor, salaries. ....  
City Solicitor, expenses. ...  ...     
Sealer W. M., salary..... .... ..    
Sealer W. M., expenses...  ...   ,

City Messenger, salaries...  ee

City Messenger, expenses. ...... ..  nee
Licensing Board, salaries... ......  cole  ,
Licensing Board, expenses.. ......... 
Clerk of Commit., salary...  ZOO. ... een
City Engineer... ......... BO ...     
City Hall Rental..........          
City Property......... ..    
Conscience Money........ coc   ce   betes  
Commonwealth of Mass....  ......... wee   
Corporation Tax..........         
Dividends Hol. W.R.R. ........   
Fire Department..........  .........  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
BUDGET OF  t}—Continued.
Forestry...... ..........  .........  
Fuel.................-.-.  ...  
tHighways and Bridges....   
Gas Electric Dept....... ...      
Insp. of Buildings.........  .........      ee
Insp. of Elevators......... fcc      
Insp. of Wiring........... .........  ...e     acces
Interest Daily Balances.... ......... ......... 
Interest on Taxes......... cc. .e   ce   
Liquor Licenses........... ...   ce 
Lighting.................   ..........     
Milk Station.............  ...  ce  
Military Aid............. ..........  
Mother’s Aid.............  we.eae  
National Bank Tax.......  ... fee    
Overlayings  ... .. .........  cen
Playgrounds..............  ..... ..  coc  ee
Parks.................... ......... ..........
Police...................   
Public Library............ .........  J...    
Relief................... .........  
Schools, salaries........... .........  Joc. ce ce    
Schools, supplies..........   ..........  .  .
*Soldiers’ Relief..........   .....ee  
State Aid................   ..........    
Sewers...................  . 
Sidewalks....... .. ...  . 
Street Watering.......... ......... ..........
. Sundry Licenses..........  fee    
Sidewalk Assessments... ..  ...     
Sewer Assessments........ .... ..--  vee ees  
*Vocational School........ ... ..  fee 
Tuberculosis Hospital.....  . 
Water Department Bonds
and Interest............     ce   
Water Rents.............  .....  ... ce  
Balance Planning Board... .........   ee
Bal. in General Receipts... .......   eeaee  
$  
TPlus St. R. R. Corportaion and Excise Tax.
*Plus Receipts.

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
BUDGET OF  —Continued.
Supplementary Budget.
Removal Police and Fire Alarm Boxes............. 
Purchase of Land, Glen Street Extension...........  
Purchase of Land, Clinton Ave. Extension.........  
Playground Equipment...............    
Fire Department Equipment.....................  
Street Flushing Machine...................... ..  
; —————— 
Fixed Charges.
Interest, City Debt...  ...   
Interest, Temporary Loans................. 
Interest, Hol. West. R. R. Debt. ...............  
Interest, Water Debt............. ....... ..  
Payments, City Debt............................  
Payments Hol. West. R. R. Debt...............  
Payments, Water Debt....................... --  
Payments, Sinking Fund................... 
—————-— 
Gas and Electric Light Plant.
Gas Electric, Depreciation.....................  
Gas Electric, Interest...................... ...  
Gas Electric, Bonds...................  
Gas Electric, General Receipts..................  
Gas Electric, Extensions.......................  
Gas Electric, General.......................... Balance of Receipts
Class B.
Current Expenses......  Raised by Tax......... 
Fixed Charges......... General Receipts......  
$  
Tax Levy for  .
State Tax............ Tax Coll. Warrant..... 
State High. Tax.......  
County Tax...........  
Non.-Res. Bank Tax...  
City Appropriation.....  
Overlayings  ......  
$ 
Total Revenue.
Tax Collector’s Warrants..........       . 
Additional Tax Collector’s Warrant................   
General Receipts... ......... ce    
Holyoke Street Railway Excise Tax................... .. 
Dog Tax...  ... en    
: 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
CASH TRANSACTIONS.
City Treasurer’s Office.
From December  to November .
Treas. and
Assistants’ Cost per
Year Receipts Payments Total Salaries      OS  ,  OS .   .  . .  .  .O  ,.  —- 
 .     .  .  . . , .  .  .  .   
 .       .  ,  . .    .O   
  Years   
Dec. . 
Dec. . 
$ ,  
$  

; REPORT OF CITY TREASURER. ot]

In the year the City of Holyoke began to issue Serial Bonds.

In  the Legislature of Massachusetts made it obligatory for all Cities and Towns in the
Commonwealth to adopt the Serial Payment Plan.

Following is list of Bonds issued by the City of Holvoke since  showing the interest payments on said Bonds by both plans and the difference in favor of the Serial Plan.
Purpose Date Amount Years Rate Interest Interest Interest

Co Net Sk. Fund Serial Gain

Schools  May.   
Municipal June,  
Gas E. Dec.   
Gas E. Oct.  
Gas E. Nov.  
Sewers May.  
Municipal May,   
Municipal August,  LOTS
Niunicipal March   S. 
Schools Sept., ASS  
Gas FE. April BS. 
Gas E. Sept.   
Municipal August  
Schools Sept.,  
Sewers August,  LOO    
Municipal April, . 
Municipal April,   
Schools April, QYOOO   
Parks April,   
Gas E. April, I-    
Municipal April,  
Sewers April,   
Sewers May,  
Parks, March,   
Schools April,  
Gas E. April, . . 
Municipal March,   
Municipal July,   
Schools Sept.,  
Sewers March,   
Parks March,  , 
Gas E. April,   
Municipal May,   
Municipal May,  
Schools  May,  
Parks May,  

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Rate Interest Interest Interest

Purpose Date Amount Yrs.  Net Sk. Fund Serial Gain
Gas E. March,  
H.&.W. R. July, . 
W. Wks. July,  
Municipal April,  
Schools April,  
Municipal October,  
Gas E. Feb.,  
Municipal June,  
Municipal June,  
M. P. B. June,  
Municipal Nov.,  
Municipal June,  
Municipal June,  
Municipal June,  
Gas E. June,  
Municipal March,  
Municipal March,  
Municipal March,  
Municipal July,  
Sewers March,  
Gas E. Nov.,   
H.& B. June,  
Municipal June,  
Municipal June,  
Sidewalks June,  
Sewers June,  
Municipal Nev.,  

$ $   

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.  
SCHEDULE OF REAL ESTATE.
Valued by the Board of Assessors in  .
School Buildings and Land.
School Houses.
High School—Pine, Sargeant, Bh and
Hampshire Streets.................  
Vocational School—Sargeant, Pine and Bh
Streets... ce   eens  
Highland School—Lincoln, Nonotuck, Waldo
and Allyn Streets................ 
West Street School—West, Pequot and Samosett Streets...  ... 
Joseph Metcalf School—Northampton Street..  
Bridge Street School ...................... 
Lawrence School—Maple and Appleton Streets  
William Whiting School—Chestnut Street....  
Elmwood School—Carlton and South Streets..  
Hamilton Street School—Hamilton and Park
Streets...    
Elm Street School—ElIm Street..............  
South Chestnut Street School—Sargeant and
Chestnut Streets....... ..... 
East Dwight Street School—East, Dwight
and Center Streets...................  
Park Street School—Park and Hamilton Sts...  
Kirtland School—Sargeant Street............  
Sargeant Street School—Sargeant and Bridge
StreetS.      
Springdale School—Main and Papineau Streets  
Ingleside School—Springfield Road..........  
Nonotuck Street School—Nonotuck Street....  
Ewingville School—School Street............  
West Holyoke School— West Holyoke
(Wooden)...  ... cc—
Smiths’ Ferry School—Smiths’ Ferry.........  
$ 

.  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
Engine Houses and Land.

Central Engine House—Maple Street........ 
South Holyoke Engine House—Main Street...  
Highland Engine House—Hampden Street....  

Elmwood Engine House—South and Charles
| Streets...  ...    
Mt. Tom Engine House—Canal Street. .....  
$ 

Miscellaneous.

City Hall—High and Dwight Streets......... 
City Hall Annex and Police Building.........  
City Farm, House and Barn, Ingleside.......  

City Yard, Barn, Workshop and Sheds, Commercial Street..............  eevee  
Tuberculosis Hospital and Pumping Station...  
Hillside Hospital, Jarvis Ave................  
$ 

Gas and Electric Light Plant.
Gas and Water Gas Buildings, Lyman Street.. 
Gas Holder and Boiler House, Canal Street...  
Gasometer, Bridge Street.................  
Filectric Light Station, Cabot Street..........  
, 
Parks.

Hampden Park, Hampden, Maple, Chestnut
and Dwight Streets.................... 
Prospect Park, Prospect Street..............  

Canonchet Park, Bowers, Samosett, West and
Pequot Streets... .........    
Hamilton Park, Sargeant Street.............  
Germania Park, Bridge, Park and Jackson Sts.,  
Ranger Park, Appleton and Suffolk Streets...  

REPORT OF CITY TREASURER. 

Ewing Park, Appleton, Pleasant and Dwight
Streets...    
Coghlan Park, Crescent and Park Streets... ..  
Elmwood Park, EIlmwood........../........  
Springdale Park, Main Street...............  
Laurel and Willow Street Triangle...........  
Highland Park............ ..... ..........  
$ 

Land.
Jefferson Street........ ... .... 
Pearl Street and Madison Avenue re  
Jefferson Street and Madison Avenue .......  
East Jefferson Street and North Madison Ave.  
Madison Avenue and Pearl Street.. ........  
East Side of Pearl Street................... ,

Madison Avenue and Pearl Street...........  

East and West Side Pleasant Street, West of
Dingle...  ... 
Gravel Pit (Ingleside)......................  
Gravel Pit (Springdale)......................  
Cemetery (Smiths Ferry)...................  
$ 

Playgrounds. ,

Samosett, Winter and Pequot Streets......... 
Hampden, East and West Oak Street........  
Cabot, Maple, Hampshire and Chestnut Sts...  
Summer and Adams Streets.................  
Carleton Street......  ...    
$ 

  REPORT OF CITY TREASURER.
, Summary.
School Buildings and Land. ................ 
Engine Houses and Land...................  
Miscellaneous......... .......... 
Parks...  ... 
Land...... 
Playgrounds...... ...........     
$  
Gas and Electric Light Plant.... ...........  
$  
Respectfully submitted,
PIERRE BONVOULOIR,
City Treasurer.

I have examined the books of the City Treasurer, and I
hereby certify that the above report of cash receipts, authorized expenditures, ledger balances and cash on hand and in
banks is correct.

WALTER W. EATON,
Certifed Public Accountant.

BOARD OF HEALTH,  .
Frank A. Woods, M. D., Chairman,
: Patrick E. Hurley, M. D., Secretary,
William J. Powers, M. D.
. CLERK.
Elizabeth G. Shea.
AGENT AND HEALTH OFFICER.
J. Sidney Wright.
SANITARY INSPECTORS.
Daniel J. Mahoney,
Edward J. Teahan,
Joseph M. Toepfert.
INSPECTOR OF MILK AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett, Ph. G.
Edward O’Connell, Assistant.
PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
Frank L. Avery.
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS AND PROVISIONS.
Thomas J. Shinkwin, M. D. V.
BACTERIOLOGIST.
J. Joseph Carroll, M. D.
SOCIAL WORKER. |
Anna I. Burke.
TUBERCULOSIS SANATORIUM.
Margaret G. Healy, Supt. |

REPORT OF THE
To His Honor, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City
of Holyoke, Mass.

Gentlemen: The thirty-sixth annual statement of all
matter pertaining to the Board of Health for the year ending
November  is hereby submitted for your consideration.

ORGANIZATION.

The members of the Board of Health met for organization
the first Monday of February, and elected the following
officers: Frank A. Woods, M. D., Chairman, Patrick E. Hurley, M. D., Secretary, William J. Powers, M. D.

Appended are the reports of the Health Officer, Inspector
of Plumbing, Inspector of Milk, Inspector of Meat and Slaughtering, Bacteriologist and Sanatorium for Tuberculosis.

Regular weekly meetings of the Board have been held
and special meetings as occasion required during the year.

Respectfully Submitted
FRANK A. WOODS,
P. tk. HURLEY,
WILLIANI J. POWERS.
Board of Healtn.

Report of the Health Officer
To the Honorable, the Board of Health:

Gentlemen: respectfully submit the following detailed
report of the Board of Health carried on under the direction
of the Health Officer for the year ending November .

Besides the routine work of the office which has been car. ried on as usual the reports of the Plumbing, Milk and Sanitary Inspectors are annexed.

The department has been exdingly fortunate in having
subordinate employees who were loyal and who gave willing
and enthusiastic service at all times.

Your attention is again called to the urgent need of nurse
for this Department.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE A.

Still Death
Deaths Births Total Rate
 ............. 
 ................ ..  .....  ................  ........... 
 ...... ....... ..  ...    .............  
IDOL...  .  .......... .... ...  ..... ... ..  ]
 ........ ..  ...  ... ...  ... 
 ....... ....    ...  .............. ..  ....... ... . ........ ..........  
D ]...  , —: ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  .. ..  ...  ... ...  ....... ..  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.  
TABLE K.

Showing the interment of those dying in the city and those
brought here for burial during  (Stillbirths included.)
Calvary...  cent     
Elmwood.....  ...     neces  
Forestdale.  ...         
St. Jerome... cc te        
Brightside.  ...   eens  
South Hadley Falls................. .. ............  
Out of town, (otherwise)......... ......  .  
Local burials...  ...         cease BT 
Brought to Holyoke for burial........................  
Sent from Holyoke for burial.........................  
Total number of burial permits issued.................  

TABLE L.
Showing contagious diseases as reported by months.

€sEs  
Diptheria....  
Scarlet Fever,  
Measles.....  
W.Cough.... 
Chick. Pox...  
Typhoid Fev. 
Mumps.....  
Memb. Croup  
Tuberculosis  
Septic Throat  
Cer. Spinal...  
Oph. Neon..  
Poliomyelitis.  

 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
, TABLE M.
Showing contagious diseases by wards.

  Total
) Diptheria...............  
' Scarlet Fever............  
, Measles... ............  
Whooping Cough........ #O  
Chicken Pox............  
Typhoid Fever..........  Memb. Croup...........  
Tuberculosis............  
Mumps...............-.  
Cerebro Spinal..........  
Septic throat............  
Oph. Neon..............  
Poliomyelitis............  
Total..............  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
POLIOMYELITIS.
(Infantile Paralysis.)

In the epidemic of Poliomyelitis which during the past.
summer originated in New York City and spread over the
eastern states, perhaps no city suffered more than Holyoke
in proportion to its population. It is true that quarantine and
other methods of handling the situation may have varied somewhat with these difficult places but unless our present conception of the epidemiology of Poliomyelitis it is hardly conceivable that this variation in methods should have been the sole
cause of such wide difference in prevalence ia the different
places concerned.

We had reported from August  th to November  th,
one hundred fifteen cases with twenty-six deaths; all but
seven cases were removed to the Isolation Hospital—four of
the cases were moribound when reported. |

An emergency loan of  was made—of this amount
$  has been expended to date, with several bills for
groceries and physicians not yet approved. Disbursements
have been made to the following named persons:

ON ACCOUNT OF ANTERIOR POLIOMYELITIS.
Kelly Bros...  ... ces 
Jos. Gauthier...  ... 
A. D. Durocher............    
N. Bouchard..........  ees  
Mazairz Ostrowski...............  
Jas. Griffin... 
Geo. V. Ross Co...  ...  ...    
J. A. Labrecque..........     
J. E. Paradis...   
B.A. St.Jean..    
J. E. Paradis......... ... 
J. E. Paradis........  
Sigdy Bros...  ...     nes  
F. W. Sigdy.....   ce eens  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH .

Elmwood Market....... ... .. 
G. H. Boehm............... 
F. L. Greaney...  ...    
V. Ducharme...............      
L. J. Becker...  ... 
Bresnahan O’Brien. ................. ... 
J. J. Sullivan...     
A. Wilson...  oe 
J. I. Langlois...  ... 
H.C. Schloerb. .........  ... 
O. Tessier...     
J. A. Kisiel. ee.  
J. A. Risiel.    
Halpern Bros....... .....  ees  
N. Mercure...  ...    
Dreikorn’s Bakery......... .... .. 
H.C. Bork...  
J. Herman...  ... 
F. Jrizaszek.... oe  
Harry Kuenzel........... ..  
FE. Belanger.........  |
M. J. Norris.  ...   
Roy Pepin....... 
A. J. Wildner..    
A. J. Wildner..     
A. J. Wildner...  ...    
D. B. Kelton........  
N. E. Howes.  ... ees  
A. Rayner...  ... ces  
L. Cloutier Son...  ...    
Shea McKenna.................  cc    
FE. Messier...  ...ee  
Enghs Bakerv......  ...  ees  
C. Rheaume...  ...    
H. Perfsky ... ...  (oe   
T. J. Perrault............  ...  
D. J. Donoghue... .........   

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. aol
DEATHS BY SEX AND AGE FROM JANUARY  TO
DECEMBER .
Males Females Total
Under] Day... .. ....  
lto days. ...................  to days..... ............... dayvstolweek........ ... to weeks.................... +)  to  weeks ............ ..... II +) ,
  weeks tol month............. to months....... ...........  to months........ ..... .... to months. ... ....... ....  to  months...................  to months........ .........  
l year... .......... ... ee.  years..  ...MI years... .... ......  ... ee...  years.. ...................  
otoQ  years ............. ...... to vears.. ................ to years...................  to years................... to years................... to years................... to years ........ ......... to years................. to years...................  to years.............. .... to years................... to years........... .. .... to years................... to vears......... .. ... By)
  to years................. to years................... to years............... ...  to years................... to years................... —— —— —
 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
| TABLE G.
, Showing the deaths in each ward in the city and in the
Various institutions during the various months:
| Wardl......  
Ward  ......  
Ward  ......   
Ward  ......  
Ward  ......  
Ward ...... 
Ward ......  
City Hosp...  
Prov. Hosp...  
Brightside...  
| City Farm...  
Sanatorium.. 
Bev.-Kel. H..  
Harkins Hme.  
Mt. Marie...  
Mt.Sc.Vin..  
| Hm. Age Ppl y)
Iso. Hosp....   
Non-residents  
Still-births.  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.  
TABLE H.
Show ing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city
’ and in the various institutions.

Ward  ...     sees  
Ward csv...  
Ward  ...  cence   eens  
Ward  .....     eevee...  
Ward  ...     teres. §l
Ward  ....     nnas  
Ward    et eever .  
Total...      see..  
City Hospital. ...... ... ... ce          
Providence Hospital. .............       
Brightside. .....  ... cc       .  
City Farm...  ...       BS
Sanatorium..............     eet    rr  $l
Beaven-Kelly Home.............  ...  ce    
Harkins Home.................     eae  
Mt. Marie..........   neces  
Me. St. Vincent...........     teens  
Home Aged People... ..........   nee  
Isolation Hospital... ..........  ...      
Total.  ...      ee  
Total number occurring in wards and institutions.......  
Non-residents. ..............  cececec .  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.

. TABLE J. .
Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during the

- year  .

Holyoke. ...  ...      
Massachusetts............  ...           ee.  )
Other States............  ...        
Ireland.........      wee  
Canada.....  ...    eens  
England.......  ...   cette     QT
Germany...  ...   t neerecesses Ol
AUStria.. oe     t   eteaas  
Scotland...  ...  ...           
Russia...     eens  
France...  ...  ce     een  
Italy. nee een   nee es  
Sweeden..    eens ]
Gre.   teen teen nee  
Wales...     ees  
Norway... oc een tenes ]
Poland. ...  ...     es  
Nova Scotia...           
Unknown...   eens  
Total... ce          .  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.  
P. A. Mahoney.............. ...     
A. Hebert...  ... occ eens  
J. Doyle Jr....     
Jas. Tancrede.......     
J. Heinritz.. ce    
J. Heinritz.     
Curley Drug Shop..............   
Curley Drug Shop...........  ... 
' Cleveland’s Pharmacy...................  
J. R. Smith...     
John Quigley...  ...   
Flynn Drug Co...  ...    
Wm. B. Dowd... ...... ..  
Geo. F. O'Connor...  ...ee  
Serena Chemical Co.........  ...   
Oakdale Pharmacy............... ce  .  
Curran Bros.......      
A. F. Glesmann....  ..      
A. R. Vincent.  ...    .
S.A. Flynn... ce    
W. E. Martin...  ...  ...      
Elliots Pharmacy............   eae  
Tel. Pub. Cor... nee  
A. W. Smith Drug Co.............  
Millaine Bros...  ...  ce  es  
Elliots Pharmacy.........     
D.M. Foley Mkt. Co............  
A. Roberts...  ...   ce eens  
L. Cote... eens  
Providence Hospital...............  
N. E. Tel. Tel. Co...  ...  .. ..  
Shea McKenna...................  
Flynn Drug Co....  ...  ...    
M. Frederichs..............     eens  
Franklin Restaurant.........  ...  eeu  
Ross Bray. .......  ... eens  
Hol. Baking Co...  ...  ...        

. REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
M. Machnick................   
M. G. Geissler......    
Gas Electric Co...  ...    
N. E. T. &. T. Co... ee.  
Dr. E. P. Bagg...  
Dr. J. J. Carroll...  ...  ,  
Dr. I. N. Kilburn............. .....  ...  
Dr. E. J. Miller .............................  
Dr. J. P. Shine. ...........    
Dr. W. J. Greaney ............. 
Dr. E. P. Hand...............  ...  
Dr. D. I. Beaupre............. .... ..  
Dr. F. S. Lasinzky........... ... ... .....  
Dr. L. L. Hoff...  ...    
Dr. J. B. Bigelow................ .. .... 
Dr. Wm. M. St. Georges... .......... ...  
Dr. H. R. Sackett............ ...  
Dr. R. F. Morrison.............  ...  
Dr. W. H. Cheverette...................  
Dr. R. F. Lexton.......... ...    
Dr. E. A. Knowlton............. 
Dr. I. H. Farr...  ... 
Dr. C. W. Bouvier............     
Dr. J. L. Bauman.................. .....  
Dr. H. E. Lynch............  .. ......  
Dr. J. Hughes...  ... ..     
| Dr. H. K. Shine.............  ...     
Dr. G. H. Clark...  ... 
Dr. D. F. Donoghue.....................  
Dr. A. H. Monty.........  
Dr. T. A. Dillon...  ...    
Dr. McAusland...........  ... eens  
Dr. H. R. Wheat.......  ...    
Dr. R. E. Cleary...  ...    
Dr. E. D. Warren............. ce   
Dr. J. J. McCabe.....  ...      
Dr. H. E. Chaput...........       

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.  
Dr. F. H. Allen......... .. ... ... 
Dr. W. P. Ryan...  ...   
Dr. T. E. Cavanaugh... ................ ..  
G. D. Henderson, M. D............ ..  
Roy Pepin...  ...  ...   
Persky.    ees  
G. E. Dept...  ... ee. 
F.G. Bissel...  ...  ...    
Hol. Infant Hygiene................. .....  
O’Connor’s Laundry................... ..  
J. P. Hobert.......  ... ..  
J. B. Shea.....   .  
C.R. Alger. .....    
A. L. Codaire Co...  ... 
Special Officers............... ... ..... 
Nurses...     Len  
Miss Crawford.  ...         
School Nurses................... ..... 
Hugh Kelley.......... ... ce      
Katherine E. Lee..............  ...  
Harold Hogan......  ...     

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT. ‘
The following is the financial statement of the Board of
Health for the year ending November .
Board of Health—
Appropriation........................... 
Additional appropriation,..... ... ... ..  
$ 
Salaries...  ...    
Bills—
General expenses................... .. 
Contagious disease...............  
Tuberculosis, general...................  
Tuberculosis, dispensary..................  
Milk department..................  
Total salaries and bills...................  
Balance transferred to general receipts......  
Holyoke Sanatorium— 
Appropriation.........................+.. 
Additional appropriation.................  
$ 
Salaries........       
Bills...     
Total salaries and bills................... 
Balance transferred to general receipts.....  
Received from all sources on account of Board of
Health and returned to general receipts..... 
Received from all sources on account of Holyoke
Sanatorium and returned to general receipts 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.  
Belvdere Cash Market....... .. ...    
Belvdere Cash Market. ......................  
E. Gauthier...  ces  
Thos. Epstein............       
Mazairz Ostrowski............ 
Mazairz Ostrowski.......... ce    
Baldwin Bros...  ...  cc 
Baldwin Bros. ...........       
F.A. Foley...  ene  
Korontzis Kriakos........... ..   Gelineau Son. .....   
Wm. Gagnon Son.......       
Wm. Gagnon Son.......  ...    
S.Gloth.  ...     
Long’s Grocery House...................  
J. F. Kennedy.........     
J. F. Kennedy......... ..     
Max Heinicke............ 
Chicago Cash Market...................  
I. Kaplinsky...  ... 
I. Kaplinsky...  ... 
Gilbert Market...  ... ,
A. Menard...  ...      
A. Menard. ......... cc    
A. Menard.......     
J. H. Fitzsimmons....................  
J. H. Fitzsimmons...............    
H. Schooner...  ...  ...     
Hol. Baking Co...  ... 
Holyoke Public Market...................... ,
H. J. Huot...  ...    
H. J. Huot...  ...    
H. J. Huot...  cc es  
M. W. Deyo...........    
Legrand Ice Co...  ... 
Chas. A. Lawrence............ cence  
E. Beauregard....  ...   ce    

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
C. G. Burnham...  ...  
Collins and Murray............... eae  
Ikimer Amend..............       
Eimer Amend... ........       
Ikimer Amend...............     
Hol. City Hospital................. ....  
Hol. City Hospital..................-  
Mansir Printing Co.............-.   
Parfitt Furniture Co............. ...  
B. Malkin.   
Prentiss-Brooks Co...      
P. J. Wall....  
Groise Bros...  Lo nes  
M. J. Laporte..............     
G. E. Russell... ees  
H. D. Dougherty Co...................  
H. D. Dougherty Co... ..............  
C. B. Sampson... ......  
E. D. Wells Co...    nee  
Jas. J. Kane...  ...    
Conway Sanitary Store................... 
, Jos. Gauthier...     
Collins Murray...  ...  
W. B. Whiting Coal Co.............. ...  
McAuslan Wakelin.................-..  
M. Frederichs..............     .  
Bowler Kennedy.............    
Tel. Pub. Co...  ce    
Transcript Pub. Co...........  ...   
Standard Oil Co...    
American Window Cleaning Co................  
J. Lipschiz....    
Jos. A. Delisle....  ...  
Prov. Hospital........... 
Geo. Menard......  ...  
Thos. J. Griffin...  cc  .  
Richardson Wright Co... ............  

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.  
G. Marino......  ...ces 
Preston-Bishop Co............      
Fred Moroni.......... .... 
Fred Moroni........      
H. J. Nash...  ...    
Adleson Bros...........  ...    ees  
Oliver Cournoyer..... .. ...       
P. Peloquin...........  
Hol. Ice Co... 
Geo. Desmarais.............  ... ce     es  
A. Dubuis..........     
Louis Cote ........  ...  ees  
C. Marian...  ... 
A. R. Larose.......... 
A. R. Larose.........  ... ees  
H. J. Nash...  ...    
E. Queneville.........    
Chas. Hebert.......... ....  ...      
A. E. Davieau....  ... 
A. Roberts..... cc ee nae  
H. Lorenz.......... ...      
Bischell Bros..............    
D. I. Pease.......  ne  
Chas. Schoer...  ... 
QO. Trompold......  ... eens  
P. J. Sheehan...  ... 
L. Balckmer.........  ... es  
J.J. Craven...  ... cnn  
J.J. Craven...  ...    
FE. L. Huot...  ...    
M. J. Huot..........  (oe    
) A. D. Huot.........     
J. Carlinsky..    
T. L. Breen...  ...    
T. L. Breen............  ...      
Maziarx Ostrowski...  ...   
Maziarx Ostrowski......... .....  

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
Charpentier Bros......... ... ce   
Hatch Co...    
O’Connor’s Laundry.............     
Hol. Club...  ce    
J. C. Griffin...     
Ross Bray... ..  ...ees  
Bresnahan O’Brien.....................  
Bresnahan O’Brien..................... 
S. Gloth.  ... ce eens  
J. Solin.    
Gas Rlectric Department.:.................  
Gas Electric Department...... ............  
Gas Electric Department........ ..........  
Casper Ranger Construction Co...............  
Casper Ranger Construction Co...............  
Casper Ranger Lumber Co..................  Casper Ranger Lumber Co........... ........  
Casper Ranger Construction Co...............  
Geo. Barnett..........       
Geo. Barnett...........  ...  
Nellie B. Tupper................. 
I. Kaplinsky...  ...    
E. H. Friedrich.......  ... cc    
R. T. Oakes Co...    
Groise Bros...  ...  ce ees  
M. J. Laporte........  ...   eae  
J. F. Kennedy...  ...  ...    
J. H. Fitzsimmons............ ...  
J. Lamb...  ...  ne  
C. F. Sullivan Co...    
John Sweeney...  ...    cc ees  
Stsznpa Bros....  ...    nee    
N. D. Cote...  ne   
Hall’s Dairy .......ee    
W. F. Grady Co... 
W. F. Grady Co...   
Millane Bros.....  ...    

REPORT OF THE

Inspector of Meats and Provisions

To the Honorable, the Board of Health:
Gentlemen:

The following is my report as inspector of Meats and Provisions for the year ending November :
Total inspections, markets.................-..... ..  
Total inspections, fruit stores.......................  
Total number of visits to slaughter house.............  
Total number of cattle slaughtered...................  
Total number of veal slaughtered....................  —.
Total number of swine slaughtered...................  

The following has been condemned as unfit for human
food:
Beef, pounds. Strawberries, baskets.
Pork, pounds. Raspberries, baskets.
Veal, pounds. Blackberries, baskets.
Sausage, pounds. Peaches, baskets.
Lamb, pounds. Cereals, packages.
Liver, pounds. Apples, bushels.

Potatoes, bushels. }

The above does not include articles of food condemned
on account of fires in the following buildings:
Harry Suher, Bridge Street, January .
Barley, pounds. Sugar, pounds.
Tea, pounds. Ham, pounds.
Rice, pounds. Pork, pounds.

Cotfee, pounds.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
, J. E. Cunningham, Appleton Street., August .
Salted Peanuts, pounds.
Cocoa, pounds.
Sugar, pounds.
I have found four veal under weight, killed and stamped
outside of city, which condemned.
Onc veal, unstamped killed outside city, condemned.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS J. SHINKWIN, M. D. V.
Inspector of Meats and Provisions.

Report of the Bacteriologist
To the Honorable, the Board of Health:
Gentlemen: herewith submit my report for the year
ending November .
DIPTHERIA.
Diagnosis Release Total Total
Pos. Neg. Pos. Neg. Cases Cultures
December,  .............  
January,  .......... .. 
February...................  
March..................... |
April....................... 
May.......................  
June.. .................... 
July... .... ...... ........  
August.....................  
September.................. 
October....................  
November.................   
TUBERCULOSIS.
Positive Negative Total
December,  .................  
January,  ...................  
February......... .............  
March...............- -- ---  
April...        
May.............c         
June...........................  
July... Jee  .  
AuguSt................ --. 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
September......................  
Occober................... ....  
November......................  
TYPHOID.
Negative
December,  ................  
January,  ...................  
February...................  
March.................. ..  
April...  ...  
May........  ... ce    ,  
June.....  ...  .  
August.......       
September...................  
October.......    
November.................. ..  
OPTHALMIA.

There were but five smears from the eyes of the new
born examined during the year, and all were found negative.
SUMMARY.

Diptheria...  ...   
Tuberculosis..........  ee      BOS
Typhoid...  ...   nes  
Opthalmia....  ... tee nes  )
 
Respectfully submitted,
J.J. CARROLL, M. D.,
) Bacteriologist.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Expenses incurred on account of Infantile Paralysis to November .

Appropriation..................+. ...... 

Bills...    

Special Officers.............  

Nurses...  ...ee   ne —

Clerical Hire..............   

 

Balance..............        .  

VITAL STATISTICS.

During the year deaths occurred in the city giving a
death rate of per cence per thousand population, excluding deaths of non-residents: our actual death rate is
  per cent per thousand.

| DISEASES DANGEROUS TO PUBLIC HEALTH.

The total number of cases of diseases dangerous to the
public health reported from December  to November  ,
  was of these were ‘‘Poliomyelitis,” from which
there were deaths.

Respectfully submitted,
J. S. WRIGHT,
. Health Officer.

Report of Inspector of Plumbing

To the Board of Health:
Gentlemen:

As Inspector of Plumbing have the honor of submitting the twenty-third annual report for the fiscal year ending
November .

The following table shows to some exteni the amount and
nature of the work:
Water closets put in new buildings...................  
Sinks put in new buildings..........................  
Baths put in new buildings.........................  
. Bowls put in new buildings.........................  
Wash trays put in new buildings.....................  
Urinals put in new buildings.....................  
Traps put in new buildings.........................  
Water closets put in old buildings....................  
Sinks put in old buildings................ ..........  
Baths put in old buildings..........................  
Bowls put in old buildings... ......................  
Wash trays put in old buildings.....................  
Urinals put in old buildings...............  ...  
Traps put in old buildings..........................  
Plumbing permits granted.....................-..  
Plumbing inspections.................. .. +.  
Water tests made...............    eens 
Inspections old and new buildings...................  
Sewer INSPCCLIONS.  ...   
A decided increase is noted in the work of the department
and the city is to be congratulated on its building for the year.
An unusual number of nuisances have been investigated and
abated and such sections of the city as the Board has designated have been cleaned up, as regards privy vaults; closets

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALT H. 
have been installed, connections made with the public sewer
and the city is practically free from vaulcs or cesspools.

Numerous complaints have been investigated and abated
on verbal notice from the inspector and no record has been
made of same.

Three general inspections have been made of the saloons
and the majority have been found to comply to the rules of the
Board of Health.

The decrease in the number of sewer inspections is caused

| bv the laying of lateral sewers from the main to the building
line by the Sewer Department.

In conclusion, desire to thank the Master Plumbers who
have furnished their cars for transportation thereby avoiding
expenses and delay, also the members of the department for

 their courtesy and co-operation.
Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.

REPORT OF THE
Inspector of Milk and Vinegar

To the Board of Health:

Gentlemen: hereby submit my report for the year
ending November .
Total number of licenses granted..................  
Total number granted to stores................ -.  
Total number granted to peddlers.................  
Number granted for sale of oleomargarine...........—  
Money received for distilled water.................  
Paid into City Treasury as fees received......... .. 
Number of quarts of sweet milk sold daily..........  
Number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily.......  
Number of quarts of buttermilk sold daily........  
Number of quarts of cream sold daily...............  
Number of samples tesced, milk. ......... ........  

, Number of samples tested, condensed milk..........  

Number samples tested, vinegar................---  
Number of samples tested, cream..................  
Number samples tested, ice cream.................  
Number samples tested, breast milk................  
Number samples tested, kerosene oil............ ..  
Number of warnings sent.............   
Dairies inspected. .....  ...     
Stores and milk rooms inspected...................  

In conclusion desire to thank the members of the Board
of Health, also my assistant, Mr. Edward O’Connell, for their
courtesy and co-operation.

Respectfully submitted,
DANIEL P. HARTNETT,
Inspector of Milk.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. Y
Pumping Station:
Fuel... eens  
Lighting...  ...  ...     
City property, repairs..............  
| 
Total expense for maintenance............ 
EQUIPMENT ACCOUNT.
(No Replacements.) |
Expended by the Board of Health:
Blankets, bed linen, etc.................... .. 
Kitchen utensils.............. cea  
Tools and implements.....................  
Cabinet, instruments, etc................ 
Electric fans...  ...  ...  te    
Electric flat iron...  ...    
Refrigerator...  ...   ees  
Lineoleum. ........      
$ 
Expended by the Board of Public Works:
City Property:
Storm door, labor, etc................ 
Fire extinguishers, labor, etc..................  
$ 
Total expense for equipment..............  
Construction account........................ 
Expended for shelter.................. 
Balance.............. ses. 
Maintenance.......................... ..... 
Equipment..........      
Construction. ..... ... eens  
Total Expenditures...................... 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
CASH ACCOUNT.

Institution Receipts:
Trustees of Hospitals for Consumptives......... 
Cities and towns...............      

Total... oe  

PER CAPITA.
Total expense for maintenance....... ... 
Number of hospital days............... ....  
Average number of patients per day...........  
Cost per patient per day......... ...........  
Cost per patient per week....................  
ADMISSIONS AND DISCHARGES.

Number of paiients in Sanatorium Nov. 
Number of patients admitted during year...............  
Number of patients treated during year................  
Number of patients discharged apparently arrested.......  
Number of patients discharged, improved...............  
Number of patients discharged, not improved...........  
Number of deaths (moribund on admission)  ...........  
Number of patients in sanatorium Nov. ........  

CONDITION OF PATIENTS ON ADMISSION.
Incipient.........       S§
Moderately advanced............      
Advanced...  ...    nee esse  

NATIVITY OF PATIENTS.

Massachusetts. ......    een  s.  
United States.... cence    

Total natives...  ... ce  es  
AUStra..  cette  tenes  
Canada...  ...  tte tee te eenees.  
Gre... cc ete tence   I

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.  
Treland.    . 
Russia...  ...     

Total foreign. ......  ...     

Total natives...  oe      

Grand total...  ...      

DONATIONS. |

I desire to make grateful acknowledgement to the generous friends of the institution, who have remembered us with
clothing, flowers and reading matter, throughout the year,

| and to all those whose kindly acts have brought happiness
and encouragement to the patients.

In conclusion wish to extend sincere thanks to the members of the Board of Health, Board of Public Works and all
office attaches for their courtesies and co-operation.

To the visiting physicians, am indebted for their kindly
advice and to the assistant nurses am especially grateful
for their faithful and efficient service.

Respectfully submitted,
MARGARET G. HEALY,
Superintendent.

| A
Name Residence Business
- or Occupation
Abbott Bernard F. Northampton street Salesman
Abbott Charles H. Allyn street Soap Manufacturer
Adams Oliver W. Taylor street Supt. Gas Works
Adams William Commercial Street Clerk
Affleck John H. Fairfield avenue

Affleck Ruling Sta. Co.
Agambar William J. Hitchcock street Bookkeeper
Aitken Richard Thomas avenue Papermaker
Allair Napoleon Nlain street Chauffeur
Albin Robert E. Newton street Shipper
Allison Robert L. Main street Salesman
 Ally Lorenzo Lyman street Real Estate Agent
Allyn David F. Pearl street Merchant Tailor
Allyn Edwin H. Fairfield avenue Insurance Agent
Allvn Fred A. Pleasant street Vegetable Peddler
Anderson Frederick H. Dwight street Cigarmaker
Anderson Hugh E. Franklin street Chemical Paper Co.
Anger Louis High street  Painter
Angers William G. Cabot street Lumber Merchant
Ash Thomas Pine street Papermaker
Ashe Cornelius H. St. James avenue Blacksmith
Ashe Frank Sargeant street Brickmason
Atherton Herbert W. Yale street Retired
Auld Thomas C. Chestnut street Musician

Avery Henry C. Northampton street
Mgr. Mt. Hol. Tisue Mills

REPORT OF THE

Board of Health Tuberculosis Dispensary
To the Honorable, the Board of Health: |

Gentlemen: We hereby submit the report of the Tuberculosis Dispensary for the year ending November .
Total attendance at Dispensary.....................  
Number of persons examined at Dispensary...........  

Of this number—
Previously reported to Board of Health...............  
Examined as suspects on own condition..............  
Examined because of contact..............  
Reported to Board of Health by Dispensary Physician

after examination............      
Suspects kept under observation.....................  
Number of dispensary patients admitted to Sanatorium  
Number of dispensary patients treated at hospitals.....  
Number of deaths of dispensary patients.............  
Number of bed patients and private cases visited...... |
Number of private cases referred to dispensary by private

Physicians...  ...   
Number of patients referred to dispensary by City PhySICIAN.     eae  
Number of non-pulmonary cases visited ..............  
Deaths from tuberculosis in Holyoke during year......  
Number of these cases previously reported to Board of

Health...  ... eens  

We wish to thank the members of the Board of Health and
all their office attaches for their hearty co-operation.

We also extend our thanks to the office force of the Overseers of the Poor and to che Police Department for their assistance to us in our work.

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
We thank the physicians of the city for their promptness —
In reporting cases of Tuberculosis and advising us of suspicious
cases, thereby facilitating and aiding the work of the dispensary.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT E. CLEARY, M. D.,
Dispensary Physician.
ANNA I. BURKE,
| Dispensary Worker.

Report of the Holyoke Sanatorium

To the Honorable, the Board of Health:
Gentlemen:

I herewith submit my report of the Holyoke Sanatorium
for the year ending November it being the fifth annual report.

Appropriation............................... 
Additional appropriation..... ...............  
$ 
Amount expended... ....................... 
Balance...  ... nee 

- MAINTENANCE ACCOUNT.

Expended by the Board of Health: —

Salaries to physicians........... .....  
Salaries to nurses..............    
Salaries to help...     
Substitute nurses...  ...      
Substitute help.........     

$ 

Food:

Meats, poultry, fish, vegetables................ 
Groceries, flour, butter, sugar, canned goods, etc  

 Milk.    
Eggs...     es  
Fruit... ae  
Tea, coffee, cocoa.....  ...ee  
$ 

  REPORT OF THE BOARD OF: HEALTH.
Miscellaneous:
Drugs and hospital supplies................... 
Dry goods, (toweling, table linen, etc.).........  
Paper goods, (cups, napkins, etc)..............  
Sweeping compound (Dustdown)..............  
Soap, liquid, soap powder, etc.................  
Rubber goods, bags, caps, bed rings, etc........  
Office supplies, ink, pads, charts, etc...........—  
Cartage, freight, etc......  ...  
Disinfectants...............     
Telephone. ...... ... ce    
Barber...  ...   nee  
Tee.     ene  
SUNdrI€S. ees  
$ 
Repairs and Replacement of Equipment:
Kitchen supplies, crockery, etc................ 
Tents...  ete nes  
Laundry, washing machine...................  
Electrical work. ....... ..   
$ 
Expended by the Board of Public Works:
Heat, Light and Water:
Fuel...  teen 
Electricity...   ace ene  
Water... teen    
$ 
City Property, Repairs:
Roof and chimney...............   .
Building, painting............ ecu    
Sundries...  ...ees  
: 

JURY LIST  
B
Business

Name Residence or Occupation
Bachelder Walter F. Harvard street Geo. W. Prentiss Co
Bail Vincent Newton Street Carpenter
Baker James H. Linden street Real Estate
Baker Michael F. Suffolk street Brickmason
Baker Michael J. Walnut street Bookbinder
Baker Nicholas A. Bh street Brickmason
Balakier Joseph High street Shoe Dealer
Ballard Willis D. Pearl street Coburn Trolley Track Co
Barnett Alexander G. Chestnut street Cloth Finisher
Barnett George Jr. South St., Clerk Am. Writing Pa. Co.
Barrett Edward NI. Clinton avenue Baker
Barry William T. Sargeant street Farr Alpaca Co.
Barsalou Wilfred Elm street Grocery Clerk
Bartley James View street Calendar Foreman
Batchelor Alfred H. Hillside avenue Clerk
Baulne Wilfred South Bridge street Painter
Baush August H. Brown avenue Machinist
Beaudoin Ovila Cabot street Grocer
Beaudry Wilfred South Summer street Loom fixer
Beaulieu Gideon East Dwight street Molder

Beaulieu Louis T. South Summer street
Building Contractor
Beauvais Ernest E. Ilm street Real Estate
Beauvais John B. Essex street Druggist
Beavan Walter L. Chestnut strect Machinist
Beaverstock Elisha F. Columbus street Machinist
Becker David Essex street Painter
Beebe Elmer Essex street Butter Store
Begley Patrick J. South street Wire Chief

Begley Thomas Carlton street

Painting and Paper Hanging
Begley Thomas J. Lyman street Laborer
Bellefeuille Adolphe High street Shoemaker

  JURY LIST
Business

Name Residence or Occupation
Bellerjeau James H. Chestnut street Tailor
Benoit Stephen MI. Walnut street Butcher
Bessett Thaddeus Nlain street Lunch Room
Bessette William C. Main street Expressman
Betz Albert Dwight St., Deane Steam Pump Co.
Bibeau Ryno L. Sargeant street Coal Dealer
Bidwell White P. High street Shipping Clerk
Bieber Max R. Jackson street Overseer
Bigelow Thomas Front street Painter
Bishop Ernest S. W. Lincoln street Electrical Contractor
Blain Dieudonne East Dwight street Motorman
Blais Calixte South Bridge street Undertaker
Blanchard Ulric Sargeant street Collector
Bliss Edmund C. Dwight street Baldwin Garment Co.
Bogart Edward E. Allyn screet Sec. Chase Cooledge
Bohmer William F. Linden street Pawnbroker
Boissy Wilfred Center street Weaver
Bonvouloir Sigfroid J. Chestnut street Paper Business
Bork Henry C. Whiting avenue Butcher and Grocer
Borlen IXdward J. Hitchcock street Motorman
Bosworth William E. Franklin street Lunch Room
Bouchard Narcisse OO West strect Merchant
Boutin Rock South Summer street Millwright
Bowe M. Stephen Beacon avenue Plumber
Bower Thomas S. Hampshire street Paper Finisher
Bowler Michael F. Chapin street Electrician
 Boyer Joseph Longwood avenue Printing Pressman
Bramham Percy Springfield road Mill Operative
Brault Emery North East street Machinist
Bray Dwight R. Westfield road Farmer
Brennan James J. Jr. Pleasant street Expressman
Brennan Stephen J. Suffolk street Brickmason
Bresnahan Patrick Sargeant street Mason Tender
Brewer Allen S. Dwight street Foreman
Briere Wilfred J. Sargeant street Gun Maker

JURY LIST  
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Briggs Samuel T. Carlton street Mill Op.
Brinkman Charles Dwight street Music Teacher
Bristol John W. Cabot street Papermaker
Brodeur Jose ph D. Main street Barber
Brodeur Philias J. Dwight street Paper Mill Op.
Brodinsky David High street Dry Goods Merchant
Brooks Archibald A. Ridgewood avenue Wire Weaver
Brooksbank David Cherry street Cloth Inspector
Brosnahan Stephen Lyman street Paper Mill Op.
Brosseau William C. Davis street Tiremaker
Brown Ambrose L. Bowers street
Yard Master B. M.R. R.
Brown John W. High street Paper Dealer
Brown Michael C. Hampden street Sealing Wax Mfr.
Brown Walter R. View street Mill Op.
Brunelle Etienne Chestnut street Millwright
Buckley John P. Dwight street Electrician
Buckley Walter M. School street Carpenter
Bugbee Erwin J. Chestnut street
Whitmore Glazed Pa. Co.
Bunnell William D. Cabot street Printer
Bunnell William R. Meadow street Clerk
Burke William J. Chestnut street Conductor
Burns James F. Oak street Paymaster
Burns William T. Westfield street Shoe Dealer
Bushnell Charles M. Gates street Towel Supply
Butler George D. Princeton street Salesman
Byrnes John J. Sargeant street Bookkeeper
Cadarette George Center street Farr Alpaca Co.
Cady Harry L. Lyman street Printer
Cahill James T. High street
Shoe and Umbrella Repairer
Callahan Bernard F. Maple street Mer. Lunch Room

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Callahan Edward M. Allyn street Grain Dealer
Cameron Donald Pine street Shipper
Cardinal Jefferson L. Dwight street Salesman
Carl Alfred Worcester place Clerk
Carleton George L. Dwight street Grocer
Carrieres Joseph N. L. Suffolk street Clerk
Carroll George F. Maple street Envelope Cutter
Carroll John H. Elm street Papermaker
Cartier Cyrille L. Main street Violin Teacher
Cartier Edward N. Elm street Barber
Casey Maurice F. Allyn street Printer
Casey Timothy Newton street Blacksmith
Cassidy George B. Newton street Loftman
Cavanaugh Daniel L. South street Spinner
Chambers Henry High street Janitor
Champagne Phileas South Bridge street Baker
Chapin M. Seward Locust street Printer
Chaput Ovila N. Ely street Merchant
Charest Odilon Z. E. Laurel street Furniture dealer
Charland Eugene L. Main street Printer
Charon David Jackson street Barber
Chase Edward T. Dwight street Ruler
Chase Ernest North Summer street
, Foreman Mt. Tom Pa. Div.
Chase J. Paul Pearl street Papermaker
Childs Charles R. S. Lincoln street Amer. Wr. Paper Co.
Chicoine Theodore Wolcott street Steamfitter
Church Ralph E. Dwight street Gas Electric Dept.
Clark David Cabot street Papermaker
Clark George West street Stonecutter
Clark James East Dwight street Papermaker
Clark Robert Dwight street Papermaker
Clarke John S. Bh street Bookkeeper
Clarenbach George E. A. Carlcon street Merchant
Cleary James F. Dwight street Water Inspector

JURY LIST  

Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Cleveland Fred P. Tavlor street Sec’y. Treas.
Cleveland William MI. Brown avenue Machinist
Clifford James J. Suffolk street Brickmason
Clifford Michael J. Dwight street G. &. E. Dept.
Clifford Patrick J. Center street Watchman
Cloutier Leonidas Temple street Merchant
Coderre Alexander T. Nfiosher street Shipping Clerk
Coderre Charles Nlosher street Clerk
Coderre Harry Linden street Painter
Coderre Homer South Bridge street Machinist
Coderre Joseph A. Walnut street Tailor
Cohen Benjamin W. Willow street Clothing Merchant
Colby George Nain street Millwright
Collins F. Henry Elm street Papermaker
Connor Richard Nonotuck street Coal Salesman
Connors Michael J. Sargeant street Insurance Agent
Considine Bartholomew J. Dwight street Shoe Clerk
‘Corcoran Timothy Oak street Barber
Corner Walter H. Appleton street Mill Manager
Corrigan George H. Hampshire street Salesman
Corriveau Joseph Maple street Concractor
Costello William H. Plymouth place Paper Mlill Op.
Coughlin Patrick A. Lyman street Clothing clerk
Couet Alyre Mosher street Merchant
Courtney William P. Franklin street Insurance Agent
Cousineau Alfred F. Nain street Master Plumber
Cowie Robert Jackson street  Real estate
Cox Peter J. Franklin street Laborer
Craven Henry G. Columbus avenue Carpenter
Cray John F. Locust street Weaver
Creran Charles J. Meadow street Painter
Crochiere Francois Park street Butcher
Cronin John A. Nonotuck street Reporter

- Cronin Martin North Summer Sireet

Engineer Crocker Pa. Co.

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Crossley William Cherry street Foreman Dyer
Crowley Cornelius F. Center street Plumber
Cullinan Martin G. Bowers street Conductor
Cummings H. Percy Maple street Foreman
Cunningham Michael P. Cabot street Machinist
D
Daigle Noel Race street Clothing Clerk
Danehy Timothy V. West street Paper Finisher
Danford Thomas E. Walnut street Bookkeeper
Dansereau Francois X. Springfield street Merchant
Dash Norman St. Jerome avenue Machinist
Davey Alfred E. St. Jerome avenue
Street Railway Conductor
Davies Pierce Ferguson place Slate Roofer
Davis Isidor W. Washington avenue Merchant
Daze William Main street Molder
Dean Eugene Lyman street Fireman
Dean Eugene Maple street Fireman
Delaney William H. Lynwood avenue Painter
Denault Walter F. Main street Clerk
Desilets Emery Mosher street
Weaver Wm. Skinner Sons
Devitt James Center street Papermaker
Devitt William A. Newton street Papermaker
Dibble Frank H. Nonotuck street Contractor
Dietz Walter H. Easthampton road Dietz Baking Co.
Dillon William J. Northampton street Undertaker
Doane George W. Jr. Dartmouth street Contractor-Builder
Docherty George Brown avenue Wire Weaver
Doerpholz Fred T. Franklin street Druggist
Domingue Arthur Mosher street Clerk
Donahue Maurice G. Pine street Clerk
Donaldson Stanislas Newton street Painter .
Donoghue Cornelius J. Center street Janitor

JURY LIST  
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Donoghue Frederick B. Sonoma place Carpenter
Donoghue Hugh NI. Chestnut strect Grocer
Donoghue Michael J. Dwight street Clerk
Donoghue Sylvester Hampden street Bookkeeper
Donnelly James E. Sargeant street Marbler
Dooling John J. Davis street Machinist
Dooling Thomas J. Davis street Beamer Tender
Doran J. Joseph Walnut street Linotype Operator
Dougherty Arthur J. Walnut street Clerk
Dowd John J. Jr. Franklin street Cigarmaker
Dowd Lawrence F. South street Real Itstate
Dowd Patrick J. View street Traffic Manager
Downing Michael Appleton street Pa. Mill Engineer
Doyle Michael J. Elm street M. J. Doyle Ptg. Co.
Doyle Stephen H. Miller avenue Printer
Doyle William J. Avon Place Newspaper Reporter
Dragon Eugene Park street Silk Weaver
Dreicorn Emil F. Washington avenue’ Nlaster Painter
Driscoll Stephen Dwight street Clerk
Dubiel Andrew Canby street Real Estate
Dubourg Philias NAfain street Book Stamper
Ducharme Henry Lexington avenue Merchant
Ducharme Israel Papineau street Contractor
Ducharme Valere Pine street Grocer
Ducharme William O. Hampshire street Grocer Butcher
Dunbar Charles R. Chestnut street Merchant
Dupuis Fortunat Commercial street Farr Alpaca Co.
Durant Henry O. Walnut street Machinist
Dela Durantaye Louis Nliagnolia avenue
David McCormick Son
Durocher Alfred Bh street Grocer
Dustin Charles W. Chestnut street Foreman
Dydek Louis High street Jeweler

  JURY LIST
E
| Business

Name Residence or Occu pation
Eagan James South East Street Pa. Mill Op.
Eaton Joseph Pleasant street Clerk
Edwards Hugh T. Mosher street Yard Clerk
Eisman Hugo F. High street Clerk
Elliott George A. Essex street Druggist
Ellis Friend Chestnut street Machine Fixer
Ely Ralph A. Locust street Forester
Ely Robert W. Waldo street Nat. Blk. Book Co.
Emery Henry Cabot street Manager U. S. Env Co
Emery Louis E. West street Clerk
Emond Theodore R. Dwight street Clerk
Enright John Lyman street Paper Mill Op.
Escott Henry Willow street Loomfixer
Evans Edwin B. Sargeant street Salesman
Evans George J. Appleton street Clerk
Evans John J. Jr. Clinton avenue Envelope Adjuster
Ezold Edward E. Pine street Crocker Mfg. Co.

FE ;

Fafard Oscar Chestnut street Paper Mill Op.
Fahey Timothy C. Pearl street Compositor
Farr Howard G. Hillside avenue Machinist
Farrell James E. Maple street Roofer
Farrell William F. Dwight street Wire Weaver
Feather Frank Washington avenue Tin. Plumber
Feinstein Bernett Fairfield Ave. Leather Merchant
Feldman Nathan N. Union street Merchant
Fenton John J. Dwight street Carriage Trimmer
Ferguson Archibald Jr. Morgan street Laundry
Field Thomas H. Locust street Farr Alpaca Co.
Fimbel Joseph L. Main street Automobile Dealer
Finn John J. Linden street Union Coal Wd. Co.
Finn Martin J. North East street Stationary Fireman
Fitzgerald IXdward High street Paper Mill Op.

JURY LIST 
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Fitzgerald James J. High street Papermaker
Fitzgerald John West street Carpenter
Fitzgerald Maurice FE. Sargeant street Laborer
Fitzgerald Patrick W. School street Motorman
Fitzgerald Thomas Elm street W. B. Whiting Coal Co.
Flagg William D. Northampton street Retired
Fleming Urban Lyman street Mule Spinner
Fleming Venantius J. Chestnut Street Paper Mill Op.
Flynn Daniel Dwight street Insurance Agent
Flynn Patrick H. Magnolia avenue Druggist
Foerster Frederick H. Sargeant street Clerk
Foerster Henry C. Linden street Druggist
Foley Robert J. Chestnut street Loftman
Fontaine Joseph B. South East street Baker
Foote William L. Fairfield avenue Foundry Mngr.
Forbes Stephen A. Franklin street Silk Mill Op.
Ford Charles J. Allyn street Awning Maker
Fortier Lawrence H. Appleton street Clerk
Fortin Adelard A. Chestnut street Clerk
Fortune William D. Ferguson Place Salesman
Fournier Rodolphe Ely street Printer
Fowles Lynford Northampton street Carpenter
Francoeur Samuel L.. Hampshire street Barber
Fredericks Edwin Elm street Barber
Fredericks George Sargeant street Printer
Freeman John T. Hampshire street Wool Sorter
Freeman Peter Jr. Maple street Produce Dealer
French Arthur E. Lincoln street Insurance Agent
Fringelin Joseph C. Beacon avenue Merchant
Fuller Herbert E. Maple street Advertising Agent
Fuestel Edwin G. Suffolk street Clerk
G

Gallivan Daniel J. Smiths Ferry Florist
Gander Carl A. Chestnut street Tailor

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Gault Harry S. Miller avenue Salesman
Gaumond Joseph Bh street Salesman
Gardner William Sycamore strect Paper Mill Op.
Geiler Richard F. Commercial street Merrick Lum. Co.
Geoghan Thomas  Elm street Farr Alpaca Co.
Geran Dennis F. Arlington street Shoe Clerk
Geran Patrick Walnut street Janitor
Gibbons Edward East Dwight street Calendar Foreman
Gildea John A. Miller avenue Merchant
— Gillette Wilbur F. Pleasant street Bookkeeper
Gilligan Michael H. Hampden street Piper
Gillis Andrew MI. Dwight street Mov. Pict. Op.
Ginley Patrick J. North East street Papermaker
Gleason William D. Race street Printer
Godin Camille J. High strect Drug Clerk
Goehring Richard C. Brown avenue Merchant
Gold Harry Elm street Dry Goods Merchant
Golden Patrick Sargeant street Laborer
Goldstein Samuel High street Salesman
Goodhind Charles Chapin street Wire Scretcher
Gowett Grover C. Appleton street Salesman
Goyette Stephen Northampton Millwright
Grady Jeremiah J. Elm street Foreman
Granfield Michael Nlosher street Foreman Ruler
Gray James Sargeant street Machinist
Graystone William A. Laurel street Mngr.  Store
Greaney Arthur G. Walnut street Clerk |
Greaney Frank L. Maple street Grocer
Green George A. O’Connor avenue
Eureka Blank Book Co.
Gridley Phillip W. Nladison avenue Asst. Manager
Griffin Bartholomew High street Machinist
Grifhn Eugene  Pine street Barber
Griffin James Walnut street Grocer
Griffin John Newton street Beamer Tender

JURY LIST  
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Griffin Joseph F. Pleasant street Insurance Agent
Griffin Thomas J. Lincoln street Butcher
Grogan John High street Shipping Clerk
Gubbins Thomas E. Congress avenue Steamfitter
Guertin Herve North Canal street Sizeman
Guiel Louis Nfain street Electrical Contractor
Gulvas Albert South Canal street Bookbinder
H

Hagerty Jeremiah East Dwight street Papermaker
Haggerty Dennis NI. rear North East street Real Estate
Haggerty James J. Dwight street Printer
Halfpenny John Elm street Merchant
Halket Thomas Hampshire street Compositor
Hallett Zenas D. B. Pleasant street Bookkeeper
Hamel Albini Cabot street Grocer
Hamilton Thomas H. Appleton street Mlonotype Operator
Hammond George Niaple street Theater Mer.
Hanley Walter D. Chestnut street Bookkeeper
Hannan James P. Davis street Salesman
Hannifin James J. High street Lunchman
Hardaker Watson King street Foreman
Hargaden Thomas Dwight street Barber
Harding Foster S. Dwight street Clerk
Harper John Lynwood avenue Chauffeur
Hart William NI. Brown avenue Foreman
Harty James J. Dwight street Clerk
Hartzell Leander C. Newton Place Awning Maker
Hastings C. Howard Lawler avenue Nfgr. Affleck Rul. Co.
Hatch Walter C. Essex street Merchant
Haunton Herbert C. Elm street Agent
Healey Andrew F. Beacon avenue Meter Reader
Hegy Frank J. Pleasant street Merchant Tailor
Heidner Joseph G. North Pleasant street Merchant

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Hennessey William Maple street City Gas Works
Henry Isaac Congress avenue Rubber Shop Op.
Henry William J. High street Silk Mill Op.
Hiebel Edward Hitchcock street Sash Maker
Higgins John F. Upper Springfield Road
Sheet Metal Worker
Hills George F. West street Salesman
Hirsch Morris Pine street Merchant
Hogan Patrick. View street Steam Engineer
Holgate Colonel Hillside avenue Wool Sorter
Holl Leonard Park street Millwright
Holley Benjamin Westfield road St. Ry. Motorman
Hollis Stephen Walnut street Watchman
Holman Arthur G. Cabot street Clerk
Holmes Asa H. Maple street Cigar store
Hopwood Walter J. Newton street Machine Fixer
Houle Arthur]. South Bridge street Machinist
Humestom Thomas R. Homestead avenue Clerk
Hunter Roy J. Northampton street Harness Maker
Hurlburt Arthur P. Park street Insurance Agent
Hurley Cornelius A. South Bridge street Salesman
Hurley Jeremiah J. South Summer street Teamster
Hyde James H. North Canal street Yard Nlaster
J
Jacques Elsie F. Appleton street Bank Teller
Jacques Hilaire Jr. South Bridge street Carpenter
James John M. Madison avenue Farr Alpaca Co.
Jarry Pierre L. South Canal street Engineer
Johannis Robert Bh street Painter
Joyce Thomas Franklin street Machinist
Jubinville William Samosett street Motorman
Judd Clifford K. Willams street Judd Paper Co.
Judge William J. High street Steamfitter
Judge John J. Center street Insurance Agent
Jurasz Peter Elm street Grocer Butcher

JURY LIST  

K
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Kalloch Henry J. Pine street Painter
Kane Eugene F. Dwight street Water Inspector
Kane John J. West street Motorman
Kane John T. Bh street Laborer
Kaplinsky Ike Nlosher street Grocer
Kiely Bartholomew High street City Laborer
Kawecki Joseph Chestnut street Lunch room
Keating Thomas Commercial street Am. Thread Co.
Keating William P. Charles street Janitor
Kelliher Jeremiah F. Adams street Mill Operative
Kelly Edward J. Dwight street Clerk
Kennedy Daniel J. High street Janitor
| Kennedy John F. Center street Grocer
Kennedy William Brown avenue Janitor
Kenney Patrick J. West street Electric Light Dept.
Keough Francis Bh street Conductor
Kermode William J. High street Silk Mull Op.
Kershaw Samuel Dwight street Farr Alpaca Co.
Kesler Hyman Brooks avenue Merchant Tailor
Kiely James Dwight screet Foreman
Kilian Frederick O'Connor avenue Bookkeeper
Kingsbury Everett G. Nonotuck street Merchant
Klemm Robert C. Cleveland str Jeweler
Knightly Francis R. Locust street Printer
Krause Ernest John South Summer Street Printer
Kreuter Jacob High street Carpenter
Kroepel Emil W. Wescfield road Machinist

L
Labardge Louis Niain street Baker
Lacombe Edward J. Congress avenue Collector
Lade Robert Jr. Pleasant street Machinist
Lafrance Charles Suffolk street Papermaker

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Lacroix Armand NMlain street Butcher
Laliberte Orient Jackson street Bookkeeper
Lamarche Albert L. High street Business Agent
Lamb Edward D. North Pleasant street Office Nigr.
Lambert William Suffolk street Millwright
Lamberton Louis High street Truckman
Lamagdelaine Romuald O. Newton street Compositor
Lamagdelain Theophile South Summer street Carpenter
Lang Andrew Ferguson place Farr Alpaca Co.
Langelier Victor Jr. North East street Real Estate
Landgraf Otto Jackson street Butcher
Langlois Joseph E. Center street Grocer
Laporte L. Alphonse Appleton street Salesman
Larkin Michael O.  Glen street Piano Dealer
Larivee Joseph P. Appleton street Teamster
Lariviere Joseph South Summer street Mill Operative
Laskin Max Niain street Clothier
LLauckner Gustave O. Washington avenue’ Insuragnce At.
Leary John J. Hitchcock street Clerk
Leary Jeremiah Sargeant street Janitor
Leary Joseph F. High street Paper Mfill Op.
Leclair Albert C. Chestnut street Lather
Lederer Paul H. Pleasant street Plumber
Lee George A. Pine street Blacksmith
Lee W. Edson Maple street Clerk
Lee William H. Pine street Cloth Dealer
Lefebvre Frank Appleton street Tea Merchant
Lehmann Harry NI. Main street Printer
Leining Fred Longwood avenue Clerk
Lemieux Adelard Lyman street Fisk Rubber Co.
Lepine Didace E. fain street Tea Coffee Merchant
Lesperance Frank W. South Summer street Mill Operative
Levine Abraham Northampton street
Drygoods Merchant
Lewis J. Roy Pearl street Ely Lumber Co.

JURY LIST  
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Liebeck Louis C. Commercial street Cloth Presser
Linehan Frank Dwight street City Gas Works
Lipcin Ely MM. Sargeant strect Merchant
Little Arthur W. Cook street Bookkeeper
Long Daniel M. Pine street Grocer
Long David A. Hampshire street Coburn T. Trk Co.
Lorenz William J. South Summer str Mill Operative
Loudon John D. Park street Papermaker
Lowe James H.  High street Inspector Rubber Works
Lowell Harry I. Gilman street Master Painter
Lucey Frank MI. Linden street Boxmaker
Lunn Haven W. Appleton street  Piano Teacher
Lyman Charles P. Elm street Tinning and Plumbing
Lyman Edson L. Dwight street Real Estate
Lynch Thomas F. Sargeant street Clerk
Lynds Everete H. Hillside avenue Bookkeeper
Lynch Dennis F. Chestnut street Insurance Agent
Lynch Maurice Dwight street Contractor
Lynch Michael J. North East street Wet Wash Laundry
Lynch Patrick F. Niaple street Janitor
Lyons John J. Sargeant street Automobile Dealer
Lyons Thomas P. Hampden street Electrician
Lynsky Patrick J.  Ely street Clerk
M |
MacDonald John Appleton street Clerk
Mackey Patrick Pine street Papermaker
Magliola Anselm Elm street Merchant
Magna Russell W. Nfadison avenue Auto Dealer
Magrane John k. Hampden street Compositor
Nlahoney Dennis E. Pleasant street Furnitiure Clerk
Mahoney John West street Tinsmith
Mainville Ernest J. Hitchcock street Merchant Tailor
Marcil Arthur A. Chestnut street Milliner

  JURY LIST :
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Malcolm Allen J. Wolcott street Wire Weaver
Maley David J. Mosher street Laborer
. Mandeville Joseph North east street Second Hand
Marcotte Hubert Main street Butcher
Marra William J. Miller avenue Inspector Police Signal
Marran Vincent P. Cabot street Walsh Boiler Works
Marrs Harry E. East Dwight street Clerk
Marsh George C. Oak street Box Mfg.
Martin Joseph W. Beacon avenue Ticket Agent
Martin Maurice Chestnut street Gas Elec. Dept.
Marx Henry J. Brown avenue Machinist
Mason Samuel W. Parker street Silk Twister
Mathieson Richard G. Sargeant street Merrick Thread Co.
McBride David Carlton street Clerk
McCarthy Daniel J. Chestnut street Clerk
McCarthy Eugene J. Fairfield avenue Organist
McCarthy Felix Whiting avenue Laborer
McCarthy Frederick Worcester place Machinist
McCarthy George H. Willow street Chief Clerk
McCarthy James S. Hampshire street Beamer Tender
McCarthy John K. Pine street Retired
McCearn John Suffolk street Papermaker
McConville Cornelius Commercial street Machinist
: McDonald Edward J. Dwight street Insurance Agent
McDonald Frank E. Appleton street Weaver
McDonald George T. High street Bookkeeper
McDonnell John F. East Dwight street Stonecutter
McDuff William T. Myrtle avenue Baker
McGonegal John C. Maple street Paper Mill Op.
McGuinness Thomas Walnut street

Hampden Glazed Paper Co.
MclIntee John J. Chestnut street Clerk
McKenna Patrick J. Dwight street Grocer
McKinnon Lachlan Walnut street Draughtsman
McLaron Luther High street Twister

JURY LIST  
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
McLaughlin John F. Dwight street Printer
NIcLean Thomas Chestnut street Furniture Dealer
McMahon Charles F. Elm street American Thread Co.
McMahon George H. Fountain street Casper Ranger Co.
McMaster Robert A. Brooks avenue Painter
McQuillan Francis P. North Canal street
Foreman, Rag Room
McQuillan John A. Bowers street Plumber
McNaught William Sargeant street Papermaker
McNeese Vincent J. Cabot street Insurance Agent
Meany Patrick J. Clearmont avenue Clothier
Mee Thomas J. Park street Mill Operative
Menard Alfred South Canal street  Mfill Operative
Menard Joseph K. High street Furniture Clerk
Meon Martin Walnut street Tailor
Mercure Nazaire Lyman street Merchant
Messier Emile South Bridge street Merchant
Messier Victor South Bridge street Newspa. Agent
Meunier Gerald Maple street Clerk
Migneault Samucl Main street Dentist .
Millane John J. Fairfield avenue Druggist
Miner Ray H. Gates street Baggage Master
Miner Thomas Suffolk street Paymaster
Minkley Gustave Adolph Tavlor street Machine Fixer
Moakler Patrick J. Dwight street Barlow NIfg. Co.
Mondor Hector J. Laurel street Jewelry Salesman
Mongeau George Jr. Oak street Traffic Manager
Monoghan James J. Maple street Insurance Agent
Montgomery John H. Montgomery avenue Real Estate
Moran Charles H. E. Brown avenue Clerk
More Anthony Cabot street Book Finisher
More Louis A. Clark street National Blk. Bk. Co.
Moreau Charles R. South Bridge street Janitor
Moriarty Edward Dwight street Machinist
Moriarty Eugene J. Dwight street Conductor

  JURY LIST.
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Moriarty Thomas J. Dwight street Carpenter
Morrison William J. Walnut street Janitor
Morrow Thomas J. Northampton street Jeweler
Morton Robert K. Dwight street Salesman
Mossman John C. Franklin street Ruler
Moynahan Frank T. Dwight street Bookeeper
Moynihan James P. Center street Drug Clerk
Moynihan Walter Center street Drug Clerk
Muir Raymond W. Westfield road Carpenter
Mulcahy John J. Springfield road Chauffeur
Mullen James F. Clinton avenue Meter Reader
Munn David Maple street Clerk
Munsell Everett A. Main street Paymaster
Murphy James C. Pearl street Musician
Murphy Jeremiah South Summer street Papermaker
Murphy John R. Maple street Bookkeeper
Murphy Michael M. Essex street Druggist
Murphy Stephen F. Pleasant street Barber
Murray Lachlan McLean Columbus avenue Pressman
Mutter William K. South Bridge street Merchant
Myers Grant S. West street Conductor
Myers James High street Shipping Clerk
N

Nash Henry J. West street Liveryman
Naughton Alexander Chestnut street Paper Mill Op.
Naughton Alexander Jr. Hampshire street Printer
Naughton William C. lm street Insurance Agent
Neddo William B. Nain street S.:. Ry. Conductor
Neill Robert G. Dwight street Painter
Newcomb Frank G. Sargeant street Bookkeeper
 Newcomb Robert E. Chestnut street Superintendent
Newell Arthur J. Washington avenue R.T. Oakes Co.
 Newman Christopher F. Sargeant street J. P. Squier Co.

JURY LIST  
Business
Name Residence Or Occupation
Newton J. Bertram Franklin street Chemical Paper Co.
Newton Mfilo E. Franklin street Deane Stm. Pmp. Co.
Nobert Ernest J. South Bridge street Foreman
Nolan Edward P. School street Painter
Nolan Farrell Center street Shipping Clerk
Nolan James F. School street Watchman
Nolan Joseph P. Elm street Florist
Noonan George B. Clinton avenue Printer
Norton William North East street Cigar Clerk
Nye Andrew Maple street Farr Alpaca Co.
O

Ober Emile Vernon street Tailor
Oberlander John A. [tlm street Overseer
O’Brien Frank Walnut street Lineman
O’Brien Michael Jr. High street Compositor
O’Brien Patrick J. Niaple street Barber
O’Brien Walter H. Essex street National Blk. Bk. Co.
O’Connell! Daniel F. Bh street Papermaker
O’Connell Daniel J. Dwight street Contractor
O’Connell Denis F. Dwight street Loan Agent
O’Connell Edward Chestnut street Asst. Milk Insp.
O’Connell Frank Lexington avenue Building Insp.
O’Connell Henry Mosher street Whiting Paper Co.
O’Connell James F. South Summer street §Papermaker
O’Connell James H. O’Connor avenue Ins. Agent
O’Connell Nicholas High street Thread Finisher
O’Connor Arthur V. Dwight street Ins. Agent
O’Connor Edward M. Bh street Electric Lt. Trimmer
O’Connor John J. Clinton avenue Clerk
O’Connor John J. Pine street Telegram Pub. Co.
O’Connor Patrick T. Elm street Park Keeper
O’Donnell Terrence Spring street Papermaker
O’Leary Arthur J. Appleton street Traffic Manager

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
O’Neill Eugene T. North East street Bricklayer
O’Neill Frank F. Walnut street Builder
O’Neill Lawrence A. Walnut street Real Estate
O’Neill Thomas E. Dwight street Weaver
Osborne Harrison D. Bh street Coachman
Osgood Edgar MI. Washington avenue  Draughtsman
Osgood Fayette C. Sycamore street Sta. Fireman
O’Shea John Jr. Pleasant street ——————
Owen Emmett Center street Envelope Cutter
Owen James F. Fairfield avenue Insurance Agent
P

Papineau Wilfred Elm street Machinist
Parfitt James Lincoln street Merchant
Parent Henry J. Newton street Barber
Parent Ludger Walnut street Cigarmaker
Parenteau Louis P. Main street Grocer

Parisien Alphonse North East street
Conductor B. M. R. R.
Partseau Henry South Bridge street Millwright
Paul Theodore Sargeant street Merrick Thread Co.
Pauze Eddie Appleton street Retired
Pease Clarence E. Elm street Barber
Peck Lewis F. Hitchcock street Clerk
Peltier Joseph A. North East street Real Estate
Pendergast William J. Congress Avenue Moulder
Perry Albert H. Whitney avenue Motorman
Person Lucius Bh street Electrician
Pease Arthur F. Pearl street Butcher
Phillips Walter S. Walnut street Clerk
, Pickup George E. Dartmouth street Overseer
Piekos Dydak Lyman street Baker
Pistole John W. Maple street Clerk
Plouffe Arthur J. South Bridge St., Restaurant Keeper

JURY LIST  
, Businese
Name Residence or Occupation
Ponton Wilfred High street Cigarmaker
Potvin Adelard M. Walnut street Clothier
Powers Richard M. Hampshire street Cigarmaker
Pratt Alexander High street Cloth Presser
Preissler Martin View street Plasterer
Prentiss George W.  nd Madison avenue Geo. W. Prentiss Co.
Prentiss John J. Chase avenue Electric Lt. Trimmer
Prew George J. Lincoln street Clothier
Prouty Charles A. Sycamore street Deane Stm. Pump Co
Provost Charles Center street Bricklayer
Provost Ernest West street Harness Maker
Provost Louis H. Lyman street Paper Mill Op.
Press Mendel MI. Carlton street Cornice Maker
Purrington Edward C. Niaple street Bookkeepe r
| Q
Quenneville Jules Mosher street Carpenter
Quigléy Michael F. Maple street Expressman
Quinn William J. Pine street National Blk. Bk. Co.
Quirk Jeremiah W. Suffolk street Merchant
Quirk Thomas Dwight street Eureka Blk. Bk. Co.
R |

Raboin Hormisdas South Canal street Watchman
Rafferty Edwin W. Maple street Stonecutter
Rainville Osilada Nfain street Barber
Rand A. Judson Fairfield avenue Jeweler
Ranger James Elm street C. Ranger Co.
Reardon Dennis J. Dwight street Farr Alpaca Co.
Reardon John J. Appleton street Clerk
Reardon William J. Allyn street Papermaker
Redford Joseph Northampton street Mill Supt.

  JURY LIST.
Business

Name Residence or Occupation

- Regan John T. Maple street
Foreman P. J. Kennedy Co., Inc.
; Reidy John J. Congress avenue Cloth Presser
Revett Frank H. Northampton street Master Plumber
Reynolds Thomas F. Olive avenue Bricklayer
Rheaume Albert Lyman street Teamster
Richter Charles L. East Dwight screet Conductor
Richter Joseph Newton street Machinist
Richter Otto F. Glen street Master Plumber
Ricklas Louis Elm street Merchant
Rielly Richard P. Appleton street Chauffeur
Riley George A. Dwight street Farr Alpaca Co.
Ring Joseph A. Dwight street Millinery
Roberts Charles S. Sargeant street Wm. Skinner Sons
Robert Felix J. Hamilton street Papermaker
Rock David Hamilton street Merchant
Rock Leslie C. Nonotuck street Baker
Rodier Philias Chestnut street Merchant
Rogers Harry W. Laurel street Conductor
Rogers Justin O. Myrtle avenue Carpenter
Rourke Edward J. Jr. Race street Janitor
Rohan James P. Pine street Printer
Ross Harold W. High street Paper Mill Op.
Rowley William Chestnut street Farr Alpaca Co.
Roy Charles U. Main street Shoe Dealer
Ruckdeschel Ernest Sargeant street Printer
Rudiger Jules South Bridge street Loomfixer
Russell Daniel J. East Dwight street Stonecutter

Ryan John F. Maple street
American Pad Pa. Co.
Ryan Patrick F. Dwight street Cigarmaker
Ryan William C. Maple street Street Car Conductor

JURY LIST 
S
Business

Name Residence or Occupation
Sainte Marie Hormisdas Hampshire street Clothing Clerk
Sabourin Leopold Spring street Paper Cutter

Sampson Charles B. Northampton street
Hav and Grain Nlerchant
Sattler Emil E. Upper Springfield road Laborer
Sawin A. Allan Hampden street Clerk
Scanlon John Niaple street Farr Alpaca Co.
Scheibel Julius A. Nleadow street Manager
Schirch Frank J. Bond street Janitor
Schmitter Alvin F. South street Druggist
Schroeder Henry E.  South Bridge street Machinist
Schuster Christian F. Appleton street Box Manufacturer
Seibel John Jr. Newton street Shipping Clerk
Senior Charles A. Hampden street Clothier
Shaw Walter Taylor street Grocer
Shea Frank elm street Gas Electric Dept.
Shea James J. St. Jerome avenue’ Farr Alpaca Co.
Shea John B. Dwight street Undertaker
Shea John F. Suffolk street Pressman
Shea Timothy Gates street Sheet Metal Worker
Shea John F., Jr. Lexington avenue Real Estate Agent
Shea John P. Walnut street Farr Alpaca Co.
Shearer Frederick Sargeant street Foreman Paper Mill
Sheehan Dennis J. Bh street Real Estate
Sheehan Edward F. Bh street Vegetable Pedler
Sheehan John D. Lyman street City Gas Works
Sheehan Vincent D. P. Laurel street Chauffeur
Sheldon Jesse E. Pleasant street Sheldon’s Transfer
Shelley Frank A. Maple street Collector
Shippee Leon A. Bowers street Janitor
Shumway George J. Lincoln street  Shoe Clerk
Sickman Albert F. Lincoln street  Hydraulic Engineer
Sill William A. Ferguson place Painter
Silverman Benjamin Walnut street Merchant

  JURY LIST
Business

Name Residence or Occupation
Simard Henry F. Pleasant street Tailor
Sinclair George H. Smiths Ferry Florist
Skilling William H. Newton street Plumber
Skinner James E. Sonoma place Bowling Alley Prop.
Skolnik Abram Laurel street Dry Goods Merchant
Slattery Thomas E. Myrtle avenue Awning Maker
Smethurst John Hampshire street Machinist
Smith Clarence Hampden street Chef
Smith Edward H. High street Knifeman
Smith Enos D. Brown avenue’ Foreman Paper Mill
Smith J. O. Ceade South Bridge street Drug Clerk
Smith John E. Lincoln street Machine Fixer
Smith Joseph U. South Bridge street Merchant
Smith Leroy E. Clark street Contractor Builder
Smith W. R. Parker Elm street Grocery Clerk
Solin Jacob Lyman street Grocer )
Southiere Felix Westfield Road Clerk
Southiere Henry J. Olive avenue Compositor
Spamer George T.  Center street Machinist
Spamer Theodore Jr. South street Meat Cutter
Spen!enhauer John Northampton street Foreman
Spies Afilton S. Northampton street Mer. Tailor Squires Byron A. Elm street Carpenter
Stack John FE. Maple street Westinghouse Co.
Stansfield John A. King street Conductor
Stanton Patrick G. Hampden street

| Eureka Blank Book Co.

Stearns Russell F. Dwight street Bookkeeper
Stebbins Homer Main street Foreman
Steele Ernest S. Cabot street Mgr. Armour Co.
Stone W. Willard Pine street Westinghouse Co.
Storey James Dwight street Machinist
Stromfors Axel G. Tavlor street Blacksmith
Stroshine William Hampden street Wire Weaver
Sullivan Daniel E. High street Store Manager

JURY LIST  
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Sullivan Dennis F. Dwight street Bookbinder
Sullivan Dennis P. Maple street Plumber
Sullivan Frank P. High street Steamfitter
Sullivan Humphrey Elm street Papermaker
Sullivan James J. Appleton street Grocer
Sullivan John B. lm street Mlotorman
Sullivan John M. Maple street Chemical Paper Co. |
Sullivan John P. View strect Geary, Sullivan Co.
Sullivan Matthew  Mosher street Clerk
Sullivan Michael J. Hampden street Brickmason
Sullivan Maurice Congress avenue Brickmason
Sullivan Neil  West street Bookbinder
Sullivan Patrick Linden street Laborer
Sullivan Patrick J. B. Linden street Clerk
Sutton William Suffolk street Papermaker
Symasko Anthony High street Undertaker
T
Tait John  Hampshire street Pa. Mill Engineer
Tait William A. Jackson street Papermaker
Taylor Charles L. Pine street Machinist
Teahan Irving C. Lyman street Plumber
Teahan John J. Sargeant street Silk Mill Op.
Tessier Raymond Commercial street Carpenter
Tetreault George A. Cabot str Jewelry Clerk
Tetreault Napoleon J. Cabot strect Baker
Therien Alexander J. Wolcott street Merchant
Therrien Alfred East Dwight street  Conductor
Theunert Charles E. Walnut street Machine Fixer
 Thomas Harry Sargeant street Salesman
Thompson John Pine street Papermaker
Thornton Edward J. East Dwight street Papermaker
Thorpe Reginald E. Waldo street Carpenter
Tiedemann Max kK. Linden str Butcher

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Tilley Clifton L. Morgan street Furniture Dealer
Tobin James P. Brown avenue Dyer
Towne William E. Cabot street Publisher
Tracy Michael D. Newton street Beamer Tender
‘Trainor Edward Congress avenue Platerman
Trepanier Adclard Main street Hat store Manager
 Trudelle David South Summer street Carpenter
Trudeau Fred E. Mosher street Insurance Agent
Trudeau Dolphis J. Ik:lm street Insurance Agent
Trudeau Odias J. Olive avenue Salesman
Tucker John Allyn street Holyoke Supply Co.
Turner Albert Franklin street Farr Alpaca Co.
Turner William Dwight street Bookkeeper
Twaddle George H. High street Retired
Twing Edward L. Stantord street Insurance Agent
Tyning Dennis L. Brown avenue Dandy Roll Maker
U
Uhlmann Gussie B. Grant street Mill Operative
V

Vallee Joseph Pine street Papermaker
VanTassell William C. NMfain street Veterinarian
Varvin Joseph Park street Jeweler
VanWagenen Willis Hillside avenue Foreman Printer
Vester Herman Brown avenue Lithographer
Viens Adelard High street jeweler
Vincent Arthur R. Walnut street Druggist
Vines John Brown avenue Mechanic
Vogel Frank L. Nain street Stock Clerk
Vogt August Park street Mill Operative

JURY LIST .
W é
Business

Name Residence or Occupation
Wakelin James H. Fairfield avenue Dry Goods Mier.
Walsh James O’Connor avenue  Retired
Walsh Joseph B. Center street Water Insp.
Ward John J. Oak street Collector
Warner Ernest S. Hampden street Real F'state
Warnock Henry C. Hampden street Paymaster
Warren James F. Jackson street Plumber
Waters Owen Elm str Dyer
Waters Peter W. Linden street Cashier
Watson Thomas O. Dwight street Salesman
Webb Albert Northampton street Paymaster
Webber Frank C. Essex street Pattern Maker
Weir Thomas Y. Fairfield avenue Conductor

Weis Joseph B. Cleveland street
Perfect Safety Paper Co.
Welch John E. Park street Shipping Clerk
Wells Edwin D. Walnut street Hardware Dealer
West George F. Brown avenue Chauffeur
West George H. Jackson street Painter
Wharfield W. Clifford Pearl street Am. Wr. Paper Co.
Whitcomb [:ugene H. Walnut street Retired
Whitaker Edgar N. Amherst street Highland Mfg. Co.
Whiting Sidney E. Oak street Assistant Treasurer
Wiesel Herman South Summer street Weaver
Wildman William Taylor street Machinist
Wilhelm C. Robert Charles street Master Mechanic
Williston Roland South street Ely Lumber Co.
Wilmot Bernard J.: Bh street Carriage Painter
Wilms Gustave A. Norwood Terrace Bookkeeper
Wilson Jacob Dwight street Tailor
Winkler Frederick A. Washington ave. Cement Contractor
Winkler Henry Jr. Chestnut street Machinist
Winn James H. Park street Papermaker
Woodruff Joseph B. Howard street Clerk

  JURY LIST
Business
Name Residence or Occupation
Wolfe Charles H. Chestnut street Overseer Am. T. Co.
Wolfenden Arthur E. Ferguson place Grocer
Wolfenden Robert Pine street Grocer
Wolohan Sarsfield J. Walnut street Real Estate
Wooller Samuel Queen street Mill Op.
Woodbury Herbert G. Cabot street Pool and Billiards
Wrinkle Lawrence E. Maple street Clothing Clerk
Y

Yelle Joseph E. Elm street Mill wright
Yenlin Sebastien Jr. High street Baker
Yoerg Kraig J. Brown avenue Real Estate
Young Donald R. Magnolia avenue Shoe Clerk
Young Frederick M. Walnut street Wool Sorter

Z .
Zaumseil F. Herman Springfield street Mill Operative
Zielinski John Hillside avenue Bank Clerk

Holyoke, June .
The foregoing is list of jurors prepared for the city of Holyoke under
the provisions of the law applicable thereto.
. JAMES J. DUNN,

THOMAS STANSFIELD,

JOSEPH A. PARADIS,

JOHN F. SHEEHAN,

Registrars of Voters.

CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN
Ward Ward
 —William Grover.  —John O’Donnell. ,
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Aug. Stursberg.  —J. F. Allen.
 —John H. Wright. Clerk, E. A. Ramsey.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.

Ward  —William Ruddy, Curtis Moore,. James Ruddy.
Ward  —C. B. Harris, S. F. Stebbins, G. W. Burditt.
Ward  —Martir Lawler, F. Kreimendahl, Matthew Walsh.
Ward  —H. G. Pierce, A. C. Pratt, W. D. Higgins.
Ward  —Mfaurice Lynch, J. A. Sullivan, John O’Connell.
Ward  —C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick, John Delaney.
Ward  —H. A. Pratt, Rueben Winchester, R. M. Fairfield.
Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsey.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward Ward
 —William Grover.  —Edw. O’Connor.
 —H. A. Chase.  —G. W. Prentiss.
 —Matthew Walsh.  —J. F. Allen.
 —John H. Wright Clerk, E. A. Ramsey.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. H. Heywood.

Ward  —John Moore, James Ruddy, William Ruddy.
Ward  —C. B. Harris, Fred Morrison, H. G. Smith.
Ward  —Richard Gilday, F. Kreimendahl, Henry Winkler.
Ward  —S. J. Donahue, Peter McKeon, E. A. Newton.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, D. H. Donoghue, J. R. Donoghue.
Ward  —John Delaney, C. H. Heywood, Timothy Merrick.
Ward  —Horace Brown, Chester Strong, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk—E. A. Ramsey.
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
City Messenger—J. H. Clifford.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM B. C. PEARSONS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —Wilham Ruddy. o—Maurice Lynch.
 —C. B. Harris.  —C. H. Heywood.
 —H. Springborn.  —J. F. Allen.
 —S. J. Donoghue. Clerk, I. A. Ramsey ,
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, G. H. Smith.

Ward  —James Barnes, John Moore, A. B. Tower.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, G. H. Smith, FE. Whitaker.
Ward  —Joseph Mellor, J. N. Thayer, J. S. Webber.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Daniel Ford, V. J. O'Donnell.
Ward  —B. F. Bigelow, Michael Downing, D. M. Manning
Ward  —A. D. Barker, J. E. Delaney, J. H. Newton.
Ward  —H. C. Ewing, S. T. Lyman, Reuben Winchester.
Clerk, C. W. Rider. ,
City Clerk—E. A. Ramesy.
City Treasurer—William Whiting.
City Messenger—J. H. Clifford (deceased), J. R. Howes.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
: Mayor, ROSWELL P. CRAFTS.
ALDERMEN.

Ward. Ward.
 —M. J. Techan.  —D. H. Donoghue.
 —G. H. Smith.  —C. H. Heywood.
 —H. Springborn.*  —G. P. Ellison.

A. Stursburg. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
 —S. J. Donoghue.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. D. Colson.
Ward  —John Ford, Richard Patte, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —Chalmers Chapin, F. P. Goodall, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, J. N. Thayer.
Ward  —C. D. Colson, Michael Lynch, M. M. Mitivier.
Ward  —Michael Cleary, Stephen Maloney, D. E. Sullivan.
Ward  —E. W. Chapin, E. A. Ramsey, Porter Underwood.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk, C. W. Rider.
City Clerk, J. E. Delaney. |
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Resigned.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAMI WHITING.
ALDERMEN.

Ward. Ward.
 —T. S. Grover.  —C. D. Colson.
 —C. B. Harris.*  —D. I. Sullivan.

G. H. Smith.  —William Skinner.
 —A. A. Stursberg.**  —G. P. Iellison.

James Stafford. Clerk, J.  Delaney.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, F. P. Goodall.
Ward  —T. L. Keough, J. W. Moore, W. I. Syms.
Ward  —F. P. Goodall, F. Morrison, Isaac Tirrell.
Ward  —A. G. Rideout, James Stafford, I. F. Sullivan.
Ward  —James P. Casey, T. J. Ryan, Didace Sainte Maric.
Ward  —Stephen Maloney, IE. O’Connor, Thomas Pendergast.
Ward  —Henry C. Cady, J. S. Meltlwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —John Merrick, Edwin Perkins, John Street.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—J. R. Howes.
*Died March **Resigned.
 

  CITY OFFICERS. |
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM WHITING. 
| ALDERMEN. :
Ward. Ward.
 —Wilham Ruddy.  —D. E. Sullivan.
 —F. R. Norton.  —William Skinner.
 —Henry Winkler.  —William S. Perkins.
 —Charles D. Colson. Clerk, J. FE. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN. |
President, John O’Donnell.
Ward  —G. C. Ainslie, James Greeley, John D. Walsh.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, Franklin P. Goodall.
Ward  —John L. Martin, P. J. Sheridan, M. J. Ryan.
Ward  —Victor Guyott, Peter McKeon, T. J. Ryan.
Ward  —Thomas Dillon, Michael Downing, John O’Donnell.
Ward  —H. C. Cady, J. S. McElwain, Levi Perkins.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, Marden W.
Prentiss.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—James R. Howes.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, WILLIAM RUDDY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —John W. Walsh.  —John O'Donnell.
 —F. R. Norton.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —Henry Winkler.  —Williams S. Perkin.
-+—James P. Casey. Clerk, James E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James Greeley. :
Ward  —John Ford, James Greeley, Casper Ranget.
Ward  —John E. Bronson, John B. Hart, George W. Maher.
Ward  —John L. Martin, Patrick J. Sheridan, John McDonald.
Ward  —Peter Bonvouloir, Cornelius D. Geran, Timothy J.
Ryan.
Ward  —NMlichael Cleary, Michael Downing, Timothy Haley.
Ward  —Charles B. Davis, Hervey K. Hawes, Edwin A.
Whiting.
Ward  —Berijah H. Kagwin, Origen H. Merrick, John B.
Munn.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, FRANKLIN P. GOODALL.
ALDERMEN. |
Ward. Ward.
 —Casper Ranger.  —D. J. Landers.
 —Fred Morrison.  —E. A. Whiting.
 —P. J. Sheridan.  —R. Winchester.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
} President, Hervey Kk. Hawes.
Ward  —Mlichael Collins, James Greeley, Samuel Chapman.
Ward  —Royal C. Dickinson, Sumner T. Miller, Dwight O.
Judd.

Ward  —Herbert Hicks, Lyman Thorpe, Charles R. Huebler.
Ward  —George Hart, Cornelius D. Geran, Dennis E. Herbert.
Ward  —James S. Lee, John F. Shea, Thomas Pendergast.

| Ward  —Amos Andrews, Hervey K. Hawes, Henry H. Smith.
Ward  —Charles C. Hastings, Lyman B. Moore, John B.

Munn.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
Citv Clerk—James IX. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
. City Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ROSWELL P. CRAFTS.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O'Donnell.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  —William A. Chase.
 —C. R. Huebler.  —W. T. Dean.
 —-Thomas Dillon. Clerk, J. E. Delaney.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Amos Andrews.

Ward  —William Brennan, James Spillane, William H. Jess.
Ward  —E. R. Pierce, Joseph Beauchemin, George W. Richards
Ward  —J. kK. McCarthy, D. Driscoll, W. E. O'Keefe.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, P. J. O'Connor, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —Nlaurice Lynch, Thomas Pendergast, Michael O’ Keefe.
Ward  —Amos Andrews, H. H. Smith, Joseph A. Snell.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, L. L. Hooker, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk, J. F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—James E. Delaney.
City Treasurer—C. W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

  CITY OFFICERS.
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ROSWELL P. CRAFTS.
ALDERMEN. ,
Ward. Ward.
 —Casper Ranger.  —John O’Donnell.
 —TIsaac Tirrell.  —Charles A. Corser.
 —John T. Lynch.  —W. T. Dean.
 —Thomas Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —William H. Jess, John Sheridan, M. C. Browne.
Ward  —Pierre Benoit, George W. Richards, C. O. Warner.
Ward  —J. K. McCarthy, D. W. Driscoll, Peter J. Westphal.
Ward  —Dennis E. Herbert, Frank S. Lynch, J. J. Prew.
Ward  —P. J. Landers, John O’Connell, William Sullivan.
Ward  —Joseph Snell, C. P. Lyman, E. P. Ford.
Ward  —C. C. Hastings, D. H. Ives, A. N. Ricker.
Clerk, Simon Brooks.
City Clerk—Mlichael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.
City Messenger—Charles M. Hackett.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES Ek. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —James Greeley.  —E. O’Connor.
 —Isaac Tirrell.  —Elias P. Ford.
 —John T. Lynch.  —C. C. Hastings.
 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin. .
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Roger P. Donoghue.

Ward  —John Moore, M. F. Sullivan, W. A. Casey. |
Ward  —George W. Richards, Didace Sainte Marie, Thomas
H. Sears. ,

Ward  —John Lowcock, John Jack, Blaise Borlen.

Ward  —William Sullivan,* Matthew Doherty, Thomas
Donnell, Amedee F. Gingras.

Ward  —Roger P. Donoghue, Thomas J. Carmody, Michael
Manning.

Ward  —Charles P. Lyman, Eli I. Brockett, John J. Reardon.

Ward  —Frank L. Buck, Robert T. Prentiss, Samuel M. Gilmore.

Clerk, John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.

City Treasurer—Charles W. Ranlet.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

*Died November .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 -—William Reardon. d—R. P. Donoghue.
 —Thomas H. Sears.  —Ehi I. Brockett.
 —John K. McCarthy.  —John I. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Carmody.

Ward  —John J. Sheridan, William A. Casey, J. G. McCarthy.
Ward  —John C. Smith, George W. Richards, M. F. Dovle.
Ward  —Blaise Borlen, Charles Brueck, James F. Canavan.
Ward  —Thomas O'Donnell, P. F. Carmody, Matthew Doherty.
Ward  —T. J. Carmody, James S. Lee, Thomas T. Fitzgerald.
Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, C. H. Whiting, John L. Burlingame.
Ward  —John k. Judd, S. B. Allvn, S. M. Gilmore,* George

W. Doane.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Mlichael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—E. L. Munn.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

*Resigned.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O}CONNOR. ,
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —J. J. Sheridan.  —R. P. Donoghue.
 —Francis J. Curley.  —William E. Syms.
 —James J. Curran.  —John E. Clark.
 —John J. Prew. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
] COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John K. Judd.
Ward  —James C. Keough, William A. Casey, Jeremiah G.
NicCarthy.
Ward  —James H. Fitzsimmons, Edward Donoghue, James
W. Toole.
Ward  —Bruno Ezold, James T. Cunningham, Peter J. Westphal.
Ward  —James H. Sullivan, Michael F. Manning, Matthew
- Doherty.
Ward  —James F. Cleary, John J. Casey, Thomas F. Greaney.
Ward  —Andrew Buchanan, Charles H. Whiting, Charles L.
Newcomb.
Ward  —John k. Judd, George W. Doane, Arthur M. Cain.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Oscar Ely.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. O.;CONNOR.
ALDERMEN.

Ward. Ward.

 —William H. Jess.  —James F. Cleary.

 —James W. Toole.  —William E. Syms.

 —Henry Winkler.  —John Hildreth.

 —John Dillon. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.

COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, James C. Keough.

Ward  —James C. Keough, Dennis J. Sullivan, Bartholomew
J. Lynch.

Ward  —Edward Dotahue, Thomas J. Gibson, Nazaire Beliveau.

Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Charles W.
Bluemer. |

Ward  —Nlaurice Sullivan, Thomas Connor, Louis §. Paquette

Ward  —John J. Casey, Michael J. Lavelle, John Dillon.

Ward  —Charles L. Newcomb, Henry E. McElwain, J. Sanford Webber.

Ward  —Arthur M. Cain, George L. Thorpe, Richard G..
Kilduff.

Clerk, John F. Stapleton.

City Clerk—Mlichael J. Griffin. ;

City Treasurer—[dwin L. Munn.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

. CITY OFFICERS  
| CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES E. DELANEY.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
I—L. F. Hayward, Jr.  —H. E. McElwain.
 —J. W. Toole.  —C. L. Newcomb.
 —H. Winkler.*  —John Hildreth.
M. Manning. Clerk, M. J. Griffin. |
 —John Dillon.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Michael J. Lavelle.
Ward  —Dennis J. Sullivan, John J. Keough, John Bleasius.
Ward  —Thomas J. Gibson, W. P. Buckley, Nazaire Beliveau.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, John P. Hanley, Clyde C. Kelly.
Ward  —John B. Laroche, Michael J. Lavelle, Dennis E.
Herbert.
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Dennie L. Farr, Justin D. Perkins.
Ward  —Charles L. Allen, Lucius Ely, Frank A. Rivers.
Ward  —George L. Thorpe, John Longeway, Jr., George V.
Osgood.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Michael J. Griffin. ,
City Treasurer—Edwin L. Munn.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigned June  .

  CITY OFFICERS. .
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —John C. Sullivan. d—Richard Shea.
 —William P. Buckley.  —Dennie L. Farr.
 —Gceorge Spamer. i—k. L. Squier.  —Thomas J. Carmody. Clerk, ML. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, J. J. Callanan,
Ward  —John J. Keough, J. A. Peltier, T. H. Breen.
Ward  —Joseph A. Murray, F. St. Martin, Thomas J. Kennedy.
Ward  —James F. Canavan, Onesime Viens, John J. Tavlor.
Ward  —Partick Brennan, Napoleon Aubertin, Eugene Shea.
Ward  —Thomas Connor, Jeremiah J. Callanan, J. W. Doran.
Ward  —Lucius Ely, C. L. Allen, James L. Davis.
Ward  —Frederick C. Steele, Roland T. Oakes, George V.
Osgood.
Clerk, Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Nlichael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Idwin L. Munn.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward. :
I—NI. P. Conway.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —J. Beauchemin.  —C. D. Colson.
 —George Spamer.  —E. L. Squier.
 —N. J. Baker. Clerk, M. J. Griffin.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas Connor.
Ward  —William Brockway, Joseph A. Peltier, Nlaurice J.
Sullivan.
Ward  —Thomas J. Kennedy, Joseph A. Murray, C. O'Leary.
Ward  —Herman Heinritz, John J. Tavlor, Onesime Viens.
Ward  —Patrick Brennan, John J. Prentiss, Eugene Shea.
Ward  —Joseph Bardwell, Thomas Connor, Charles N{cCollister.
Ward  —L.ucius Ely, Stephen E. Gifford, Mederic J. LaPorte.
Ward  —Roland T. Oakes, George V. Osgood, Frederick C.
Steele.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton. ,
City Clerk—Mlichael J. Griffin.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS. .
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MICHAEL J. GRIFFIN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —M. P. Conway.  —J. J. Callanan.
 —T. J. Kennedy.  —J. P. Prescott.
 —Mflichael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —R. P. Donoghue. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
| COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Thomas J. Dillon.
Ward  —William Brockway, John H. Ryan, Maurice J. Sullivan.
Ward  —John Black, Arthur B. C. DeLaunay, Cornelius
O'Leary.
Ward  —NMax G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perrault, Albert C. Renner.
Ward  —Napoleon Aubertin, Thomas J. Dillon, Eugene Shea.
Ward  —John E. Burke, Richard A. Doran, Daniel J. O’Connell.
Ward  —Nlederic J. Laporte, Stephen E. Gifford, John B. Miller.
Ward  —Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. M{cCollister, Henry
D. Williams.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Dennie L. Farr.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JEREMIAH F. SULLIVAN.
ALDERMEN.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Haney.  —A. Higginbottom.
 —Antoine Narcott.  —M{. J. Laporte.
 —Michael Connors.  —F. C. Steele.
 —-Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Henry D. Williams.
Ward  —Joseph Hebert, Henry L. Mohan, John H. Rvan.
Ward  —John Black, Joseph Blair, Fred Daze.
Ward  —Max G. Burkhardt, Ulric Perreault, Paul Schubach.
Ward  —I*rank O. Blanchette, Eugene Shea, Daniel P. Sullivan.
Ward  —Wilham L. Bishop, Patrick H. Brennan, William B.
Miles.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, George [X. Pickup, Frank C.
Webber.
Ward  Lawrence H. Fortier, Charles H. McCollister, Henry
D. Williams.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—-Thomas D. O'Brien.
City Treasurer-—Dennie L. Farr.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, DENNIE L. FARR.
ALDERMEN. |
President, Michael Connors.
Ward. Ward.
 —William Haney.  —J. J. Callahan.
 —Fred St. Martin.  —M. J. Laporte.
 Michael Connors,  —R. B. Holmes.
 —T. J. Dillon. Clerk, T. D. O’Brien.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Patrick Gear, Joseph Hebert, David H. Toole.
Ward  —Joseph C. Blair, Thomas J. Kennedy, Cyril T. Labrecque.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest R.
Tauscher.
Ward  —Thomas Fitzgerald, Patrick J. O’Connor, Daniel P.
Sullivan.
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J. Linehan.
Ward  —Fred H. Gilpatrick, John Naylor, Frank C. Webber.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M. Hartzell.
Clerk, John F. Stapleton.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Piere Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, MARCIENE H. WHITCOMB.
ALDERMEN.
President, Rufus B. Holmes.
Ward. Ward.
 —T. J. Lynch.  —R. S. Burns.
 —F. St. Martin.  —James A. Allyn.
 —Nfichael Connors.  —R. B. Holmes.
 —P. W. Shea. Clerk, T. D. O’Bren.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Octave Perrault, David H. Toole, *John Daly, James
Wall.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —Max Bretschneider, Victor S. Laplante, Ernest
Tauscher.
Ward  —Frank Fitzgerald, Thomas Fitzgerald, Anthyme S.
Menard.
Ward  —Salime J. Benoit, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J. Linehan.
Ward  —E Ibert Goss, Frederick N. Ricker, Edward N. White.
Ward  —Azro A. Coburn, Edwin B. Evans, Charles M. Hartzell
Clerk, Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—Thomas D. O’Brien.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
*Resigned.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, HENRY A. CHASE. |
ALDERMEN.
President, John Wall.
Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Richard S. Burns.
 —F red St. Martin.  —John Wall.
 —Richard H. Dietz.  —George H. Lynds.
 —Thomas J. Lynch. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, John L. Connor.
Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O'Leary.
Ward  —Fred Gervais, Fred A. Monat, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —John H. Donoghue, Victor S. Laplante, William J.
Mahoney.
Ward  —John J. McIntee, John P. Sullivan, John F. Sullivan.
Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, John L. Connor, Jeremiah J.
Linehan.
Ward  —Edwin MI. Chase, Elbert Goss, Celeb J. Humeston.
Ward  —Conrad V. Hein, Charles P. Randall, William O.
White.
Clerk, Daniel W. Kenney.
City Clerk—KEdward A. Kane. .
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JAMES J. CURRAN.
ALDERMEN.
President, Timothy J. Lynch.
Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —Fred Gervais.  —Elbert Goss.
 —Adam L.eining.  —Frank Geather.
 —Patrick W. Shea. Clerk, Edward A. Kane.
COMMON COUNCILMEN.
President, Patrick H. Prendiville.
Ward  —Edward D. Bunyan, Patrick F. Flynn, Dennis
O’Leary. :
Ward  —Joseph Beaudry, Jr., Henry P. Cunningham, Patrick 
H. Prendiville. |
Ward  —John H. Connor, William J. Mahoney, Patrick W.
O’Rouke.
Ward  —William J. Dillon, John J. MecIntee, John J. Riley.
Ward  —Edmund H. Alger, Idward J. Kenney, William
O'Connell.
' Ward  —William D. Bunnell, Thomas H. Kearney, Henry
Reed.
Ward  —James Collingwood, Charles P. Randall, Homer J.
Stratton.
Clerk, John P. McTigue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh. .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, GEORGE H. SMITH.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur MI. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.
Patrick E. Donoghue. Hugh MeLean.
Arthur MM. French. Daniel Proulx.
Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Salime J. Benoit. William J. Ryan.
Archibald Ferguson, Sr. George A. Savoy.
Morris Hicks. James H. Staples.
Peter J. Westphal.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward. ,
 —Timothy J. Lynch.  —Jeremiah J. Linehan.
 —F red Gervais.  —E bert Goss.
 —Frank Feather.  —Charles P. Randall.
 —Patrick J. O'Connor.
City Clerk—Itdward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
Citv Messenger—W illiam T. Walsh.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, MICHAEL CONNORS.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Hugh \MIcLean.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
Edward L. Cassidy. Wilham J. Ryan.

Peter J. Westphal.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Henry A. Collings. Adam Leining.
Patrick F. Donoghue. Hugh Mel.ean.
Arthur Mf. French. Daniel Proulx.

Homer J. Stratton.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. d—Mlichael J. Doyle.
 —Samuel Migneault.  —-Elbert Goss.
 —F'rank Feather.  —James H. Wylie, Jr.
 —James S. Lacey.
Citv Clerk—Eedward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Picrre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—Wilham T. Walsh. .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur M. French. Hugh Mc Lean.
Adam Leining. William McCorkindale.
Edwin L. Squier.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
Joseph Beaudry, Jr. J. Joseph Doran.
William D. Bunnell. Archibald Ferguson, Sr.
edward L. Cassidy. William J. Ryan.

Peter J. Westphal.

ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Timothy J. Lynch. j—Michael J. Doyle.
 —Samuel Migneault.  —William G. Beaudo.
 —NMioritz E. Ruther.  —Frank B. Towne.
 —Joseph A. O'Donnell.
City Clerk—ldward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City A\lessenger—W illiam T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees.—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Arthur M{. French.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Patrick F. Donoghue. Joseph A. Marin.
Arthur AI. French. William MeCorkindale.
Adam Leining. Hugh McLean.
Edwin L. Squier.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —John P. NicTigue. d—Nlichael J. Doyle.
 —Arthur R. Vincent.  —William G. Beaudro.
 —Herbert C. Clark.  —Frank B. Towne.
 —Florence Donoghue.
City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Michael J. Dovle.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS). .
William G. Beaudro. John J. Finn.
Edward F. Dowd. Charles S. Hemingway.
William O. Ducharme. James M. Kennedy.
| William McCorkingdale.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
J. Joseph Doran. Adelard M. Potvin.
Jeremiah J. Farrell. John Stalker.
John K. Judd. Frank C. Webber.
Marciene H. Whitcomb.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
 —Dennis O'Leary.  —Michael J. Doyle.
 —Eugene Laramy.  —John C. Carlin.
 —-John R. Allan.  —Frank B. Towne.
 -——Florence Donoghue.

City Clerk—Edward A. Kane.*

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.**

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvoulorr.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—-John C. Doran.

*Died April .

**Elected City Clerk by Board of Aldermen April .

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell.
George B. Noonan. Adelard MI. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker. .
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Charles  S. Hemingway. Edward F. Dowd.
William O. Ducharme. Wilham G. Beaudro.
John J. Finn. James NI. Kennedy.
Wilham MecCorkingdale.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
 —Dennis O'Leary. —ITcugene F. Kane. |
 —Eugene Laramay.  —John G. Deardon.
 —Leon Bliss.  —Thomas W. Holley.
 —Alexander O’Brien.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
William G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James MM. Kennedy.
Wilham Lambert.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
George Barnett. Jeremiah J. Farrell. |
George B. Noonan. Adelard M. Potvin.
John D. Ryan. John Stalker.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —-Patrick J. Sullivan.  —Eugene F. Kane.
 —Teugene Laramay.  —James T. Devine.
 —Leon W. Bliss.  —Thomas W. Holley.
 —John T. Sheehan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, ARTHUR B. CHAPIN.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
John R. Allan. William A. Allyn.
Wilham G. Beaudro. Ira J. Humes.
Michael J. Kearns. James M. Kennedy.
William Lambert.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Patrick J. Sullivan.  —John J. White.
 —Victor S. Laplante.  —Herbert E. Ainley.
 —William F. Wicks.  —Robert P. Cunningham.
 —Henry J. Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
| Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
John R. Allan. Ira J. Humes.
Wilham A. Allyn. Michael J. Kearns.
William J. Cray. James M. Kennedy.
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
George Barnett. Martin J. Leary.
Leon W. Bliss. George B. Noonan.
Eugene Laramay. Richard P. Stapleton.
Frank C. Webber.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS

Ward. Ward.
 —Samuel N. Bogart.  —Richard Connor.
 —Victor  Laplante.  —Herbert E. Ainley.
 —William F. Wicks.  —Robert P. Cunningham.
 —J. Henry Sullivan.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Herbert IE. Ainley. James T. Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Noonan.
Frederick Childs. Henrv J. Soutiere.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
William A. Allyn. Tra J. Humes.
William J. Cray. Michael J. Kearns.
John R. Allan.* James M. Kennedy.
Thomas H. Finn.** James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.

*  J—Dennis O'Leary. d—Richard Connor.
 —Frank Rainault.  —Frank Linnehan.
 —William F. Wicks.  —Jesse I. Sheldon.

 —J. Henry Sullivan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Resigned February .
**E lected by the Board of Aldermen February .

  CITY OFFICERS,

CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .

Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
Leon W. Bliss. Israel Ducharme.
George R. Burns. James M. Kennedy.
William J. Cray. John D. Ryan.
James J. Sullivan.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Herbert FE. Ainley. James T. Devine.
George Barnett. George B. Noonan.
Frederick Childs. Henry J. Soutiere.

Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
I—Dennis O'Leary.  —Richard Connor.
 —Frank Rainault.  —Leander C. Hartzell.
 —Thomas A. Bray.  —Jesse E. Sheldon.
 —Jeremiah J. Slattery.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, James M. Kennedy.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
Herbert FE. Ainley. Wilham G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
Thomas E. Begley. James T. Devine.
Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
Leon W. Bliss. Israel Ducharme.
George R. Burns. James M. Kennedy.
William J. Crav. John D. Ryan.
James J. Sullivan.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
 —Thomas H. Finn. do—John J. White.
 —Alfred F. Cousineau.  —Allan J. Malcolm.
 —Thomas A. Bray.  —Philip M. Judd.
 —Jeremiah J. Slattery.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger.—William Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—-John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President Board of Aldermen, George Barnett.*
Philip M. Judd.**

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
George R. Burns. Emil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Butcher. Israel Ducharme.
William J. Cray. Ira J. Humes.

James E. Jagger.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Herbert I. Ainley. William G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
Thomas I. Begley. James T. Devine.

Samuel C. Warner.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
 —Thomas H. Finn.  —John J. White.
 —Alfred F. Cousineau.  —Allan J. Malcolm.
 —Otto F. Richter.  —Philip M. Judd.
 —Jeremiah J. Slattery. .

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger.—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

*Resigned August .

** Elected by the Board of Aldermen August .

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, NATHAN P. AVERY.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Philip M. Judd.
: ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
Albert Archambault. William G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
John P. Bleasius. James T. Devine.
Maurice Lynch.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
George R. Burns. Emil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Butcher. Israel Ducharme.
William J. Cray. Ira J. Humes.

James E. Jagger.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward. :
 —Thomas H. Finn.*  —Jeremiah J. Slattery.
i—Peter NMecGuire.**  —John J. White.
 —Alfred F. Cousineau.  §—John Sheehan. —Otto F. Richter.  —Phihp M. Judd.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir. 
City Messenger—W illiam T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.
*Resigned February .
**E lected by Board of Aldermen February .

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, JOHN J. WHITE.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Israel Ducharme.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
William E. Bosworth. Jemil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Butcher. Israel Ducharme.
Alfred F. Cousineau. Daniel F. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
Albert Archambault. Wilham G. Cantin.
George Barnett. Frederick Childs.
John P. Bleasius. James T. Devine.
Maurice Lynch.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Terence A. Reilly. j—Joseph F. Griffin.
 —Ulric Blanchard.  —John H. Sheehan.
 —August W. Bev.  —Wilham L. Foote.
 —James P. Rohan.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City \lessenger—W illiam T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, JOHN J. WHITE.
President of the Board of Aldermen, Israel Ducharme.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).

William Ie. Bosworth. Emil F. Dreicorn.
Samuel Butcher. Israel Ducharme.
Alfred F. Cousineau. Daniel F. Shea.

Henry F. Thorpe.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Herbert I. Ainley. William G. Cantin.
Albert Archambault. Frederick Childs.

John P. Bleasius. James I. Crean.
John Stalker.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
I—Louis EF. Emery.  —NMlichael J. Gleason.
 —Ulric Blanchard.  —James T. Cahill.
 —Joseph M. Toepfert.  —Wilham L. Foote.
 —James P. Rohan.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

Citv Messenger—Wilhiam T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mavor, JOHN J. WHITE.
President of the Board of Aldermen, William E. Bosworth.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
William E. Bosworth. Daniel Long.
Joseph IF. Griffin. John T. Regan.
L. Alphonse Laporte. Daniel IF. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
Albert Archambault. William G. Cantin.
John P. Bleasius. Frederick Childs.
James P. Rohan. James E. Crean.

John Stalker.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward. Ward.
 —William Norton.  —Mlichael J. Gleason.
 —Charles I. Boudreau.  —Richard M. Powers.
 —Joseph AM. Toepfert.  —John S. Clarke.
 —Cornehus J. Millane.

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY COVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JOHN H. WOODS.
President of the Board of Aldermen, John P. Bleasius.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.) .
Albert Archambault. James E. Crean.
John P. Bleasius. Edward F. Dowd.
Frederick Childs. John Stalker.
Archibald Ferguson.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR).
William E. Bosworth. Daniel Long.
Joseph F. Griffin. John T. Regan. |
L. Alphonse Laporte. Daniel F. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe.
ALDERMEN BX WARDS
Ward. Ward.
 —Eugene T. O'Neill.  —James F. Sweeney.
 —Samuel Grandchamp.  —William T. Barry.
 —Joseph M. Toepfert.  —John S. Clarke.
 —Charles F. McMahon.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan. |
Assistant City Clerk—Daniel J. Hartnett.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY OFFICERS.
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor, JOHN H. WOODS.
President of the Board of Aldermen, William E. Bosworth.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS).
William E. Bosworth. L. Alphonse Laporte.
William G. Cantin. Daniel Long.
Joseph F. Griffin. Daniel F. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe.
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
Albert Archambault. James E. Crean.
John P. Bleasius. Edward F. Dowd.
Frederick Childs. Archibald Ferguson.
John Stalker.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.
Ward. Ward.
 —Louis H. Provost.  —James F. Sweeney
 —Peter L. Jarry.  —George Hamel.
 —Joseph M. Toepfert.  —Samuel O. Hoyt.
 —Charles F. McMahon.
City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.
Assistant City Clerk—Daniel J. Hartnett.
City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.
City Messenger.—William T. Walsh.
Clerk of Committees.—John C. Doran

CITY OFFICERS.  
CITY GOVERNMENT FOR  .
Mayor JOHN J. WHITE.
President of the Board of Aldermen, William IE. Bosworth
ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR TWO YEARS.)
Frederick Childs. William MM. Hart.
George Hamel. Cornelius A. Hurley.
John Stalker. Harry R. Sackett.
Cornelius M. Donnelly.

ALDERMEN AT LARGE (FOR ONE YEAR.)
William E. Bosworth. L. Alphonse Laporte.
William G. Cantin. Daniel Long.

Joseph F. Griffin. Daniel F. Shea.
Henry F. Thorpe.
ALDERMEN BY WARDS.

Ward Ward
 —Daniel J. Russell.  —James F. Sweeney.
 —Peter L. Jarry.  —Daniel J. Kelly.
 —Emil W. Kroepel.  —Samuel O. Hoyt.
 —Charles F. McMahon

City Clerk—John F. Sheehan.

Asst. City Clerk—Daniel J. Hartnett.

City Treasurer—Pierre Bonvouloir.

City Messenger—William T. Walsh.

Clerk of Committees—John C. Doran.

  CITY ORDINANCES.
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.
AN ORDINANCE :
Preventing the Throwing or Sweeping into the Streets or Ways
of Certain Materials.
Be it Ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of [Tolyoke,
as folloces.

Section  No person shall throw or sweep into, or place
or drop and suffer to remain in any street or alley, any piece
of hoop, board, wood, paper, or any sweepings, sawdust, soot,
ashes, cinders, shavings, hair, manure, oyster shell, clam shell,
lobster shell, fish head, fish tail, fish entrails or fish refuse, card,
handbill, circular, pamphlet, or rubbish or filth of any kind,
or any noxious refuse liquid or solid matter or substance.

Section  All ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting herewith are hereby repealed.

Section  Whoever violates the provisions of this ordinance shall be punished by fine not exding twenty dollars for each offence. ,

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its passage.
Approved May .

Attest:

JOHN F. SHEEHAN, City Clerk.
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.
AN ORDINANCE.
To amend Chapter of the Revised Ordinances of  .

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,

as follows:

Section  Section of Chapter of the Revised Ordinar.ces of is hereby amended by striking out said section

CITY ORDINANCES.  
and inserting in place thereof the following:—Section  No
keeper of such shop and no junk collector shall, directly or indirectly, either purchase or receive by way of barter or exchange any of che articles aforesaid of minor or apprentice,
knowing or having reason to believe him to be such; and no
article purchased or received by such shopkeeper shall be sold
until at least thirty days from the date of its purchase or receipt
has clapsed. Every person licensed as junk collector under
the provisions of Sections and of this chapter shall keep a
book and record therein all the facts required by section of
this chapter and be subject to the provisions of section  and
no article purchased or received by such junk collector shall
be sold by such collector until at least seven davs from the date |
of its purchase or receipt has elapsed.

Section  Any ordinance or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its passage.

Approved May .
Attest:
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, City Clerk.
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.

Amended Ordinance relative to Hawkers and Peddlers.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,
as follows:

Section  Section of Chapter of the Revised Ordinances of of the City of Holyoke, as amended by an ordinance passed by the Board of Aldermen December ,
is hereby further amended by striking out said section and
said amendment thereto and inserting in place thereof the following: “Section  No person shall sell or expose for sale
as hawker and peddler in this city any fruits or vegetables
unless he is duly licensed therefor by the Board of Aldermen.”

Section  Section of said Chapter  as amended by
an ordinance passed by the Board of Aldermen December  ,

  CITY ORDINANCES.
 is hereby further amended by striking out said section
  and said amendment thereto and inserting in place thereof
the following: “Section  The Board of Aldermen may grant
a license to any person of good repute for morals and integrity
and after the applicant has presented certificate from the
Sealer of Weights and Measures stating that all weighing and
measuring devices intended to be used by such person have
been duly inspected and sealed as required by law, and upon
other conditions as they may deem expedient, and may revoke
the same at their discretion, and the record of the license as
granted shall be kept by the City Marshal. The use of and
possession by such person with intent to use any false or unsealed weighing and measuring device shall be sufficient cause for the
revocation of his license or the cancellation of his registration.”
Section  Section of said Chapter is hereby amended
by striking out said section and inserting in place thereof the
following: “‘Section  All licenses granted shall expire one
year from date of issue, unless sooner revoked, and no license
shall be transferable. For every license so granted there shall
be paid to the City Clerk the sum of fifteen dollars for
the use of the City.”

Section  Section of said Chapter is hereby amended
by striking out said section and inserting in place thereof the
following: “‘Section  Every person licensed to peddle as
aforesaid shall be assigned number by the City Marshal;
shall be provided by the City Marshal with badge, bearing
such number, of such type and design as may be approved
by the Board of Aldermen, and it shall be conspiciously worn
by the person to whom it is issued; shall be provided by the
City Marshal with number plate of such type and design as
is approved by the Board of Aldermen, the number and date
of expiration of such license shall be attached to each side of
every vehicle or receptacle used by the licensee as conveyance
of articles offered for sale by him; and, when his license is demanded of him by any police officer or the Sealer of Weights
and Measures, he shall forthwith exhibit it, and, if he neglects

CITY ORDINANCES.  
or refuses so to do, he shall be subject to the same penalty as
if he had no license.”

Approved May .
Attest:
JOHN F. SHELHAN, City Clerk. ;
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.

AN ORDINANCE.

Relating to the Inspection of Buildings and the Prevention
of Fires.

Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of thé City of Holyoke, as
follows.

Section  It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire
Department or any member of said Department designated
by him, from time to time to enter upon and into any premises,
building, structure, or alley way within the corporate limits
of the City of Holyoke for the purpose of examining and inspecting the same to ascertain the condition thereof with regard to the presence, arrangement or deposit of any articles,
materials, substances, goods, wares, or merchandise which may
have tendency to create danger in case of fire on or in the
same, or personal injury to or loss of life of the occupants of
or persons on or in said premises, building or structure; also with
regard to the condition, size, arrangement and efficiency of any
and all appliances for protection against fire on or in such
premises, building or structure.

Section  If he shall find on such inspection of such
premises, building or structure, any rubbish, debris, waste or
inflamable or combustible materials, and that the same is not
so arranged or disposed as to afford reasonable safeguard
against the dangers of fire, or if he shall find that the articles,
materials, goods, wares and merchandise on or in said premises,
building or structure are so arranged and disposed that the occupants thereof or persons rightfully on or in the same would

  CITY ORDINANCES.

not, because of such arrangement and disposition, be afforded
reasonable access to the exits of said premises, building or
structure in case of fire, or if he shall find that by reason of
such arrangement or disposition the members of the Fire Department would unnecessarily and unreasonably be interferred
with in the exercise of their duties in and about such premises,
building or stucture in case of fire in the same, he may order
in writing the removal of such rubbish, debris, waste or inflamable or combustible materials from said premises, building or structure, or the disposing and arranging of the same
on or in said premises, building or structure in such manner
as will remove such danger from fire. He may also order in
writing that such articles, materials, goods, wares or merchandise be so arranged and disposed on or in said premises, building or structure that the occupants thereof, or the persons
rightfully on or in the same, will be afforded all reasonable
access to the exits from the same in case of fire, and the members
of the Fire Department will be afforded all reasonable facilities for the discharge of their duties in and about said premises,
building or stucture in case of fire.

Section  If he shall find thac the appliances on or in
such premises, building or structure for protection against fire
are not in proper condition, or of insufficient size or number,
or are otherwise insufficient for the purpose for which the same
are designed and intended, or if he shall find that such appliances are reasonably necessary for the protection of such premises, building or structure and are wholly wanting, he shall
order, in the case of such improper condition or insufficiency,
that the same be placed in proper condition and rendered reasonably sufficient co afford reasonable protection against fire,
and in the case of absence of such appliances where he may
find that they are reasonably necessary for protection against
fire, he shall order the installation of appliances sufficient to
afford such reasonable protection in case of fire to said premises,
building or structure and to the occupants thereof or persons
rightfully on or in the same.

Section  The Chief of the Fire Department hereby is

CITY ORDINANCES.  
empowered and authorized to appoint such and as many deputies to make the inspections hereinbefore provided for, who
shall report in writing the results of their inspections to the
Chief of the Fire Department and who are hereby empowered
and authorized to make such orders in respect to the conditions
found by them on inspection as are hereby authorized to be
made by che Chief of the Fire Department. Should any owner,
lessee or occupant of any premises, building or structure or
the owner or person in control of any materials, goods, wares
or merchandise consider themselves agrieved by such order
of such deputy, he may, within twenty-four hours after the
said order has been served on him, appeal to the Chief of the
Fire Department, who shall thereupon make such order in the

| premises as in his discretion he may deem right and reasonable,
and said order shall be final.

Section  Such order or orders hereinbefore mentioned
shall be directed to the owner, lessee or occupant of such premises, building or structure, or to the person in control of the
articles, materials, goods, wares or merchandise herein re) ferred to, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may
require, and it is hereby made the duty of such owner, lessee
or occupant of such premises, building or structure, and of
such person in control of such articles, materials, goods, wares
and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with such
order or orders with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.

Section  Any owner, lessee or occupant of such builing, premises or structure or any person in control of such articles, materials, goods, wares and merchandise as hereinabove
referred to, or the owner thereof, who shall fail or neglect to
discharge the duties imposed by this ordinance and the orders
of the Chief of the Fire Department, or the deputies appointed
by him under this ordinance, on conviction thereof, shall be
subject to fine of not more than Twenty Dollars.

Section  The terms ‘‘owner,” “lessee,” ‘‘occupant,”
“person in control of” as used in the foregoing, shall be con  CITY ORDINANCES.
strued to include the plural, as well as the singular, and artificial persons as well as real. |
Approved July .
Attest:
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, City Clerk.
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.

AN ORDINANCE
To Amend Chapter of the Revised Ordinances of  .
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,
as follows.

Section  Section of Chapter of the Revised Ordinances of is hereby amended by adding at the end of
said section the following; “lor every license granted under
the provisions of sections and of this ordinance there shall
be paid to the City Clerk, the sum of twenty-five dollars for
the use of the city’, so that said section shall read as follows :—
Section  Tor every license granted under chis ordinance
to dealer in, or keeper of shop forthe purpose, sale or barter
of, junk or old metals, there shall be paid to the City Clerk,
the sum of twenty-five dollars for the use of the city. For every
license granted under the provisions of sections and of this
ordinance there shall be paid to the City Clerk, the sum of
twenty-five dollars for the use of the city.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its
passage.

Approved July .
Attest:
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, City Clerk.

CITY ORDINANCES.  
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.
AN ORDINANCE
To Amend Section  Chapter of the Revised Ordinances
of the City of Holyoke.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,
as follows. |

Section  Section of Chapter of the Revised Ordinances shall not apply to the street proposed to be laid out
upon the following described land in said Holyoke:

Beginning at the southwesterly corner of the City Hall lot
on the easterly side of High street, being the southerly side of
the alley or common passageway running from High street to
Railroad street and the northwesterly corner of the J. R. Smith
property, so called, said point being two hundred and forty
( feet southerly from the southerly side of Dwight street;
thence running easterly and at right angles to the easterly
line of High street three hundred feet to the westerly
line of Railroad street; thence northerly along the westerly

 line of Railroad street and at right angles to the last described
line forty feet, eight inches  ”); thence westerly andat right
angles to the westerly line of Railroad street three hundred
( feet to the easterly line of High street; thence southerly
along the easterly line of High street and at right angles to the
last described line forty feet, eight inches  ”) to the place
of beginning.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its passage. |
Approved Oct. .

Attest:
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, City Clerk.

  CITY ORDINANCES.
CITY OF HOLYOKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.
AN ORDINANCE
To Establish the Salary of the Present Chairman of the Board
of Assessors of Taxes.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,
as folloces:

Section  The salarv of the present Chairman of the
Board of Assessors of Taxes, (Joseph J. Kelly), is hereby established at the rate of Two Thousand Dollars year.

Section  All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

Section  This ordinance shall take etfect upon its
passage.

Approved Dec. .
Attest:
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, City Clerk.
CITY OF HOLYORKE.
In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixteen.
AN ORDINANCE
In Relation to Newton Place.
Be it ordained by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke,
as follozes:

Section  So much of Section of Chapter of the
Revised Ordinances of as is contained in the following
words “No street or highway shall be laid out or established or
accepted by the city of less width than fifty feet”? shall not
apply to Newton Place.

Section  This ordinance shall take effect upon its .
passage.

Approved Dec. .
Attest:
JOHN F. SHEEHAN, City Clerk.

Digitized by Google

|
|
Digitized by Google

| Digitized by Google

Digitized by Google


