MUNICIPAL REGISTER
OF THE
FOR  
Containing the Mayor’s Address
 City Government Roster
Annual Reports
Etc.
PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SEY 
fy Em XN
  —- 
Ges
yon
 

 
Jorgen IDOI
.
Y
i,
MAAVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY
RECLIVED THROUGNW THE
Bu EAU FOR RESEARCH IM
RUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
  |

CONTENTS
- Page
Mayor’s Address ‘) con A,  
City Government,  .- :: ve,  
Standing Committees of the Board of Aldermen.  
City Officers a,  
Election Officers .  
Report of Board of Public Works  
Report of City Engineer  
Report of Public Schools  
Report of Vocational School  
Report of Board of Water Commissioners  
Report of Gas and Electric Department  
Report of Fire Commissioners  
Report of Park Commissioners  
Report of Inspector of Animals   
Report of Planning Board  
Report of City Solicitor  
Report of Sinking Fund Commissioners  
Report of Sealer of Weights and Measures  
Report of City Auditor  
Report of Police Department  
Report of Board of Assessors  
Report of Playground Commissioners.  
Report of Overseers of the Poor  
Report of City Treasurer.  
Report of Board of Health  
Jury List for .  
City Officers Since  
Ordinances .  


INAUGURAL ADDRESS
OF
MAYOR |
City of Holyoke, Massachusetts
) Cin AET
Si E-N
 
re ey
AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE
CITY GOVERNMENT IN JANUARY
NINETEEN HUNDRED SEVENTEEN

|
a —
  
Pe N
 N
—- +
— 
— oe
sl -. ‘Ss *,
ry ey 
Ak ae 
!- WAl a
La eae ;
gy pists o* eZ
“ sates
"  .
. .eer  
Re.  \
] aa ay St at \
| ot m, “a
.  
Heel |
,  *
, Pa? Oe ber? se
 am  Lays 
' ete ‘
- heNe ak
“Odes yo" TA i.
ey  +.
’  Rs
"ee ve) Be
ent aires ey
. te oe ae
. 
et we a
 "See|
i ee
 |
.. |
\ ry ee
\ 
\j
| Ya /
\ /
\ /
\ rhe y/
\ », /,
’ y/
/,
Af
y/
ww y
a Ad
SS Zl
 za
—  

FIFTH INAUGURAL ADDRESS
of JOHN J. WHITE, MAYOR. |
The first inauguration of the city government of Holyoke
took place Monday, January  th,  so that we are today
assembled to witness the forty-third inauguration exercises.
The record of forty-three years ago may be interesting to
the citizens of today and so they are made part of the records
of today’s inauguration:
ORGANIZATION OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT’ OF |
HOLYOKE, JANUARY  th,  .
Order of Exercises.
Ist. Thenames of the City Officers were read and the meeting called to order by Wm. S. Loomis, Esq., Clerk of the
Town of Holyoke.
 nd. Prayer was offered by Rev. J. L. R. Trask.
 rd. Oath of office administered to his Honor, the Mayor
W. B. C. Pearsons, by Wm. S. Loomis, Esq.
 th. Oath of office administered to the City Clerk, Edwin
H. Ramsay, by his Honor, the Mayor.
 th. Roll of Aldermen called by the City Clerk and the
oath administered to them by his Honor, the Mayor.
 th. Roll of Common Council called by the City Clerk
and the oath administered by his Honor, the Mayor.
 th. Transfer of Town Records to the City Clerk and
also of the Town Government to the new City Government with introduction of the Mayor into office, by Wm.
S. Loomis, Esq.
 th. Inaugural Address.
 th. Meeting dissolved at Parson’s Hall, where the above
exercises were held, to meet again at the Appleton St.
School House.
A true record attest:
(Signed) EDWIN H. RAMSAY,
City Clerk

MAYOR’S ADDRESS
A peculiar incident of the changes of time is that the inauguration of the Mayor of took place in Parsons Hall,
where today the box factory of the present Mayor is located.
The population of Holyoke at the end of its first year as
a city was and the cost for all expenses for that year was
: 
Of the above amount,  was distributed between
Highways, bridges, sewers and drains, sidewalks, fuel and street
lighting,  being expended for the bridge on Lyman Street
over the first level canal and  as the City’s share
towards the South Hadley Falls bridge.
Schools came in for expenditures of The Relief Department expended Police  and the
: Fire Department .
Holyoke has indeed grown for during the past year it cost |
for all maintenance the sum of
$  |
Of the above amount the schools, including the vocational
school, cost .
$  
Board of Public Works Department called for the sum of
$ 
The Fire Department comes next, taking ]
|  as its cost to the City.
The Police Department follows with expenses of
$ 
The serious epidemic of infantile paralysis cost
$  |
with still some bills to be presented which will use up practically
all of the Emergency loan which we were obliged to make to
defray the costs of what was undoubtedly the most serious

MAYOR’S ADDRESS. .
epidemic that Holyoke has ever had.
The Relief Department called upon us for the sum of
; 
The balance of the expenses being divided among the smaller
. departments. |
DEBTS.
The net debt of the City, exclusive of the Water Department and the Gas and Electric Department,  s
$ 
The net debt of the Water Department is
, 
The net debt of the Gas and Electric Department is
$ 
The balance due on the Holyoke Westfield Railroad accounts is .
$ 
Our borrowing capacity on December Ist was
$ 
During the year we borrowed
$ 
$  of which was for the infantile paralysis epidemic.
We paid on the loans of the City, including Gas and Electric loan
$ 
$  of which was paid for Gas and Electric loans.
With the appropriating in March of  to the Sinking Fund Account, this portion of the City’s indebtedness is
wiped out and the Sinking Fund and the commissioners com- —
prising it will automatically go out of existence.
It is gratifying to note that despite the reduction of forty
cents per thousand in the tax rate, and the extremely high cost
of labor and materials, we close the year with all bills paid and
a small balance left over.
While dislike to sound discordant note here, we must
look at things right straight in the face, and with theincreases
in salar iesof the School Department, most of which feel are

; MAYOR’S ADDRESS.

| warranted, and with the increases which will undoubtedly
be made in other departments, it may be necessary to increase
the tax rate the coming year, but we will all hope that the increased valuation of the city will be ample to take care of the 
increased expenses. ;

The high cost of living has struck Holyoke as it has all
citiesand towns and the increased cost of practically all commodities used by the City in its various departments added
materially to the cost of maintaining our city for the past year,
and, added to the cost of the commodities, the increases in
salaries helped swell the total cost.

} And we must face the very probable further increase in
expenses the coming year, for we have already numerous petitions for increases in salaries and there is little liklihood of any

appreciable reduction in those things which properly come
under the title of “Commcdities.”’

Streets must be kept in good condition, new streets and
highways must be built. Sewers are in constant demand as
new bui!dings and houses are erected, and sidewalks and curbing are necessity.

Well lighted streets and thoroughfares are essential if |
traveling is to be made safe.

There is urgent need of repairs on practically all bridges :
and it may be necessary to provide for new bridges over the
two canals on Cabot Street. :

During the past year street flusher was purchased which
aided materially in keeping our paved streets in clean condition and was of great help to us in sprinkling the streets and I
recommend the purchase of another flusher this year, which
will do away almost entirely with the old fashioned and extremely slow method of sprinkling with the horse-drawn watering carts.

During the year we have added new motor apparatus to
the Fire Department and also strongly recommend the gradual if not the immediate disposal of all horse-drawn fire appar: atus and the substitution of motor apparatus.
It may be worth investigation as to whether we would not

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
get better results if we discontinued the old style dump carts
in the alley department and substituted motor trucks instead.

| SCHOOLS.

Section of our City Charter reads in part as follows:

“All orders, resolutions or votes of the School
Committee, except those fixing salaries, which
involve the expenditure of money, shall be presented to the Mayor for his approval, and thereupon
the same prodings shall be had by the Mayor
and School Committee as are provided in section
twenty-four of this act to be had by the Mayor
and Board of Alderman.”’

This means that in the matter of salaries to be paid the
School Department, the School Committee is supreme power
and that in other matters involving the expenditure of money,
the Mayor has the power of vetoing any and all orders, but

. upon two-thirds vote of the School Committee the order or
orders become effective despite the veto of the Mavor.

It would appear as though the time had come for “‘show
down” by the School Committee, with view of decreasing
expenses rather than continued increase each vear.

It was back in that the statement was made in the
Board of Aldermen that our School Department seemed anxious
to expend the major portion of the annual appropriation.

It might be wise move to appoint committee of citizens to be known as committee on “Economy and Efficiency”’
and to appoint on that committee men whose standing in the
community would command respect and whose findings would
have weight with both the School Committce and the citizens.

If all is right in our School Department itis well to know it

 and if changes can be made and expenscs reduced the tax payers
and citizens generally would appreciate it.

A table of appropriations to this department for the past
ten years shows that there has been marked increase in cost
while an inspection of enrollment as given here would hardly
indicate good reason for the large increases in expenditures.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
Year Expenditures Enrollment Enrollment Total
Day Schools Evening Schools Enrollment

 

 

 

 

 

  , 

 , 

 

 

  

| It is not my intention to in any way cripple the School
 Department. am of the opinion that our school teachers are
underpaid, at least that portion who come under the head of
“Regulars”, while in the case of some, at least, of those socalled specialists, there seems to be tendency to overpay.

During the past few weeks the statement was made that
certain teachers in special lines were brought from out the city,
contrary to our charter, because there was no one in the city, ,
qualified to fill the positions. think all Holyoke is curious to
know whether or not that statement is absolutely true. |

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Always busy department, this branch of our municipality covers more territory perhaps than any other department.

It has charge of all public buildings, their upkeep, their
heating and the erection of all new buildings.

It has in addition the care of all public strzets, sidewalks,
sewers, lighting of streets and public buildings, care of bridges,
laying out of new streets and all other matters that properly
come before board of this kind.

The recommendation in its annual report as to the care
of our bridges merits our consideration and other recommendations in its report should receive consideration, even though
it may not be possible to adopt all of them this year.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  

I take pleasure in commending this board for the splendid
work it has performed during the past year.

DEPARTMENT OF POLICE.

The past year has seen noticeable decrease of friction
in this department and it is to be hoped that the coming year
will see it entirely gone.

With the increase of ten additional men to the force there
ought to be increased efficiency.

The Marshal makes several recommendations in his report and they will receive our best consideration.

I would recommend that there be established the position of ‘Special Inspector to the Gas and Electric Department”
and that man be assigned permanently to that work and the
cost of same to be paid by the said department. For several
months man has been detailed to that work and has been paid
by the Gas and Electric Department, but this leaves the Police
Department short one regu!ar man and as the work to be performed in the said department is important and should be
permanent, the best resu:ts will be obtained by permanent
appointment.

With the addition to our police force, we shall require an
additional Sergeant and Inspector in order to keep up the department to its present standing of efficiency.

GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.

There has been marked increase in the output of this
department both in gas and electricity during the past year,
over one thousand new electric meters having been installed,
which shows that the people desire the most modern improvemcnts in their homes.

It was not the intention of the citizens when they voted
to take over this plant as municipal institution that it should
make profit from its owners, the people, and while state laws
prescribe that certain rules shall be put into effect, am of the
opinion that the will of the people should come first and that

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
all possible lattitude be given them in making rules governing
this department.

This department occupies the larger portion of the ground
floor of the City Hall for its quarters and feel that some rate

 of rental should be fixed upon that it should pay for said quarters
WATER DEPARTMENT.

When department has right start, and for years is under

-able management, there should be no question as to its prosperity and our Water Department is in prosperous condition.

There has been much talk and opinions expressed as to
the safety of the dam at the White Reservoir and wild statements as to the amount that it will be necessary to expend
to stop leaks in the dam have been circulated and published.
Let us have the facts in this matter and if it be true that it will
cost us more to stop leak than it did to build the dam, it ts
well that we know it. However, am of the “Missouri-like”’
opinion that there is much ado about nothing and that with a
small expenditure of money any leak, if there be one, can easily
be remedied.

Experts will agree and disagree, according to the size of
their fees, but let us have the opinion of few practical men
and venture to say we will have no more wild rumors as to ,
the safety of this dam.

FIRE DEPARTMENT.

Elsewhere in this address make certain recommendations
about this department, but want to add one here to the effect
that feel that the time has arrived for the placing of permanent secretary in this department who will keep all records,
go over all accounts, keep time of men and any and all clerical
work that properly comes before him.

As usual, our financial losses by fire have been comparatively small as compared with the cost of maintaining this department.

With the installation of the new fire alarm system, added

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
protection is given and the purchase of two new fire pumps
will materially help in keeping down fire loss.

The National Board of Fire Underwriters insists that our
department be brought up to proper point of efficiency as
far as manning it goes, and we must comply with its demand
otherwise pay additional rates for insurance. It will, therefore,
be necessary to increase the department by at least ten new
men.

BOARD OF HEALTH.

It is seldom that board has the conditions confront it
that this board had to contend with during the past year and
itis with pleasure that publicly extend to the various employees of this department who worked so faithfully and successfully during the recent infantile paralysis epidemic, my sincere
appreciation and thanks and also to Dr. P. E. Hurley and Dr.
W. J. Powers for the most excellent work they did, and to Dr.
Hurley particularly who gave up practically all his private
practice and devoted himself to the cases of paralysis, the thanks
of all Holyoke should be given. Owing to serious illness in dis
own family, Dr. F. A. Woods was unable to give the time that
he would willingly have given if conditions were favorable, .
and yet by his advice and counsel he helped materially in the
work which we will hope will show results in the elimination of
any permanent crippling of any of the patients. It is expected
that the erection of the Isolation Hospital will start as soon as
the weather permits the digging of the foundation and it should
be ready for use within few months.

RELIEF DEPARTMENT.

Owing to the era of prosperity that is upon us, there have
not been so many demands on this department and their expenditures were much below those of year ago.

I advise that the recommendations in their report and in
the report of the Superintendent of the City Farm have your
earnest consideration.

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.

It is pleasant to note that the unwarranted criticism which
had been heaped upon this department, was noticeable by its
absence this year and the department carried on its business
in thorough manner and the best results were obtained and
relief was given in all cases where needed.

CITY SOLICITOR

The business of this department has been ably and conscientiously handled by the present City Solicitor and the best
testimony can give of my appreciation of his services to the
City is his reappointment for the coming year.

PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.

The harmony existing between these two departments
has enabled us to give better advantages to those who frequent and enjoy both of these now absolutely necessary pleasure places.

During the coming year it is hoped that we can establish
better conveniences at the Ward Two playgrounds and clear
the grounds of some buildings that now are great hindrance
to developemnt.

ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.

Passing upon as it does all plans and specifications for proposed new buildings and houses, both public and private, it
is most important departmont.

The report shows that much new building was done the
past year and indicates that there is much more under consideration.

It may be well to note that all buildings in course of construction are supposed to be visited frequently by the Inspector of Buildings and much criticism and expense can be avoided
by both contractor and owner if they insist that these calls of
inspection are made.

MAYOR’S ADDRESS.  
MODIFIED MILK STATION. ,
| Continuing as it has in the good work of caring for the
babies, this semi-municipal institution has proven its worth
and earnestly commend all those connected with it for the
splendid work they are doing.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

The report of this department shows, that out of large
number of scales and measuring devices tested, that it was
necessary to condemn comparatively few and shows that there
is more wholesome respect for the laws governing the sale of
commodities by weight or measure.

TAX COLLECTOR.

In its new quarters better accommodations are given for
handling the vast amount of business that this department
is called upon to handle and the efficiency of the department
has in no way waned.

Courtesy is the watchword of the Tax Collector’s office,

. and despite the fact that it is place where many come to file
“kicks”, there has been an absence of friction with the public
that is commendable and reflects great credit to the present
incumbent of the office.
GITY TREASURER.

In all the state, in all the country, there is no more faithful, honest and conscientious official than the man who has been
honored so many times by the people of his city.

Patient and courteous at all times our Treasurer and his
assistants are models that some other departments might well
follow.

CITY AUDITOR.
The O. K. of the City Auditor is required by law on all

  MAYOR’S ADDRESS.
| bills and warrants before the Treasurer can pay them and it
entails great deal of work to enable him to get all matters prepared for payment when due. Those having bills against
the city can help materially in the work of this department
by presenting the same promptly.
ASSESSORS.

In the death of Jeremiah J. Keane during the year, we lost
one of the best and most efficient members of this board that
Holyoke has had in great many years. His place was filled
by the election of Assistant Assessor Michael J. Grady, who is
fast proving himself worthy successor to his most ‘able predecessor. .

We congratulate ourselves in being able to retain the services of the present chairman of the board, whose long experience is almost invaluable to this city.

PLANNING. BOARD.

To this board much credit is due for the improved conditions at the corner of Dwight and Northampton Streets, as
well as proposed improvements at the corner of Northampton
and Lincoln Streets. ,

While it may not be possible to carry out all the recommendations of this board, still they furnish us with good food
for thought and in future years good results will be shown.

: —————  
AND NOW, GENTLEMEN OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN:

With the close of these exercises, you and start as Executive and Legislative bodies, intrusted with the management
of the City’s business for the coming year.

Much can be accomplished by working together for all that
is for the best interests of the City and citizens and little can

. be accomplished if we do not work in harmony with each other
therefore, ask of you that same spirit of co-operation that has

, MAYOR'S ADDRESS.  
prevailed between myself and the Board of Aldermen of the
past year.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

Having now been inaugurated into office as your mayor
for the coming year, now step down to give way to the Board
of Aldermen which will prod with its business, but before
retiring want to wish you all most happy New Year and
to thank you for your interest in the inauguration exercises
and your encouragement as exemplified by your attendance
here this morning.

e
e
Pa
‘

GOVERNMENT
OF THE
MAYOR
HON. JOHN J. WHITE.
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
 WILLIAM M. HART.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
. (For one year.)
FREDERICK CHILDS, WILLIAM M. HART,
CORNELIUS M. DONNELLY, CORNELIUS A. HURLEY,
GEORGE HANIEL, HARRY R. SACKETT,
. JOHN STALKER.
MEMBERS AT LARGE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
(For two years.)
WILLIAM E. BOSWORTH, DANIEL M. LONG,
JOSEPH F. GRIFFIN, CHARLES F. McMAHON,
L. ALPHONSE LAPORTE, FRANK T. MOYNAHAN, |
 MICHAEL N. SLOTNICK.

  CITY OFFICERS.
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN BY WARDS
WARD  —DANIEL J. RUSSELL.
WARD  —HENRY M. LAFOUNTAINE.
WARD  —EMIL W. KROEPEL.
WARD  —THOMAS J. KILKER.
WARD  —DANIEL E. RILEY.
WARD  —WILLIAM H. SKILLING.
| WARD  —WILLIAM E. HAYES.
| CITY CLERK.
JOHN F. SHEEHAN.
ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
DANIEL J. HARTNETT.
CITY MESSENGER.
WILLIAM T. WALSH.
, CLERK OF COMMITTEES.  :
: JOHN C. DORAN.

STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE
BOARD OF ALDERMEN |

Finance—Mayor John J. White, President of the Board of
Aldermen, William M. Hart, Aldermen Griffin, Hamel and
Sackett.

Ordinances—Aldermen Slotnick, Russell, Haves, Kilker,
and Skilling.

Claims—Aldermen Krocpel, Riley, Hayes, Russell, and |
Donnelly. |

Street Franchises—Aldermen Long, Kroepel, Hamel,
Griffin and Stalker.

Rules—Aldermen Sackett, Russell, Riley, McMahon and
Laporce.

Licenses—Aldermen Riley, Griffin, Kroepel, Russell and
Skilling.

State and Military Aid and Soldiers’ Relief—Aldermen
Hayes, Riley, Hurley, Donnelly and McMahon.

Enrollment—Aldermen Hurley, Moynahan, LaFontaine,
Kilker and Childs.

Municipal Lighting— Aldermen Skilling, Kilker, LaFontainc, Laporte and Moynahan.

River Navigation, Trades and Industries—Aldermen Long,
Sackett, Kroepcl, Moynahan and Kilker.

Education— Aldermen Childs, McMahon, Moynahan, Laporte and Bosworth.

CITY OFFICERS
CITY TREASURER.

Pierre Bonvouloir, Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every three years at the Municipal Election.
CITY AUDITOR.

Daniel W. Kenney,  Office, City Hall
Elected every three years by the Board of Aldermen.
SUPERINTENDENT OF OUTDOOR WORK.

Henry Winkler, Office, Commercial Street
Appointed annually by the Board of Public Works

CITY ENGINEER. |
Timothy J. MacCarthy,  Office, City Hall Annex :
Appointed every three years by che Mayor.
CITY SOLICITOR.
Frank J. O’Neil, Office, Holyoke National Bank Bldg.
Appointed annually by the Mayor.
CITY PHYSICIAN.

Edward P. Hand, Office, Suffolk Street
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
MANAGER OF GAS AND ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Office, City Hall
Civil Service.

wv
CITY OFFICERS.  
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires  
James A. Allen, Term expires  
Israel Ducharme, Term expires  
Timothy J. MacCarthy, Clerk, Oscar C. Ferry, Asst. Clerk.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor.
. ASSESSORS OF TAXES.
Joseph J. Kelly, Chairman, Term expires  
William G. Beaudro, Secretary Term expires |
Michael J. Grady Term expires  
ASSISTANT ASSESSOR. :
Bernard J. Grady, Term expires ,
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
James M. Kennedy,  Office, Room  City Hall
Elected every years by the Board of Aldermen.
DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
Frank A. McCabe.
Appointed by Collector of Taxes.
INSPECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS. |
Frank J. O’Connell,  .
Appointed by the Mayor.
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR. :
Frank Rainault, Chairman, Term expires |
Patrick J. Dowd, Secretary, Term expires  
Henry Baush, Term expires  
John J. Byrnes, Almoner,  .
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

  CITY OFFICERS.
BOARD OF HEALTH.
William J. Powers, M. D.,  Chairman, Patrick E. Hurley,
M. D.,  Henry E. Chaput, M. D,  .
Appointed by the Mayor.
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer. |
Civil Service.
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS. .- :
Sidney E. Whiting, Chairman, Term expires  
George C. Robert, M. D., Term expires  
James H. O’Connell, Term expires  
Appointed by the Mayor. |
John Hildreth, Secretary.
LICENSING BOARD.
David C. Downing, Chairman, Term expires  
Thomas J. O’Connor, Term expires  
George J. White, Term expires  
Fred Kilian, Clerk. |
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS.
John J. Moynahan.
Appointed annually by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board
of Aldermen.
CITY AGENTS H. W. R. R. CO.
Frank M. O’Neill, Fred A. Monat,
Dennis C. Haggerty, James F. Sweeney,
Matthew B. Begley.
Elected annually by the Board of Aldermen.
SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
Joseph D. Goddu.
Civil Service.

CITY OFFICERS.  
INSPECTOR OF MILK, BUTTER AND VINEGAR.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
Appointed by Board of Health
Civil Service.
PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Lorenzo A. Williston, Chairman, Term expires May 
Joseph Laliberte, Term expires May 
George H. Sinclair, Term expires May 
Denis F. O’Connell, Term expires May 
Gustave A. Geissler, Term expires May 
Daniel J. Harcnett, Secretary.
Members of the Board appointed by the Mayor and confirmed
by the Board of Aldermen.
REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.
James J. Dunn, Chairman, Term expires April 
Thomas Stansfield, Term expires April 
Joseph A. Paradis, Term expires April 
Appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Al, dermen.
John F. Sheehan, City Clerk, ex-officio.
TRUSTEES OF WHITING STREET FUND.
Hon. John J. White, Mayor, ex-officio. ,
Pierre Bonvoulouir, Treasurer, ex-officio.
Mrs. Kate Moynihan, Term expires March 
Mrs. John J. Prew, Term expires March 
Mrs. Margaret A. Carlon, Term expires March 
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.
WATER COMMISSIONERS. .
Jesse E. Sheldon, Chairman, Term expires  
Joseph F. Ranger, Treasurer, Term expires  
Hugh McLean, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen. ,

  CITY OFFICERS.
WATER REGISTRAR.
Albert E. Pickup, Office, Room  City Hall
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.
(Civil Service.)

SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.
Patrick Gear, Office, Commercial Street
Appointed by the Board of Water Commissioners.

| (Civil Service.)
SUPERINTENDENT OF FIRE ALARM TELEGRAPH.
Thomas F. Monaghan.
Appointed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS OF SINKING FUND.
(Municipal Bonds.) 
Stephen A. Mahoney, Term expires  
John J. Finn, Term expires  
Harry J. Bardwell, Term expires  
Elected by the Board of Aldermen.

BOARD OF PLAYGROUND COMMISSIONERS.
Archibald A. Brooks, Chairman, Term expires ,
Mary E. Hussey, Secretary, Term expires  
Nathan P. Avery, Term expires  
Mrs. William G. Dwight, Term expires  
William J. Howes, Term expires  
Ovila Beauchamp, Term expires  
David Brodinsky, Term expires  
Mrs. Caroline Moquin, Term expires  

PLANNING BOARD. 

: Hon. John J. White, Mayor.

William M. Hart, President of the Board of Aldermen.
Edward N. White, Thomas E. Cavanaugh, M. D.,  
. James H. Wakelin,  .

§
| CITY OFFICERS.  
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AS CONTROLLING BODY IN
CHARGE OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
(One Year— .)
Mrs. C. A. Chase, Dennis F. Lynch
‘ Joseph B. Weis.
(Two Years— .)
August H. Baush, John P. Bleasius
Wills M. Fleming.
| (Three Years— .)
Joseph H. Potts, M. D. Rev. Franklin Knight .
John J. O'Connor.
LOCKUP KEEPER.
Patrick Herbert.
SPECIAL POLICEMEN.
Arent, Stanley, High Street.
Auclair, Alfred, Park street.
Avery, Frank L., Hampshire street.
Baker, Michael, F. Suffolk street.
Barnett, George, Chestnut street.
Bartlett, Frederick G., Cabot Street.
Bray, Thomas A., Laurel street.
Berry, George W., Bh street.
Brigham, Elisha N., Chestnut street. |
Bork, George H., Dwight street.
Buckley, George C., Bh street.
Burke, Michael, Maple street.
| Burke, Michael F., Cabot street.
Clark, John F., North East street.
Clifford, Partick J., Center street.
Collins, Frank H., Elm street.
Connor, Dennis, Adams street.

  CITY OFFICERS. .
Conway, John, High street.
Conway, Patrick J., Elm street.
Connors, James, Sargeant street
Connell, Joseph J., Dwight street.
Culver, Charles E., West street.
Curran, Maurice, High street. 
Day, David E., Cherry street.
Dugas, George H., High street.
Devitt, John, South Bridge street.
Dickinson, John C., Carew street, South Hadley Falls.
Eaton, Silas, Glen street.
Evans, Charles R., Grover street.
 Ezold Bruno, Vernon street.
Ezold, Emil B., Vernon street.
: Falvey, Timothy, Pine Street.
Ferris, George B., Pleasant street.
Finn, Martin J., North East street.
Fitzgerald, Martin, Lyman street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick, Lyman street.
Fitzgerald, Patrick, Bh street. Flahive, Thomas, Dwight street.
Fortier, Joseph, South Bridge street.
Gallivan, Bartholomew, Chestnut stre t.
Geran, Patrick, Walnut street.
Geissler, Carl F., Park street.
Geissler, Charles, Hampshire street.
Goddu, Joseph D., Prospect street.
Goeldner, Ernest, James street.
Gagnon, Narcisse, Ely street.
Geoffrion, Albert C., Chicopee Street, Will-Chicopee.
Griffin, Patrick, Elm street.
Griffin, Richard, Hampden street. )
Gallagher, Thomas E., Appleton strect.
Gulvis, Burt, South Canal street,
Haley, Cornelius J., Easthampton road.
Hand, Peter, Clinton Ave.
Hartnett, Daniel P., Dwight strcet.

CITY OFFICERS.  

Higgins, Peter P., Worcester place. .
Hills, George F., West street.
Harris, Joseph, Taylor street.
Hoffmey zr, George, West Holyoke.
Houlihan, John F., Chestnut street.
Howes, Luther W., Smiths Ferry.
Kane, Hugh, Elm street.

- Keating, William P., Charles street.
Kelliher, John A., Main street.
Kelly, Thomas J., Rock Valley.
Kennedy, John J., Hampden street.
Kennedy, Samuel G., rear Hampden street.
Kiely, John, Ess street. ,
Klopfer, Frank E., Avon place.
Lake, Aaron W., Smiths Ferry.
Lamb, James, Essex street. ,
Lamont, James, Longwood avenue.
Landry, Joseph, Brown avenue.
Laroche, Thomas R., Maple street.
Larounis, Dennis, Hampshire street.
Leblanc, Joseph, Elm street.
Lucey, Michael, High street.
Lyons, Pairick J., Dwight street.
Mahoney, Daniel D., Pleasant street.
Lyons, Timothy J., East Dwight street.
McCool, John, Crescent street, Northampton.
McDonnell, Thomas, North East street.
McDonald, John W., East Dwight street.
McNaught, William, Sargeant street. .
Murphy, Jeremiah, South Summer street.
Murphy, Timothy, Sargeant street.
Mihm, Edward, South street.
Manning, Patrick J., North Summer street.
Maley, Patrick J., Elm street.
McManus, John, Pleasant street.
Manning, Michael, West street.
Monahan, Patrick, Franklin street.

  CITY OFFICERS.
Mulaney, George A., Elm street. |
O’Connell, Edward, Chestnut street.
O’Connor, William, Lyman street.
O’Neil, Florence P., Davis street.
Peterson, Henry, Southampton road.
Provost, Leon, Hamilton street.
Read, Clarence W., Taylor street.
Roche, William, F. Linden street.
Rogers, Harry W., Laurel street.
Robert, Elzear, Race street.
Roberts, Charles S., Sargeant street.
Redfern, Frank W., Race street.
Rogalski, Michael J.,  CO South Canal street. Richardson, John F., Northampton street.
Raboin, J. Hormisdas, South Canal street.
, Sabourin, Leopold, Spring street.
Schoenfeldt, Charles L., R. F. D.  Rock Valley.
Shinkwin, Thomas J., Fairfield avenue.
Shippe, Leon A., Mosher strcet.
Snyder, Ernest, Harrison avenue.
Sullivan, John B., [lm street.
Spencer, Henry B., Suffolk street. |
Sullivan, Frank J., Davis str. |
Stromfors, Axel, Taylor street.
Slavin, Thomas J., South street.
Smith, Robert J., Pine street.
Sanderson, Whipple R., Essex street.
Stacy, Joseph, East Dwight street.
Stroshine, Frederick, Longwood avenue.
Sittard, Charles, Vernon street.
Sullivan, Michael, Walnut street.
Sullivan, Jeremiah, Maple street.
Teahan, Edward, Lyman street.
Tennant, Henry C., Pleasant street. ‘
Toepfert, Joseph M., Laurel street.
Tokarski, Felix, Union street.
Turconi, Romeo R., Maple street.

CITY OFFICERS.  
Wheeler, Frederick A., Merrick avenue.
Williams, Henry C.,  Nonotuck street. |
Wing, John F., Southampton road. ,
Wallington, Mark, Pearl street.
Zwisler, Frederick C., Willow street.
Vallee, Joseph, Pine street. |
O’Connor, Edward J., Plymouth place.
Webster, Thomas M., Sargeant street.
Ryan, James C., Maple street.
O’Connor, Patrick T., Elm street.
Storey, James, Hampden street.
Parmenter, Wallace E., Dwight street.
Wooley, Arthur E., Davis street.
O’Leary, Patrick H., No. Summer street.
CONSTABLES.
Valentine J. O’Donnell, Fairfield avenue.
Alexander N. Lapointe, Myrtle avenue.
Ernest R. Laduke, Chestnut street.
Fred Laduke, Coit street.
J. Sidney Wright, Taylor street.
George A. Mulany, Elm street.
“Thomas J. Cummins, Chestnut street.
William K. Mutter, South Bridge street.
WEIGHERS OF BOILERS AND HEAVY MACHINERY.
William M. Hart, Brown avenue. '
Walter R. Brown, View street.
William J. Jolly, Harrison avenue.
William A. Kelly, Elm street.
MEASURERS OF PLASTERING, PAINTING, BRICK AND
STONE.
Michael J. Teahan, Nonotuck street.
Timothy J. MacCarthy, Fairfield avenue.

  CITY OFFICERS.
William J. Howes, Harvard street.
Albert F. Sickman, Lincoln street.
Patrick J. Kennedy, Jr., Maple street.
John J. Kirkpatrick, Howard street.
Melvin N. Snow, Nonotuck street.
Wallace E. Sawin, Taylor street.
CARETAKER OF CITY HALL CLOCK.
| A. Judson Rand.
INSPECTOR OF PETROLEUM.
Daniel P. Hartnett.
FENCE VIEWERS.
Daniel O’Connell, Jr., Dwight street.
Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut street.
FIELD DRIVERS.
Edward R. Crafts, Northampton street.
Richard Peters, Pearl street.
Harvey H. Carter, Appleton street.
John A. Davis, Cottage avenue.
Patrick H. Prindiville, Chestnut street.
WEIGHERS OF HAY, STRAW, COAL, ETC.
Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.
‘Patrick J. Moriarty, O'Connor avenue.
George I. Sackett, Northampton street.
John J. Finn, Linden street.
Ryno L. Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Louis Bibeau, Sargeant street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Frank J. Linnehan, Dwight street.

CITY OFFICERS.  

Della Kennedy, Maple street.
John Kennedy, Hampden street.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm Street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street.
Edward F. McCarthy, Faille avenue. |
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
Fred E. Jacques, Commercial street.
Timothy O’Connell, Bh street.
John W. Folev, Main street.
Paul Wojcik, Hampden street.
John D. Kelley, Samosett street.
Arthur Turner, Bh Street.
Ira J. Humes, Oak street. .
Jeremiah J. Grady, Elm street.
Jeremiah C. Dowd, Newton street.
Harry Turner, Columbia street. :
August W. Bcy, Main street.
Edward Heibel, Hitchcock street.
Haze’ Smith, Bardwell street, South Hadley Falls.
Arden W. Myers, South street.
C. Robert Wilhelm, Charles street.
Francis J. Meehan, Main street.
Dennis J. Reglev, Mosher street.
Fdwerd G. Whiting, Oak street.
Fhiip C. Whiting, Pearl street.
Wi liam S. Thorpe, Linccln street. |
Frederick Herder, Dwight street.

MEASURERS OF WOOD, BARK AND CHARCOAL.
Frank A. Whiting, Morgan street.
Patrick J. Moriarty, O’Connor avenue.
John J. Finn, Linden street.
Maurice T. Moriarty, South Hadley Falls.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
John Shugrue, Lyman street. .
Thomas Fitzgerald, Elm street.

  CITY OFFICERS. .
Dennis J. Begley, Mosher street.
Edward G. Whiting, Oak street. |
Philip C. Whiting, Pearl street. :
William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.
Frederick Herder, Dwight street.

SURVEYORS OF LUMBER.
Arthur W. Little, Cook street.
Lewis Warner, Allyn street.
Patrick Walsh, Pearl street. ,

BURIAL AGENT.

Harry Crosby, Cabot street.

ELECTION OFFICERS
WARD ONE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—James Clark, East Dwight street.

Deputy Warden—Dieudonne Blain, East Dwight street.

Clerk—Rudolph Fournier, Ely strect.

Deputy Clerk—Oliver Chevalier, West street.

Inspectors—Louis Dragon, Ely street; Winfield Moffat,  
Mosher street; Eddie L. Hamel, West street; Cornelius
Crowley, Cencer street.

Deputy Inspectors—Jeremiah Mannix, North Bridge street;
William M. Perry, Elv street; Arthur L. Coderre,  
Mosher street; James H. Hyde, North Canal street.

WARD ONE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—John H. Ryan, Bowers street.

Deputy Warden—John F. Kennedy, Center street.

Clerk—Louis E. Emery, West street.

Deputy Clerk—George F. Hills, West street.

Inspectors—Edward Mullen, Center street; Dennis M.
Haggerty, North East street; George Chevalier,  

Mosher street; William C. Viens, Center street.

Deputy Inspectors—Perle Marrs, East Dwight street;
Martin P. Kennedy, North East street.; Samuel N. Bogart, Dwight street; Harry E. Marrs, East Dwight
street.
| WARD TWO—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Louis A. Turgeon, South Summer street.

Deputy Warden—Calixte Blais, South Bridge street.

Clerk —George A. Tetrault, Cabot street.

  CITY OFFICERS.

Deputy Clerk—Joseph Charest, Park street.

Inspectors—Hilaire Jacques, Jr., South Bridge street; Arthur Hamelin, South Summer street; Ovila Cote,
  Hamilton street; Damien Beaudry, Park street.

Deputy Inspectors—George A. Lawrence, Park street;
Joseph U. Smith, South Bridge street; Albert C. Fleury,
  Hamilton street; Armand Lacroix, Main street.

WARD TWO—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Jeremiah J. Hurley, South Summer street.

Deputy Warden—Jeremiah F. Kelliher, Adams street.

Clerk—Adelbert C. Baulne, South Summer street.

Deputy Clerk—-Wilfred Baulne, South Bridge street.

Inspectors—Edward J. Rourke, Race street; John E. Welch,
  Park street; John L. Fournier, Main street; Max

Weisbach, Park street.

Deputy Inspectors—John C. Colton, Main street; Hubert
Marcotte, Main street; Victor Messier, South
Bridge street; Charles Bader, Park street.

WARD THREE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Isadore W. Davis, Washington Ave.

Deputy Warde  —Frederick T. Ball, Northampton street.

Clerk—James P. Hannan, Davis street.

Deputy Clerk—William C. Naughton, Elm street.

Inspectors—Harry W. Rogers, Laurel street; Martin J.
Conway, Congress avenue; Hugo Popp, Sycamore
street; Wallace M. France, South street.

Deputy Inspectors—John Reid, Jr., Carlton street; John
Thomson, Washington avenue; Gustave Stache,  
South street; John H. Carroll, Elm street.

WARD THREE—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Paul H. Koehler, Carlton street.

Deputy Warden—Otto Landgraf, Jackson street.

a
CITY OFFICERS.  
Clerk—John Lowcock, Myrtle avenue.
Deputy Clerk—Frank Martin, Arthur street.
Inspectors—John F. Higgins, Ingleside street; Michael J. Shea,
  Temple street; Frank A. Wells,  Main street;
Frederick Hoffman, Franklin street;
Deputy Inspectors—Charles E. Gillon, Jackson street;
Henry J. Bey, Franklin street; William B. Clements,
  Avon Place; Max G. Geissler, Vernon street.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT C.
Warden—Thomas E. Begley, Carlton street.
Deputy Warden—Hugh EF. Anderson, Franklin street.
Clerk—James Bower, Franklin street.
Deputy Clerk—Howard G. Farr, Hillside avenue.
Inspectors—Edwin A. Richardson, Franklin street; Donald
R. Young, Magnolia avenue; Michael J. Connors,
  Sargeant street; Edmund D. Slate, Franklin street.
Deputy Inspectors—John Lowell, Jr., Franklin street; Alfred P. Beauchemin, Magnolia Avenue; Leonard F.
Connor, Northampton street; Theodule Smith,
  Sargeant street.
WARD THREE—PRECINCT D.
Warden—George Barnett, Jr., South street.
Deputy: Warden—Everett H. Lynds, Hillside Avenue.
Clerk—Lawrence F. Dowd, South street.
Deputy Clerk—Edward F. Stone, Laurel street.
Inspectors—Patrick J. O’Connell, Northampton street;
Jeremiah Connor, Brown avenue; William J. Hall,
  Hitchcock street; Walter C. Livermore, Northampton street.
Deputy Inspectors—Edward D. Hallissey, Hitchcock street;
Henry L. Mohan, Westfield street; Henry Dumelow,
  Martin street; Edward Hiebel, Hitchcock street.

  CITY OFFICERS.

WARD FOUR—PRECINCT A.

Warden—James P. Hobert, Maple street.

Deputy Warden—John P. Greaney, Maple street. ,

Clerk—Harry L. Cady, Lyman street.

Deputy Clerk—Charles F. Glidden, Lyman street.

Inspectors—George Hamel, Fountain street; Frank Lamay,
  Front street; Maurice F. O'Donnell, High street;
John W. Starzyk, High street. |

Deputy Inspectors—Leo Bergeron, High street; Hormisdas
Thomas, Front street; William H. Kelly, Hampden
street; Joseph Vallee, Pine street.

WARD FOUR—PRECINCT B.

Warden—Patrick Mackey, Pine street.

Deputy Warden—Joseph Balakier, High street.

Clerk—Thomas J. O’Connor, [tlm street.

Deputy Clerk—Edwin J. Mitchell, Pine street.

Inspectors—Thomas Ash, Pine street; Edward Fitzgerald,
  High street; Edward Damour, Fountain street;
Joseph K. Menard, High street.

Deputy Inspectors—Mlichael O’Hare, Chestnuc Street; |
William F. Shea, Lyman street; John Kaplansky,  
High street; John W. Sheehan, Ilm street.

WARD FIVE—PRECINCT A.

Warden—Ira J. Humes, Oak street.

Deputy Warden—Harrv E. Root, Suffolk street.

Clerk—Daniel F. O’Connell, Bh street. |

Deputy Clerk—William J. O'Connor, Pine street.

Inspectors—James J. Clifford, Suffolk street; Patrick Moakler, Dwight street; G. Herbert Foster, Chestnut
street; John J. O'Connor, Clinton avenue.

Deputy Inspectors—George A. Green, O'Connor avenue;
Daniel Flynn, Dwight street; Edward V. Connor,
  Bh street; W. Willard Stone, Pine street.

—
CITY OFFICERS.  
WARD FIVE—PRECINCT B.
Warden Patrick J. Dempsey, Dwight street.
Deputy Warden—James A. G. Aitken, Oak street.
Clerk—Frank D. O’Connor, Clinton avenue.
Deputy Clerk—John J. O’Connor, Pine street.
Inspectors—Wilbur A. Robinson, Elm street; Thomas J.
Hart, Dwight street; White P. Bidwell, High
street; Thomas V. K. Miner, Suffolk street.
Deputy Inspectors—John J. Garvey, Dwight street;
Michael F. Baker, Suffolk street; George W. Ritter,
  Dwight street; Floyd C. Alger, Maple street.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT A.
Warden—Fred N. Ricker, Essex street. ,
Deputy Warden—Charl?s C. Cassidy, Newton street.
Clerk—Thomas F. Lynch, Sargeant strcet.
Deputy Clerk—James T. Cahill, High street.
Inspectors—Lawrence H. Fortier, Appleton street; Charles
McCauley, Cabot street; George H. Corrigan, Hampshire street; Robert J. Foley, Chestnut street. :
Deputy Inspectors—Newton F. Holmes, Chestnut street;
Andrew Nye, Chestnut street; Robert E. Alben,
  Newton street; Anselm Magliola, Elm street.
WARD SIX—PRECINCT B.
Warden—Frederick Shearer, Sargeant street.
Deputy Warden—Thomas Skilling, Newton street.
Clerk—John A. Vaughan, Newton street.
Deputy Clerk—Daniel H. Courtney, Chestnut street.
Inspectors—Alexander Pratt, High street; Edward A. Driscoll, Sargeant street; Nicholas Cavanaugh, Commercial street; Robert D. Moore, Elm street.
Deputy Inspectors—Patrick Cavanaugh, Franklin Street;
Edwin W. Rafferty, Maple street; James Gray,  
Sargeant street; Hector Riel, Worcester place.

  CITY OFFICERS.

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT A.

Warden—William S. Thorpe, Lincoln street.

Deputy Warden—George W. Doane, Lincoln street.

Clerk—Arthur R. Root, Pearl street.

Deputy Clerk—James J. Haggerty, Dwight street.

Inspectors—Arthur E. Sheldon, Appleton Street, Bernard
F. Bigelow, Pearl street; Pierre Smeddy, Parker
street; William H. Delaney, Lynnwood avenue.

Deputy Inspectors—Raymond P. Allen, Howard street;
William R. Chase, Fairfield avenue; Raymond W. Gero,
  Pleasant street; Daniel J. Gallivan, Smiths Ferry.

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT B.

Warden —John M. James, Madison avenue.

Deputy Warden—Charles M. Nelson, Walnut street.

Clerk—Joseph F. Griffin, Pleasant street.

Deputy Clerk—James J. Driscoll, Appleton street.

Inspectors—George D. Stalker, Walnut street.; John K.
McGrane, Hampden street; Levi KE. Fay, Hampshire street; John F. Nfurphy, Suffolk street.

} Deputy Inspectors—Thomas E. Sullivan, Pleasant street;
Thomas McGuiness, Walnut street; Frederick E.
Quirk, Linden street; John MacDonald, Appleton street. ,

WARD SEVEN—PRECINCT C.

Warden—Linus D. Crafts, Northampton street.

Deputy Warden—George H. Allyn, Jr., River Terrace.

Clerk-—Arthur L. Connor, Elm street.

Deputy Clerk--Charles J. Ford, Allyn street.

Inspectors—Frank S. Rowe, Nonotuck street; Edwin B.
Evans, Sargeant street; J. Howard Howes, Essex
strect; Edgar N. Whitaker, Amherst street.

Deputy Inspectors—M. Stephen Bowe, Beacon Avenue;
William F. Bradley, Jr., Allyn street; Frank J. Phelps,
  Northampton street; William H. Cottor, Arling- '
ton street.

—
REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Members of the Board of Aldermen of the City of Holyoke, Mass.
Gentlemen :—

Accompanying this is the annual report of this department
for the year ending November showing in detail in the
various exhibits the expenditures and activities of the Board
during the year just closed.

The total maintenance and construction account amounted
to Four Hundred Sixty Nine Thousand Four Hundred ThirtyEight Dollars and ninety-six cents ($ ). The total
appropriations, receipts and loan accounts amounted to Six
Hundred Thirty-Three Thousand One Hundred Thirty-Two
Dollars and thirty cents ($ ), made up as follows, viz:
Balances from  .......................... 
General appropriations from taxation...........  
Appropriations from loans....................  
Transfers from other departments and additional

Appropriations. ..........    
Receipts...  ... nee nes  

The sum of one hundred fifty-eight thousand seventy-one

dollars and nine cents ($ has been carried over to
 Five thousand six hundred twenty-two dollars and twenty-five cents ($ were transferred from the various departments.

The Department has expended for vacations for laborers
two thousand eight hundred forty-four dollars and fifty-nine
cents ($ ), divided among the departments as follows,
viz: )

! Alleys...    een 
Highways...  ...  ...      

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
City Property.......  ...  
and for accidents and medical attendance one thousand seven
hundred twenty-five dollars and four cents ($ ), divided as follows, viz:
Alleys...       es 
City Property .......   
Highways.........       sees  
Highways Permanent.......................-..  
Forestry...  eae  
Sidewalks...  ... 
Sidewalks Permanent...............)....... ..  
' The pension fund will call for an annual expenditure of
one thousand one hundred eleven dollars and seventy-six
cents ($ ), with the probability that additional men
must be pensioned or otherwise cared for within the near future.

The maintenance of the comfort station completed this
year in the city hall building will necessitate an expenditure
of four thousand seventeen dollars ($ annually for wages.

The total expenditure for school buildings for maintenance
and new construction was eighty-six thousand two hundred
twenty-nine dollars and seventy cents ($ ); for fire
department buildings, twenty thousand one hundred ninetyfive dollars and eighty cents ($ ): for other buildings,
forty-two thousand six hundred ninety dollars and thirty-two
cents ($ ).

This amount will be lessened the coming year inasmuch
as the Central Fire Station, City Hall Annex and Police Building, Comfort Station, High School Gymnasium, Elm Street
School Addition and the Nonotuck Street School Sanitaries
have been completed, but the maintenance of these buildings

 will necessitate additional requirements under the City property department.

A shelter has been constructed at the Sanatorium, providing additional room and comfort for the patients.

It is recommended that sufficient appropriation be made
the coming year to provide for the purchase of fuel necessary

a

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
to heat the buildings during the entire following winter, instead
of following the present method of contracting for coal during
the summer months to be delivered at any time during the following cold months. Should this method be adopted the ap propriations after the first year would not be larger than they
; are atthe present time. The purchase of coal during the spring
| and summer months and the placing of the same in the build| ings during the warm weather would insure an ample supply
and also guard against the probability of coal shortage either

by strikes or embargoes.

In the Permanent Highway Department Bh Street
from Sargeant Street to Northampton Street has been permanently improved by the construction of concrete roadway
and the laying of cement curbing the entire distance on the easterly side of the street and from Sargeant to Franklin Street
on the westerly side of Bh Street.

City Hall Court has been laid out and paved with vitrified blocks from High Street to Railroad Street and Newton
Place has been paved with vitrified blocks from Suffolk Street
to the City Hall Court.

Ely Street has been reconstructed from Summer Street
to Bowers Street and Lyman Street has been repaved from
Maple Street to High Street. Asphalt blocks, two inches in
thickness, being laid upon both of these streets.

A concrete roadway has been laid on the easterly side of
North Pleasant Street from the dingle, so-called, to the end of
the street railway tracks and the entire width of the street
from this point northerly.

A concrete roadway with one-half inch tarviaized wearing
surface has been laid on Pine Street from Sargeant Street to
Hampshire Street.

A detailed cost sheet of the work will be found in another
part of this report.

Two new streets have been opened this year, Clinton
Avenue being extended frcm Dwight Street to Suffolk Street
and Larkin Avenue being -uilt from Willow Street to Glen
Street.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

The dangerous corners have been eliminated at the intersection of Dwight Street with Northampton Street making a
broad and pleasant connection between the two streets in place
of the dangerous, narrow curve that existed heretofore. The
work is in progress at the present time in eliminating the sharp
angle at the intersection of Lincoln and Northampton Streets
on the north side of Lincoln Street. We hope to have this work
finished early in the coming year, there being sufficienc balance in the account of Permanent Highways to meet all of the
expenses to be entailed in this work.

Owing to the way that some of the recently developed
building tracts have been laid out, apparently without considering the whole sections as unit, the Board recommends the
adoption by the city of Chapter of the General Acts of  ,
entitled, “‘An Act to Authorize Cities to Establish Boards of Survey’’, the act being given in full in another part of this report.
By the adoption of this act the land laid out for building purposes could only be developed in an approved manner, if the
promoters hope ever to turn the streets over to the City for
acceptance. The Board believes the adoption would work no
hardship upon the owners‘of land or companies and would
in many ways prove beneficial to the City.

The construction of new bridge connecting Dwight
Street with East Dwight Street over the Boston and Maine
Railroad tracks is now in progress. The work will probably
be finished so that the bridge can be used early in the spring.
The bridge is of re-inforced concrete and steel construction,
was designed by the City E:ngineer, and will meet all the re-quirements in this location for many vears. Upon its completion the present steel structure will be removed and the surrounding property should be benefitted by the new structure.

The Board has for many years impressed the necessity
of repairs and construction of new bridges and also the advisability of providing permanent forms of roadways on the South
Hadley Falls and Willimansett bridges. The South Hadley
Falls bridge was replanked the current year at cost of one
thousand one hundred ninety-nine dollars and forty-four cents

,
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
($ and it will be necessary to replank the roadway .
of the Willimansett bridge the coming year.
It is hoped that sufficient sum will be appropriated to
: enable us to pave the roadway of the latter bridge with wooden
blocks, this appearing to the Board matter of economy as the
interest of the investment will be materially less than the biannual cost of planking, it being necessary to renew the wearing
surface practically every two years and the supporting timbers
each four or five years.

The attention of the City has been called by the Public
Service Commission to the condition of the bridges over the
second level canal on Cabot Street and over the second level
canal on Bridge Street, the latter bridge being generally known
as the Valley bridge. It is not the intention of the Board to
enter into any controversy with the Public Service Engineer,
but the Valley bridge is of more recent construction than nearly
all the other bridges and in the opinion of the Board it is safe
to bear the load for which it was originally designed, for atleast
atime. If the public service coproration using the structure
desires to increase the weight of its cars it should, in our opinion,
pay at least an amount equal to the cost of strengthening the
bridge to meet its needs.

The second level canal bridge on Cabot Street is an old
structure designed for much lighter trafic than the street
now carries and the Board agrees that this bridge should be
replaced with modern structure as soon as possible. Your
attention  also called to the traffic that the Appleton Street
first level canal bridge is obliged to carry and its peculiar conditions of use. Switching of freight cars and the passing of |
trains over the Appleton Street crossing, retard traffic on the
east side of the railroad and throw burden upon this bridge
continually that under ordinary conditions it would not be
called upon to sustain. The Board does not care to see an accident upon either of the bridges and emphasizes its recommendations that the longer these bridges are allowed to remain
in their present condition, the more liable the City becomes.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

A thorough examination should be given to all the canal
bridges and the recommendations as to repairs derived from
such examination should be followed. While no accidents have
occurred there is no reason to suppose that Holyoke will be more
fortunate than any other place in this matter and the time
must come when the law of averages will prevail unless something is done to maintain these structures and to prevent
the rapid deterioriation now in progress.

The expenditures in the Alley Department are increasing
annually, the current year being no exception. This increase
was to some extent necessitated by the prevalence of infantile
paralysis but more generally to the continued growth and enlarged territory that che department is called upon to operate
in. Contracts for the removal of garbage expire the coming
spring. The last twoyears this work has been done for an annual
expenditure in payment to contractors of nine thousand eight
hundred seventy-six dollars ($ ). It is believed that owing to the increased cost of labor and the operation of teams
that the contracts cannot be renewed for this figure. It is
imperative that additional dumping grounds  be provided
the coming year and it is recommended that the culverts be |
extended in the Maple and Bh Street dingle, so-called,
but in order to extend the culvert easterly from its ending now
east of High Street, negotiations should be entered into with |
the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad with the
idea of extending the fill down to and upon the property of the
railroad, this being to the mutual advantage of both the City
and the Company. The addition to the culvert at Bh
Street is simply carrying out the policy already established by

, the Board.

New sewers have been constructed in parts of Amherst,

Canal, Canby, Dartmouth, Sycamore and Yale Streets, and in

' Brookline, Claremont, Elmwood, Greenwood, Hillside and

Thomas Avenues, Norwood Terrace, Oxford Road and Park

Slope, making approximately over one mile of new sewers

constructed during the year. The continual opening up of

new sections for residential purposes continues the demand
)

—
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
for additional sewer accommcdations and study  already
being made to provide adequate facilities on the tracts west
of Northampton Street north of Cherry Street and east of
Northampton Street in the vicinity of River Terrace.
The work of construction of cement sidewalks has always
been performed under contract.' The Board desires to perform this work by its own employees, believing that the work
can be done fully as cheap and more satisfactorily than at the
present time. In many places and under conditions the construction of cement curbing is equally satisfactory to the granite.
curbing used extensively heretofore and it is thought this class
of curbing can be constructed in the future at much less cost
than the laying of granite curbing and that the needs of the City
and the abutting property will be fully as well cared for.
During the year the Board purchased gasoline automobile truck for street sprinkling and street flushing purposes,
doing away with the electric car sprinkler that has been operated for many seasons under contract. The flusher was purchased at an expense of five thousand three hundred dollars
($ ), this amount being less than one season’s contract
for the operation of the electric sprinkler. We believe that |
the flusher has demonstrated its worth and in order that proper
care for all sections of the city be given, an additional flusher
should be purchased.
We also believe that the purchase of automobile trucks
—a small truck of perhaps two tons’ capacity, and larger ,
truck of perhaps five tons’ capacity, with dumping attachments,
cculd be used to advantage and with economy.
The total expenditures by the Board since its organization in in all departments to the close of November  ,
 amounted to six million eight hundred twenty one thousand seventy seven dollars and forty-eight cents ($ )
divided among various departments as follows, viz:
Alleys...       
Almshouse Addition.........................  
Almshouse Addition Furnishings...............  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Bath House, Ward One....................... 
Bath House, Ward Two......................  
Bath House, Ward Four......................  
Bridge Construction................. 
Carlton St. and School St. school sanitaries......  
Central Fire Station.........................  
City Farm Siding....... .....  ...  
City Farm Additions............... .... ..  
City Hall Annex and Police Building...........  
— City Hall Fund........ ....... ..... ... ..  
City Hall Sanitary....  ...... .. ... ...  
City Property..................... ........  
City Yard New Building.....................  
Clinton Avenue Exxtension....................  
Contagious Disease Hospital (site).............  
Contagious Disease Hospital..................  
East Dwight Street School....................  
Elm Street School Additions..................  
Elmwood Engine House......................  
IXImwood New School..................... 
) Ely Street Widening.......... ..... 
Forestry... 
Fuel and Street Lighting.....................  
Fuel...     ees.  
Hamilton Street School Additions..............  
High School and Site..........................  
High School Gynmasium.....................  
Highland School Site.......... .. ..  
Highland School Building.....................  
Highland Engine House Addition..............  
High Street Widening North of Prospect Street  
Highways.............      ss  
Highway Improvements......................  
Highways Permanent Improvements and Repairs  
Highways Permanent Construction............  
Ingleside School. ...........  ... 
Ingleside Underpass................. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
| Isolation Hospital..................... 
| Jackson Street Underpass.....................  
| Janitor’s Salaries.............  ...   
Janitors’ Supplies.................  
Joseph Metcalf School.......................  
Larkin Avenue Opening...................... |
Lighting.............         
Main Street  rd level canal bridge (new)........  
Maple Street Culvert Extension...............  
Municipal Floats.......................  
Nonotuck Street School Heating and Ventilating  
Nonotuck Street School Sanitaries.............  
Northampton Street Widening................  
Oakdale School Site........... ... .. .....  
Oakdale New School. ............ ..  
Paving...  ...  tenes  
Playground and School Site...................  
Public Works Contingent.....................  
Public Works Salaries........................  
Sargeant Street Bridge and Ingleside Underpass.  
School Sanitaries.......... ...... 
School House Additions......................  
Special School House Repairs.................  
. Sewers and Drains...........................  
Sewers and Permanent Construction...........  
Sidewalks...................................  
Sidewalks, Permanent Construction............  
Springdale School (New).....................  
Street Flushing Machine......................  
Street Watering. ............   eevee,  
St. Jerome Ave., Charles St. and Canby St. ExtENSION. eae  
Tuberculosis Hospital..................... ..  
Tuberculosis Hospital Addition................  
Ward Two (Morgan) School..................  
Water Rent...............  e.  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
West Street School.............. .. 
William Whiting School.......... ...........  
Respectfully submitted,
, BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS,
M. F. WALSH, Chairman
JAMES A. ALLEN
ISRAEL DUCHARME.
December .
Attest: OSCAR C. FERRY,
Asst. Clerk.

imo
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
CHAPTER RECOMMENDED FOR ADOPTION.
An Act to Authorize Cities to Establish Boards of Survey.
Be it enacted, etc., as follows:

Section  The mayor of city, with the approval of the
city council or of the board of aldermen, as the case may be,
may,inthe monthof January in any year, appoint three citizens

' who shall constitute board of survey for the city. Of the
members first appointed one shall serve for the term of one year,
one for the term of two years, and one for the term of three years
from the first day of February sucding the date of their
appointment, and thereafter, in the month of January, in each
year, one member of said board shall be appointed to serve
for the term of three years from the first day of February suc“ding the date of his appointment, or until the appointment
and qualification of his successor. In case of any vacancy
in the board citizen shall be appointed in the manner provided herein to serve for the remainder of his predecessor’s
term of office. Thecity engineer shall act as clerk of the board.
The compensation of the members of the board shall be fixed
by the city council or the board of aldermen as the case may
be subject to the approval of the mayor.

Section  Any person, firm or corporation proposing to
lay out, locate, relocate or construct for public use, any private
strect or way in acity after the establishment therein of board
of survey under the provisions hereof shall, before opening such
street or way for public use, submit to said board suitable plans
and profiles of the street or way, so prepared as to show also
the method of drainage of the adjacent or contiguous territory,
all in accordance with such rules and regulations as the board
may prescribe. Upon the receipt of the said plans, with a
petition for their approval, the board shall give public hearing thereon after giving notice of the same by publication
once in each of two successive weeks in newspaper published
in the city, the last publication to be at least two days before
the hearing; and after the hearing, the board may alter such

o  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
plans and may detzrmine where such streets or ways shall be
located and the width and grades thereof, and shall so designate
onsaid plans. The plans, as approved or modified by the board
shall then be signed by the members of the board, or by majority of them, and filed in the office of the city engineer
who shall attest thereon the date of filing; and thereafter no
street or way in the territory to which the plans relate shall
/ be laid out or constructed except in accordance therewith,
or with such further plans as may subsequently be approved
by the Board.

Section  The board of survey may, and upon the vote
of the local planning board and the city council or board of
aldermen shall, from time to time cause to be made by the city
engineer, under its direction, plans of such territory or sections
of lands in the city as the koard of survey or the said planning
board may deem necessary, showing thereon the location of
such streets or ways, whether already laid out or not, as, in the
opinion of the board, the interest of the public may or will
require in such territory, showing clearly the direction, width

and grades of each street or way, and plan of drainage, and
said board may incur such expenses as it may deem necessary
therefor, not exding the amount of money appropriated
by the city for the purpose. Before causing such plars to be
made the board shall give public hearing thereon, which shall
be advertised in the same manner as the hearing required in
section two,and shall, after the making of any such plan, give a
hearing thereon, advertised in like manner, and keep the plan
open to public inspection for one month after the first adver- .
tiserent of the hearing. After the hearing, and after any
alterations deemed necessary by said board have been made
therein, the same shall be approved, signed, marked, filed and
attested as provided in respect to the plans mentioned in section two of this act.

Section  The board of survey may from time to time
make new plan or plans to take the place of any plans that
may be filed in accordance with the provisions of sections

—

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  

two and three of this act, or make changes on any plan or

plans so filed: provided, however, that any action involving new

plans or changes in plans already duly attested and filed shall

be made only after the notice and hearing, and in all other

respects, in the manner specified in section two; and the last plan

so made, or the plan with the changes last made thereon and

duly attested and filed, shall be the official plan governing the

future development of the territory affected.

Section  The powers of the cicy government in regard
to highways shall not be abridged by this act in any manner,
except as provided in this section, and the powers conferred
by this act shall be in addition to the powers now possessed
by them. No street or way in the city, shown on any plan
filed as aforesaid, shall hereafter be laid out, located anew,
altered or widened, and no such street or way whether already
or hereafter laid out, shall be constructed by any public authority except in accordance with any plan that may have
been duly attested and recorded under the provisions of this
act. If any person or corporation shall hereafter open for
public travel any private way, the location, direction, width,
grades and plan of drainage of which have not previously
been approved in writing by the board of survey in the manner
provided in this act, then neither the city nor any public authority shall place any public sewer, drain,. water pipe or
light in, or do any public construction work of any kind, or make
repairs, on such private way: provided, however, that the provisions of this act shall not prevent the laving of trunk sewer,
drain, water or gas main if the same shall be required by engineering necessities for the accommodation of other territory,

Section  The city may from time to time appropriate
sums of money to be expended by the board of survey in carrying out the provisions of this act; but no such expenditures
shall be made in excess of such appropriations.

Section  Said board of survey, its officers and agents,
may, so far as they deem it necessary in carrying out the provisions of this act, enter upon any lands and there make exam  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
inations and surveys, and place and maintain monuments
and marks.

Section  This act shall not be construed to authorize
the taking or condemnation of land, nor to authorize city
to lay out or construct any way which may be located on any
official plan until such way has been laid out as highway
under such other provisions of law as may be applicable; nor
shall this act be construed to render city liable for damages
except such damages as may be sustained under the provisions
of section four by reason of the making and filing of any new
plan or plans or by reason of changes made in any official plan
already duly attested and filed, and for such damages as may be
sustained by reason of the acts of the board of survey, its officers and agents under the provisions of section seven. Any

: person who fails to agree with the city as to the amount of
damages sustained by him may on application at any time
within one year after such entry or act complained of have
such damages assessed and determined in the manner provided
by law in the case of land taken for the laying out of highways.

Section  This act shall take full effect in any city upon
its acceptance by the affirmative vote of majority of the members of the city council or the board of aldermen, as the case
may be, present and voting thereon. But so much thereof
as authorizes its submission to the city council or board of
aldermen shall take effect upon its passage. (Approved May
  .)

—. J
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
THE BOARD OF PUBLIC.WORKS.

Established January by His Honor, the Mayor,
under the provisions of Title Six, Chapter Thirty-Four, of
an Act to revise the Charter of the City of Holyoke, which
provides for appointment of members by the Mayor without
confirmation.

ORGANIZED JANUARY .
ORGANIZATION FOR  .
Michael F. Walsh, Chairman, Term expires February,  
James A. Allen, Term expires February,  
Israel Ducharme, Term expires February,  
CLERK.
T. J. MacCarthy, City Engineer, Term expires February,  
ASSISTANT CLERK.
Oscar C. Ferry, elected January by the Board, under

Civil Service Rules.

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD AND THEIR TERMS SINCE
ORGANIZATION.
James H. Newton, first Chairman, elected January ,

and served to December .
Michael F. Walsh, appointed as Commissioner January  ,

 and elected Chairman January and served

to January Appointed January  to

fill unexpired term of Thomas J. Lynch. Elected Chairman January .

William B. Reid, January  to February .

Oren D. Allyn, January  to February .

Gilbert Potvin, Jr., February  to April |

William A. Chase, February  to February .

James A. Allen, appointed as Commissioner February ,
elected Chairman January to fill vacancy in

chairmanship caused by the resignation of Michael I. Walsh.

Served as Chairman January to February .
Adelard M. Potvin, April to February .

Israel Ducharme, February .
Thomas J. Lynch, January to January .

tt Oo S$ &F-  s
  ei
LIGI ourlEg  Ss SR 
Balre)  
a)  wh  “
 ae
on DN NINM MANS uonsnntucy Be aOR SOS eae SEES EAERERRER  
. NI PCLO LENS Ere ecereNsecoyM NS e
pue DIUBUITJUILIN SALrRCNX ARF SCSRENANKANSS SRM 
TTS BRAN TORT OCH ASAE LR SCAESCS ER QR Ole
ONAR EMD BAK OrR TM SON ROM RS HM af oO
me AHR HA  Soae Ye)  
ee
Wsas,sd
Herre rtS  SO re) Nao}
wo ssajsurasp HS SOTNN COV |G Om Ne NS
j ANCKawkt ANOS MH MD AéMt  
mN ON as Sei) crojat
a aa ox wk!
 aN wy oid |
vy ea fo
| a
Ssitmom MANS p
RSSSSPFSEFGSRSLSAAIRSSESS BS Sls
s INOG [IVE SSSosousc oegunsnsesons as N
AM RMSE ASE RR SRS ww :
miosy spar ew) SF SE Ree SESE ESNGNEESERE "RB SIR cels
Py  ue. ele os. Co art re
RNIN DZLO™MO MrOrRMIANSTSaOMa Crm mo fan iaotl te ™
 ine AMEN Bom ees RS ? x
pan in 
for) CO seNGA |
— hN ana]  
— -
-  #& “
sid: SH N
BE muse BSS  
Z, ls

) 
O -quoyy auowewsag gg geese  
pue MON doy suroT Sees  s/s
y wosy suogeiudosddy  SSEE  
Ss ag aamcow ww?  Ww
ee lo
[x]  |
eS é&  
suoneudoiddy jeuoncs es 
e bd ale Ex -Ippy pue susuiiedog Ze RS SF  
fad YIO WOss SJopsuLs Ty Neo Nn
w  N
 “
om eceoeces Fe  Ses 
la) SSSESS EES FS EF |
Eessee Ses  |
uonexe Woy uOn FST ER  
. SSIS SSO HSH oH SS -viiduiddy Jeuraig aaNS ES wreoN   x
oe NTIS 
e
Ss or) MNNN om for)  on em emn tm
So  Is MIN on s
SIG] Wor saoueleg Ss ea) ain Nisnxz nN t
are  mos  
N [Yas  +
wn  “F  
. e
. woe ns . .
. ec . aeons -yv .
  . “BS  ae :
ee --o ‘G.. LEB LES UES: .
ne Fo 
“ Co BRPEE ees  ye:
S eS a
oye we .ES .S. wes cetOu “A .
E mo Fors Ex shee ve sesyy sop .
. “tse So SoMa Te Hoo. :
o stl Mees ben Sl ie sigs we
a (Bev Scent secre   EE eo Os
oy, "wets ga vets my  ar em vas De pos
ec oaga  co-—e tee ce b.Zc Beto fe)
eM re syezlsggey elite cn lessees ob
a Cm SSeS ESS ees eetae ea tes
 ooea epee csgisr  bese enesyv
See FC  vives. wy VT TIMMS ,
  Ome ALR FKASRBUVVELAAA Ae

—
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
CENTRAL FIRE STATION,  |
Construction...  ...  
Plumbing..............lene  
. Expended by Fire Department................  
- 
a To be expended by Fire Department....... 
- Balance from  .......................  
ee Loan ........     
$ 
CITY HALL ANNEX AND POLICE BUILDING,  .
Furnishings...... ...       :
Miscellaneous.............      
Police Signal System.........................  
Vault Fittings... ..........  ... 
$ 
Balance from  .........................  
CITY HALL SANITARY,  .
Materials Payroll Totals Credits ,
Fntrance..............  
New Construction......  
Plumbing.............. .
Terrazzo Floors, Tiling,
Marble and Structural
Glass ...............  
To be refunded to other
departments.........  
$  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
Less Credits...... 
Total expenditures. 
Balance from  ................... 
Amounts paid from city
Property........  

may
Bott
  
S s:
 :
: Pib y
. SPbtbib n:  
| Fork ns
. ae  ss
KS apt! ‘oO  OR Ji  hd Se
 mo) bd  "Nbr ‘SY .
  Hl cc
Re sort Sir
  ]
Fo FS OBS z
. ‘
Bolt: -
Sol! to. "
Ss Sb Bl:
See ae
 Ry SPP tt S 
a  me Foe ae i
.  .
, ec Bot |
r Pg  
Ble oe  
Sj (£  a
  ‘
 os ot oN SS :
: es ae
. A
. od :
 Kj OC Sans |
  ne
A, GC El oto oll Se  :
| SESESE Sages
S) sR ERE gS  
HA  He
Q RAINS CATS eSecce
d: Gegesessgesuncazaes
 x: SetageseaneEene :
ma ZESANRSERES g
te eenes |
  saa |
.  ag
x  BSQSsS "
WY) SSE EERE EERE
oO SA eAas San  gesransaenseszen
mm AY AeSRSISsass ARE
A,  Oo sS :
  Ea
 gn  gESee :
aad res
  aS  S
 |
ZERBSBS  "
Kao FS .
bdvssan ISON ROK St
ce SESSESRE gages
we, :
+ SS Ito a
: ae Sots ai  MARIS mA reuse EE z
Ol pe he signee
KESARlEnZS  Crier Ss
Doh tne
ee os
S 
go
deel yd
bats ate
aed “S |
—  Lael
S  Bg ice  
, Se) dy Ess  Bag sk
x ese iselgicSEs  at as) Sus  Sue es  XN pas fe) Vy CVS AS EB
age Sere bsa pote: :
rae: SESKeALS oGoe
ZES Sees i
  at SARE SSS +.
HE EES egegieiicanege i?
oEE CABREL ESS ZEEE SE
gee SSag yess Sa ODE?
Ea  Seg house SIME
SSeS SS SEEES
BESES PEELE REE  
See bee eel  
Aaa ss
De a
eae

EEE
e
g l: Pert ort rrtiy:
“Soee Pop oD pote ‘
be  
hans  , ‘
Popp re Popp tt "
i:
es)

nd .

fay in  
. . .

CQ seeme LOD res ae
    . ucts
 (oto a
 . "OS ot   se) way
a . NS sh
 HON x
oe ,
OR Doemor im es }
 oe 

og By PPR bp ye a
ee) my, . aie) rt “te
o as eras os
 : . af
fe ‘
  a. ‘

mS Pt &Y ADD
Ss Ss  .

e per)  oe Sci: (ISS ae :
 we tt AO te es i)  
cS re Tot Doe  

   ,
  la ne  ey
 .
  ba NSRrS Cc:
S os khtEs |S SSSSare SORVSisn |S
SS ERN TS “*  STONE HO S
 Ne SRE mw Ams Aion as co  
, wo OUST tt  oD 
Y NY  :
 mt OO em  ”s
aS Pw  a
mH ws an “
ja  
: Yor ,
  wa ERKAS re :: -O ve
a Sigevsil[s oc. EAS CN RSS 
i) Ayastoss of oe toe OH IQ te TNO ms
vy aT MNMN LN Jol eS oO NS NS
I (x a, oOo ott ihtrE re ros
A Af  Pop oT IN eal “
a  Lo :
ww x
S oe) S
— iS
ow SNCroCh yt Bw  .
BPaacaeas;s Esebarta SSsgesr|s
be SSaiee |e BS name RAKTOAAt!S ‘a Senses |e  SOS Said STKNMK  
SMT TANAN OO OS STON AMrm HO  }
— Ov  CQ :
i) Lamwat wad  me  omN
* UT S
  .
nor tS Lok .. 
Do, ne ern 
york Do “SB  Colawt itt os
Coes ne  ren ;
mM -yuy ay oS :
: aad  coe So: Ss sofort
 ells Omyn fy: iad p
Cru Bree
S  su ig  ae
 ay yer EES  aon rs  
Ss EEEEe SSS ramagse: ;
x Fo hy moot ek cs. c+ o.oo  !
oF Fos  -Gaclhae  )!

J eg,   RG Cas :
I Onn ao Pnd eo  :
bog ES   Vere ug

o  aa ore be
C  Se ror  ere eos
 BL Foe ay et ie SS hes MM iy .
eeu ol Son SYS OG
cea SS Sfinnon gZeeves ,
GEtse qaacverore ERostX
MERULVLU HE TAMn

g s:
Fo or) ,
Oot |g
Qo m----:
ee
Ree Lili :il llii Gig
SR   stiri: :
SER li  siisiis cis
we Foe 
SP PF)
os
Poh ott rs he  
Qt to lk ek toe ek lek oO  x
  rr Foe On TS wf  
Seg ss ilies: SASS (RS [a esses 
ce ‘lg  sdi|mal ls
e RN  ole lel  elle WW RiDAN oO &See
z Cie Gael |S Sib il ip@ geae ig  esa g
Vv |»
a PAE Yn.
  Rm bt cr: .
ee jae an cos
} SBioci     iiris Pe OU Dons
  For (Jaime OE:Dot
  re |SBR OE: oe
  oe  eS:  oe io
“ eA:  !
 Qo  oe
cs) ‘Son Dt moe
Ze ‘SRERBSRERASRERER E:.:e: Dott Ct
{x} Ss "SHBHIOTSIS OQION |e he lw  ses 
si§ SSR RnS nR  Ine. om Fos Dott
a  me NEN Dat Hm ML aes Qa. .
me we oD  no) ye
Ee Ey swt  -|  oO.  :
ad (|S Q:: Dt soe
ys  to. os
gy kt ([  api cs: oe cos
us AL  Pot
HS ck re re
moi) (RBIS SRN: De Dot
AOes BR SERA GRor
Bb oNg@ ffl! Me eR Mp soot a
a Pro iN (| Ge Bee So Dot
US Dott a
 PS es wo  "ros
.t -) oo.
o .::: wSoo oe ae
A, SAMO OO SSlSR SEs aa.
Lem om -COinr ae  &O ot he
 x* DN oe  aas  Se  ABA iQ. (QOraeN SM OS +g ee
. NON SIF ASHS ([ So H-AZS ire) is
i  NN  Tan)  A? te a)
  a
o— -R (| Oy  ne} 
So) sore |o  Los “Ss  OS
 he ov
os oy §
Foro orb rs rs Nin oa noms)
pli iis sk:  wd oe O's S
’ toe setoe Lg nnJwvs na co
Sibi titipi ii ii iB: oo, of o-  
Pbpb bg:  "a Hn eR Sas
ya, soe lei.  ae OF OH ao.
Por Dog  oR 
Pb bist ii igs aa ce,
Ppt  aii: m
ane ore nr
& gigi ii gbigici's
z Elisa lige ig    )
He) -:Ss  :: §:::  .
BR "ott tBg:
S SC Se ey SOGa BS:
oO cq. es sor OD:
aU .f, OmNrpoms-. '
 eovk Oo  Gq nm [a o:n an ee
ys ‘SAV GRASEY 
ca Oo oC  Pee :beg gles
SEvmecmte  
M  ae oS Zm  
- ome hue tom
SSP Reb eesesg ese ge *
SZ Be Eos sk eSL SESS  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

ELM STREET SCHOOLADDITION DEPARTMENT,  .
Materials Payrolls Totals
Finishing Class Room... ..$ 
Balance to ..... ..  .
$ 
Loan..................  
FUEL DEPARTMENT,  .
SCHOOL BUILDINGS.

Accounts Charges
East Dwight Street School.................... 
Elm Street School.......... .. 
Elmwood School..............  ce.  
Hamilton Street School.................. 
High School.........    
High School Gymnasium.....................  
Highland School.......... ....  
Ingleside School. ....  ...      
Kirtland School. ...... .... 
Joseph Metcalf School.............. .........  
Lawrence School.............     
Morgan School............. ences  

 Nonotuck Street School............ .... ....  
Park Street School............. .. |

, Sargeant Street School. .................. ..  

School Street School... ...... .... .. ...  

South Chestnut Street School.................  

Springdale School... .....  ... ce enue  

West Holyoke School.............. 

West Street School... ............  

William Whiting School............. ........  

. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
FIRE DEPARTMENT BUILDINGS.
Central Fire Station......................... 
Elmwood Engine House......................  
Highland Engine House......................  
Mt. Tom Engine House......................  
Relief Engine House...................... ..  
$  ,
Buildings Other than School and Fire Department.
Accounts Charges
City Farm...  ... ne 
City Hall...  ...    
City Hall Annex and Police Building...........  
City Yard....  ... nee  
Hillside Hospital... ....... .. .....  ...  
Holyoke Sanitorium...................... .. *
Pumping Station............  
School Department Offices....... ............  
$ 
Miscellaneous.......... ..      
Summary Fuel Department,  .
Total payments for school buildings............ 
Total payments for fire department buildings. :
Total payments for all other buildings..........  
Miscellaneous............. .......  
Total expenditures....................... 
Transfer from............... ..     
$ 
Appropriation. ...........   eens  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
: HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASIUM,  .
Matenals Payrolls Totals
Miscellaneous............ 
New toilet room .........  
Opening and inspecting
swimming pool..........  
Site...................... 
Swimming pool............  
Total expenditures... .$ 
Balance from  ....  
Loan...!........... :
  ,
: ISOLATION HOSPITAL,  .
Furnishings...............  
General Construction, (Ad-.
vertising)............. 
Miscellaneous.............  
Plans and Specifications. ... , 
Total Expenditures... .$ 
Balance to  ....... |
: 
Balance from  .....  
Loan.................  
$ 

@
fot MON ID Ohm WO +H iO HO MN HI] OD
EOBARARGSORSSSTLIAR HSS |(K
Sip tt isis nh ow Det IiMANNAAMIS
pe oy
 ANOea  
m re SY ed axe x
NI
ry
Cd
O.--.- -mp mN  oO ON  x
Eom Qs 'S:  -SES al
a :
“@  HN .- Naw te OOO TE
.  
vm)
r.] . . .
ee  iS: Mt ,
. . eo .
O Ss
. a
Cd
So
ro)  . .
  Be Sls |
co lw
To) 
, ame
ra

. UL HAN ee”.
  ge  AN wa . 
“ 
a oe
— Ye
 ‘cS HOO awotatst -ON
  PS SeBRRERKSISSFRSASALSZS SSI.
a Cs  . . .
KF MOA HOD HO OM On ss t
  gj Iw eooe din nN ir als
CON  Q
Zz. rr
pad
on! .
a c
RONTOAN -NHtDMOAN —
 eSsSRAONDY Ot oa mR wen Om as fe
Cem HTOOnDM BH BANNDOH Bin: OTK
as  ON OQ  uD OD wl oe)
Nn We)
rr
ee
a 
go te (Bf bot ot! Le
. DB.we ., oo.
 ns  -o  Py .G »— wy  '
w YY ae  Yio; nn )
o nop) -NoyvddrYrisdown
ow »—D nav Oo
- o
 of}  pr Ow am QO OG YweooOontsg
n‘OS  SSC HV VOM SOY
Az oe SEEH Ve BUM #
mePFASSnABAVP CP EAL EL BE
Vy FO Ss oN Se US
Sk SZ RZEXRav aV’Ouvg gs
Ane HPF  go  oN ws ae A
 gg@ at wd On gw.
QE bg MU wMwe EES SRE SC BESS
MHEMMUTESM AS AaHAwaanee

On RM AHDIgNO HO HH MAMAS DO
OrROOSM |r AwMrWSCAeKREWER |S DOanm!] »
  . e
xe See Oo hrerRO OD  MiMCaQa lN
TQUENGD  OWrmnNno KAN |N ris |S
 oN ONN  ray mcOnm A
Um  Aoaicon 
ad  oD
re

mMODMS COMM Oo +- -eo] AQ. EN
eSS  ad Reet cet) AQ.)  TA
iz *. Ps .  
OD Dr OH QUO -ew oD fn “A. A
  oO am  Ceopnet emt on @.-- a
Ce] rr .
a
an
ome  ...ee ele ll oe ee
ee. PoP oP dp bob tt Pott
es sy a

e .
e uo” .
ao] ti! en Po .
 es Doon :
a c-   . )
per} bo
I |
 }
,)
. )
co  “N  Ps eo)  .
 bam ‘cs  Le ry Pm Ve) -bre NX ’
  Qerir  ]: Diag bag fife Bois:
ao  no} con “N ry Yon)  '
a“ os fz) “RR Cn .
bt ‘fs  ,
Zz  
nnd ;
fx] ‘
a ONWANH Baowano co, DO ND Oo )
  CMa mN acm OASSEaSas Fale Booe”  :
QB SExaonn [a HOO moO ]S }
sD LET OS ad wear Oo:  Kiddn )
A,  wD mOoOnm |
ZT] HA” ana ew rat Wom -a :
QA Ra bee  ya) }
o) “” |
O of
aoino  |i CO -t#mo-.-.- toe te
orn  .
 NY CW Ns  OA  soe Tos
ae GeBSSn? |S SABI FINS Dot
() tr So “NN  o* .
hand  ;
  |
op oD tt a. pot
. hn!  
, Pt ne DE
Ppt dt ne ae
. *O “Wh :
PoP pod ar Sel:
Poppe --@ any  
- vu ye KE em n
.  PAN  omng J)  “wy
:aa  BO mos
a  Ay RS OS oO.  &
enpennenme “™at om
RS ig  les    eh @& SY ‘oon :YQoME Mapas
QD gy eG isp atixe ge eS
vo F&F e&Es -OS  eens
BuoUDVES L—- Boy HQ  s
—  aS So Yao oud
oO dp mone oS ses UV Lue
beaks GF Soo
 ses  AAP OTE SS YY
SE MOG ro Cr re) oe OVO ba be
ee Ss ih Yy c


t
ea
eu Oy wd |
  Re  
. me  om i
.  Nm ty a
: GtrS ON os ain x
: és ome’) eon  
:  Sas gy
Ne Aa )
as  
| .- ”
a: ‘ot  HN
ae hS GA: 
ifr: SS BN l/s
TH (IL §s
ry *
, a
n
esc: .CG  ;
Be! Ont e
  nN: Do '
 Sor Tt N
wa. ULC
; ra |S Ss
  .
  i. Lojoge: je |B Eal  Be fille  ce moro a
: ole 
: oS cr
| :
oS LY ot :
cS fo ii :
Q So  AES: &:: :
 vu  ON  :
eaeMB: aeaee lets  
a fis) sae: asta oc: :
Zz  AOR: :
 ten fe 
: !
bb Le:
- he WN  :
BR ese Ore  SB ps :
 roe oe  NY me  Se Oh ao Etane   :
fx}. OA |S lon Ssanis ::  
a) eo OFF ZA® Bo :
O ao; oo! ,
  ess) Ck tree
 ae)! oR a: :
Ro  g:  RB se :
)lol Ee  eof: en)  oman
md wRoS os  
S a} ch
re) Dn os
 On
  oc re
Dt as
- rr ry  :
. en en mE  
Db SS 
- PB )
$ Ge  i:
Te BO
‘  ‘Sect:
  Ae le |
 at veo:
BU cute ey,
  -.* so
— sESREES
 Beso gees
vo  oss &
 are ee
oid  SAS ess
ne: gos ful |
. ems
fe 
v bx £Q Oa

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
LIGHTING DEPARTMENT.
Lamps in use November .
Street Lights, Incandescent, C. P. ;
  C. P. Underground ae
  C. P.’ me
. C. P. Underground Os
  C. P. Cn
Park Lights, Incandescent, C. P. Cr
| C. P. Underground .
  C. P. Underground Lt
  C. P. Pe
Bridge Lights, Incandescent, W. sy
Magnetic Lights, He
Pin
NONOTUCK STREET SCHOOL ADDITION,  Pe
Miscellaneous ............ ec     "
Balance from  ....  ..... ................ 
TUBERCULOSIS HOSPITAL ADDITION DEPARTMENT vs
 .

Shelter...................  I

Balance to  ...........  

$ 

Loan  

—

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
WATER RENT DEPARTMENT,  .

Account Charges
: Automobile Flusher................ ee- 
Bath Houses............       
. City Farm...   
City Hall...  ...     
City Hall Annex and Police Building...........  
: City Yard...  ...     
; Elm Street Shop........... ..     
Fire Department Houses.....................  
Fire Hydrants............  ...     
Holyoke Sanatorium.............  
Park Purposes...........      
Playgrounds. .......... ...      
Riverside Park. ........  ...      
School Buildings..........  ...    aes  
Squeegee.  ...   ens  
Street Watering... .......  ees  
Total Expenditures................... 
Transfer from............... cc   eens  
. 
Appropriation... .......c.        

Od...  
  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
ALLEY DEPARTMENT,  .
S oop ie d
. Contracts Pay rolls Totals iz
Ashes, Removal of.........  
Papers, removal of.........  
House Offal, removal of. .$ 
Accidents and IIIness.......  
Dumping grounds maintenance................. :
Miscellaneous............. "
Sanitary Inspector, salary of  
Service maintenance and construction.............  
Teams maintenance. ......  
Teams New...............  
Team Hire................  
Tools Maintenance........ 
Tools New................  
Telephones............... :
Vacations, Laborers ....... |
$ 
Original Appropriation....................... 
Additional Appropriation.....................  
Receipts...  ...     
Total Receipts.......................... 
Transfer from.............   
$ 
Total Expenditures.................. 
Total cost of ashes, papers
and house offal removal  

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTICN,  .

East Dwight Street Footbridge................ 
Balance from  .....  

CLINTON AVENUE EXTENSION,  .
Land.....................  
Miscellaneous............. 
Total Expenditures... .€ 
Loan.................  
FORESTRY DEPARTMENT,  .

Accidents and IIIness.......  

General Maintenance, unclassified.............. 
Miscellaneous.............  
Moth Work...............  
Planting..................  
Spraying..............  
Service Maintenance.......  
Team Hire................  
Teams Maintenance.......  
Tools Maintenance........  
Tools New................  
Trees...  ... ....   .  
Trimming................  
Total expenditures..... 
Transfers from........  
$ 
Appropriation............. 

Molo bb   pbb DoE iit
Sif obi bebe    s: DP Srp:
Sori fbb ob   totpibaiit Srrir:
O :: Pood topo pot tot ott r
”
x “S&S . .
So! Ppp TM pot PoP Dp htt
font . or) .  .


MS ee
ee Dt re Poop tot et
re Dt Poop boIM Poppin! Dopod ib tt
Y .  . .  ry  
S
S .
 ta)   .
RS bi ofS PoP Ppt
 . “AN .  
OQ   "RR   .
m ,
a
é x
  INHSOHMONdH HHO
s ge ER SOSHHEN HOLES ms SESaAS
  Ne
Paladin  Ooscornnrnroec “Om xt
|  SZRSRZ HRBARESSAGSS  ‘RaSSsS
ae  aN Oo MoS
x OD
ea
a
a CrERE ‘eABHMSHSMWA SH  -OOoOr -@
| SR BSNe  OS ESE
— "a! -tO   
ss Em BPFSAST AR (amb is
z ae oN nN Oh
an a) wn oD
| |
rh and
NS SOND OED -AMN WESKEZS YER ERS Cems :
 te eNko ot owed too . e
'  om NUD uD .
™ SIs TIN  OD -OVMDN os NN .
Sey Nn “A t
A TO
. G
. .  .
a oe “Cc oe . . .
Lowe ae ans)  VU  .
HSER IG igY oli CIR BEE ig cis
PEST ICR CaS Im ESB CR el:
. “an wos  cr a) ad .
see UE ES wig ie le
 ol SUG ae! :
, -S Ug: one,Bie
(SYS ie (SG CB Lie Gee te ie lt:
s  eso ce gses te Yee
R ese PLE te BHD IK Leese
SPSL GS LE Ig eA Ie EDS CA lL, foe aS
  TUS PO TPSoe [oO fee Ee 
—a  be ne CG.
coms  um Ue DFReeg (yeCF LeU  oT (mn  
waINo IZ; VW vse sO sO wy 
OCT ey   tea te OEY EE EVM ESE Zee
GSsg PRs esas  "Se EIN Oo RPsox cov
M  ox Dry ..nrY  Oe Sf SD
Sx  [V  Bie Sot. Zea
me essl Cee al Se Oo InN we Se :
ESS oytnA ees Age SLCC ES SES EG HE
. be —
S Ela esses cuSaatouyg Soe so
CBeEalUeg esse yr tx Eees oe tc gereg
B ser tees FP CaS ye SAPS CLOSES
ry? dae  —
La SM UOOUOUUHOC RR HH M| CL AA
—

— a
Sat tt ts oe rsoo). i
so  eC  @— we Be ee
Nn  re
GO ii  pio opipit gor pp rR   pi:
Socl ili bb bb pi   ppb:
me! Prob pop po bop tot bop pobobo tobi et
ol PoP PP pp ep Pb pb pb pp pp ti  

i)
Re
Bo
re Ce
mesos. tl!PoP Pb pb Pp pb tb eb pb db:
SB tb  .    :
Os tf St  
SE the ppb:
Sorte ts  cS Sc
-  es er sy Ss
|
ro
a"
: HHO TR MHNIND NOD oNtHDOeN
x sr rt mw MwMEHANN  -CMmMHM -Arnciros
(x) SARAH Or SEnSZ  ABAAN -SRSRSS 
id —t pd ao) Year) ome OF one arn? EE oe) PAAIN “Nyon QhAN AR Gone -+ AW O
. Reo  oe mom
ys 
x“ N
a Ssydeen Ore Weasminsw OID mM -GQHEON
QO WEF OSOO NIN RANAN .- NH OS Mono
 SENS HeE wo SMNOM-. .. Ot NN AND ORK
ba Sener ceo) am YD KARR ma seq eh Cc  
, Nr  wt es  mm OO
sy{" he
, oom |
Neng
cs
ac i,
a.  MOR:  NOtHaA oNMNSO.. .S  Ii -Oo -wOEmsneo -woon..-: rei.m. OD RS OO tm Cle -oON AN .
S ON oe
 .
*Co} er
Pligg iB
so om le  ei
a Ts ORS
nar—
-  PM ,
a oe PO .
SBS BB ors ve BE:
| of eo)  .
a kr PS )
’  Un .- er —
se eo OU oe "OM mm: soete BOY
-. -oOoYSY .-RB yg
. BR. ea REE Yew. Go...  B. se LES LL tS
zoe fo An  
Dito Se eS pe re eM Ee.
. Py foube e) YU th
Ol: leewse Soe BS  -SUGO :
. mA fY at (e) ie) Ss. gm  (ES
QOn  —-  "Se BGoe Us Ss Yn, —
S  ses Zao eM OG eK see es et se ,
GCLSLSHER Fe. (Uo THERES SLSESeSSESS
. [e)  ve oO. “oO wW wnet ome ey ao
 ySect  ete SUULHAARERS SGAU
; Se Oa Yuvv Bt, oO (op) 
; Up UUs ia SS cos evv
Soke eEOCBMO ESE SS cette
’SS om oom) Ow vw
MmO wn NNN) een PAPE)

  *
Br :
N  e
  oft yo ros
Fo mM]:
elt  
coe ie) .
ell! aS
 pes
O& aee-  .
- oe eer  
” ro .
L B t:  LB
ws Db 
eS! -| 
ne  
a moe we
S tote  oe a
 le: .
ee Bt a
 iis 
on) es Pom coro we
 oul  ere) .
 ey’ ol  ot wt oD
EsZ&

. fs oe yf 
ee BS male VS Yees AO
 ketokaboaie ian NIN  SS mon rid  +
  SRO RASS  os Do

SRARELS (O  TA  oS en
™  CS) RESELS an Sa) fr) t
 oD ESR EES NCO se a
 rt SFERR Ye) .
fx) Loot oe a) ra) isan  .
Q  re  ev 
ZSrs "| Sl:  
fw) ein ss  .
 Lao “OM “O ”
; See   ao: not o
 te a? co && SO Qa, pee
 SS ERB BESERSR mB ll: er:
i  OD er eoN SRS ano: G
  ET EN OO oe ot ed
O  iC oO —
a SR BZ a
Nitiolan tr  nm sos Soa ‘me Q,
— on im oe can) ws one pan
 Sr Tas  ey  Y
#” ml “tt NTO vo O
— ‘, -
co: rn  Eco og. e
. Sa "|  DN LO  
. CG wh 
yt yt ok 
col Dot Doe “I  as)  QO.
ee Ss pr} Q.
  
oJ   ao 
Sa ae ot “B+ —
zug yi oft St i& "ss  —] fe) Ss
Way  .
 Eo
Se oa dd
Oc oa at
 cs ,YY Oo .
re) o. Das ;
  Ay ‘a .
. Yu  ‘ch ae) .
i} (eo ox TES .
[w) oc    “J  eB  EM es “Ss! wo
 Cie  
Le p) eese ss  a)  Ss
Ee ES Eas os gine 
bf  so LESS ‘a
Se
 

a |
a al a
a) yo,
Oo ib it otoio io top ot tot toll :
#”
MOAMOONNOSEMMONWDNWMKR AHN Qed
SCAR EGOAMOBNSASANAHOMNECSMN: wove
Le SS Sc Si, »- 
SLTNAPRSRAASAROROMAS-Y he  
ScD) SH SEABMMHMSSSRASROZ OND
RA  ZACK Hae NNOSCS Ms MAINNM
Ay
 ic ISRRNSSSR SSeS Sha: ODat
ae ‘DO MHONORSANSOOHTS SHAH NnOSH
Se ——e
HD HM HORMINMOMAHAMHREA -hOM ONDSD
. SSR CSRS RAMEN OED ID S| HOEK
 sma HT NMA O&O me Ne Oo a)
 oF Ss aay 
oe fe
et Z, TBSSCRARS SND SB QB: tan “ot LS OID SMS Cae Ht GOH HM cO nN SQSAHVAlS VSHX Qra- hd OnthNm  Spas ER DMD: DP. AS  Se ODO OMOH Het MO Ds ANS  oO co 

| A.
‘ hx, .
- 
,  
a:  Pb bt ab pt Bs
en) Ce re res
O PIB ta tig Ble
|   SB De nH
. ro OS
. em 
: ee
. Z.  
{x} Se  ES Ro A
oo (+  -U i
ot  Bota te HOD Sg
Ro BE nn 
.  “to  :: :S
: fx) eteeOs rn }
: i” oe ew ew  eerhlLC UE +
Ru eS kB ree
: nS oS
  ee: se Loe GB. SEAS eg
i on
“oo On: eters st 
---:- :-B
; Ce a,rc Yo hao Me ae o
:  Se  DO ood
, "oh Ok cn  OO rr  )
(ig (nV'S (Og. ke Bute ls
-  oe oe lu
le meg les Pir  iy ee. LN
-  soy wW- .
. OBS ae os Di Leos "ec GEG TE
a te aG& -& .O “S -§
(' OB yg  ‘SL MEOTE- OG
(BONS Ee  gesksee  ,
: Be ese FO ES: CE CE EGU MOS. uw
  erSSo sc EE AEegs sta eS
. Oo yaben oom
S ‘Segal la foun "wOO eZ RY
—— [nd tee. ww SO 
) ot SB VPP LY wv OO wemee Ly UV YAAK “Ay ev
 A. so  BO .
oO  Zz gee tTtauot
CS wy cewewO oe SS SG vo Ug UW)
GB YVYGOUOY -vehtOS QL Sovagvose
baae) PO oe Qn im Gout g—
SB @b Sarat st sto eT HHO eV ca
CEN  SB FSVE LS eg uw  oS ghd
EGC Rot otc Css regp aes Slory soe
oom eetaw ——— Pet
HANMNMOUULVUUANHHROLTDeYHAaA AZZ


  oo, to
  SIR Bs]  
S PION PS DR eo)
  igs: gle
: MS rot feo)
Rw STR
oe TR
| wo
  wh -) 
+ eo
Sesag  (ShS Eas .
re  es ry
BERS  SESERSE :| 
s. IDNA in
re
uD
 rvs
  Lh OCs ,
 BRE  
See og leg Ine: IBROS 
. pes: res :| 
j§ sSS SRe  ‘|
  |
: ae  x
  eq Pe m
§ ZNNHS NSS  RK |falaa 
(AAA NO  ltt "| we Pe  wD 
[ Sead  INOScam tea ewe S
| Sge |selas *
‘ Om ea sta
& on eS 
| o
: a
: St ga
Z   .
Ee
    Sec   See at,
A. eres Ee
fx] SP ts:  oa
a) S ne Geen a
Pe Fo Be 
pt PB: .:  Doe ts  :an B's 
eo: IS Sei gt: ae:
ry Ee er re Bl: ie
PoP tr emt Se
Oo Agi: isi Re:  
ry me   
SSB: 
Sg.   il oe il!  Se
as Ceres ee BSS
et Sennen, See go BEE
Z. Pe bo eg af ese
See on ey A
 moe: St og
Seti lila  gs
 Be  reSs 
eae oe me
S GB EE “
we Big BE :
 am:  :
BE  eS :
go :
of sseete ES
 bl eoe-.- Ess ‘
 Babess  
SEs SSesis Bee
Sw ble   
OS sige igEs &
S 
O  -: Bes |
S syste epee
wa cts  |
Se S
ai” S
rs yun Ve VY ES S
  SEnEe
POLE  be
  SEES SE
on

—
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
LARKIN AVENUE OPENING,  .
Excavating...............  
Land.....................$ 
Miscellaneous.............  
Total Expenditures... .$ 
Loan....  ...........  
PUBLIC WORKS CONTINGENT,  .
Contingent expenses........................... 
Telephones... .......... 
Total expenditures......................... 
Transfer from... ..........      
$ 
Appropriation...........   
SALARIES—BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS,  .
Lynch, Thomas J., Chairman................. 
Walsh, M. F., Chairman.....................  
Allen, James A...     
Ducharme, Israel....................... ..  
Ferry, O. Co...    
Cleary, Irene F.....   .  
Ashe, Marie D....................... ..  
O'Neill, Katherine M..................,......  
Callahan, Katheryn M........................  
O’Connell, Frank, Inspector of Public Buildings  
Winkler, Henry, Superintendent of Outdoor
Work. ces  
Total...   ee  .  
Transfer from................. 
$ 
Appropriation......... ....  fees  

& *
ee oo.
uc sofort .
Qi: Foe re Pr Qo: 
Pr Br See een-|x
, Toot ss "| N
  Sl Te  
— oN: |
S Qo  *
tC Si yee tone
SRS Bit ig: Dl RBR
we Qo: id: Dt OS FR:
& eas ft 
n  (yt
  -eto .
are:  
Go fo Oo...  —
Seo oan iC! toes *
RS mg BSR:
a Oe ‘: Do Sore: cos Fort
an ss Ree  
IAN RO: |
"O eS woe, tok 
NX bd af ron)
SR: oll te!  Sb ae co SR “
o SEB Melo! ®: cls
wtce '& S| :
Ca mt ut
(x) S$  BASS  
cS oe oe QR:
Soy SBP OS BS :' B:ABS
EO :& BARS oo:
ti AN bd . QO
ee  aed oR ORT Be wo z
A,  “oO: x
te :tOU 
a “he NW rs
ae eKor} oO -i ]
| ce   le Qn: *
t  za aR” es Pl:
 an: ‘A Sei  s: oO ot
fx mus BQ:  ,
S:  “|
Sia *
  in ime. ‘So :
 oD OO om Zsa
 “# iN ck “AA am ae “wow :
  LO oR igew ia  
oN ew ‘ol ok ban
 rm g
ee

» yor

er Sot ‘Ac US

 a.

er Bo! “Bog Foro hots Dogs

ton! od GRR:  g) FE

. ,. yy tbe [ee ov soos rr ae .

. eons ct .
mek gees, ee
sisal died, &
ety pe diedi  

NM "Sue Eee ob‘wea -vo  ae .
SO BAG IS  OA Fig  SD

  ED ne PAS Be ees Ae :
Ooo UP Og wou’) ac.  vo.
osc BaP oF Sees (bleep eense (nO:

  Ar od gested ata esee Liss:
Siac ib ben eh   -S .

a  Se ER CES  .

eesa SMES ao We  Boe -o#  tae V.  ease am &

So Ee BESS et Ok a:

E wm Vee c— 

SSElgee gee Seg Sz bas aan .

elsbe ’ Ss  .v ;

: Eoeebes Sie Be:
Ons vvs

PP Sees 

Paw  

HEWN


 
t
é
,
e
;  ok... oO Oo
.  SSS  
& to ltclecolo So Re)
we TRS OO Sas Yo)
: gs mS |Re [ean Boa
 Om hk rt tt tt
ae  a
: rt
£ a
e ‘om  e
Zz. oe it
? be Dot
\  tn Poff
| ot tot
“ A, ee
F Wo Dont Dot
\* :: Pott
} .
Mw fy Dot Dot
  (x) wn oe
: ae to
é  ms  .
t Hl Dt
“i Fp) o— sGeE  .
ra vo  
é mous eos: ,
wm st oO we so 
sc Oo. om .
w” wv be te be
» av ow eo eros
B Pt Ow Owe to
  EY EE od on on AB)
ry ot ome .
S
+ +
  
Ee

mM.
Sorib :
s  .  .
Goo tt Dtee
re ot
  .
wy Ot
og (ER Sa not
  Seovaee any  ‘ees Sega ANS xt ere (OO :&
SS OaTS SA Fe lepine leies
ns BR RRS IPR CSR
  Big ar
rm
As tt  
Za Oe HPOsAN
Se wee GOD OD -d
  oes NoamMSh
Sh Seertetee sas SIABA BS Fl i
& ota Nol eRe) olkanawrKo  D:
e  ry    .
  Jo) tS ST oe  .
  Do, ;
wy
Ne) ZI cn
. MISS
peat  .
 red ‘BES ‘$  Daw
S vA)

- QD  ‘o
. uc OS RRS Tent OD
 or) AS eN eS ne
". te |
a,
fm Oo: :@ -:
lad tone 
mm  ON: soe  -O yooh ts
[ moe le toeDo

 . .
 |e )
te  s:
es me  ! Dnt  
( REO rr ott @rili sii
  mo Dol PP
( 
Zz, 

oO. .
x BSRZicBisii  :

P  . a) .
as)  Ns yo see “SH Fort .
ea  ‘ot   .
a,  .

Por NBS
Ppt een ee
: ae a} og . .
rn ceo: soe soe.
; “ob : . .
Pott  ‘e  "Bor tt tt rors ts te
Poort eB Bog lig iris:
. oa eve  as) fot  .
moh "os "efSn rn (Oi li ti.
ee ereee ee
Clg Be Pchg RE esgic:
Mm tk BAZ EP LESS  i! Qa: "ES es an
. oOo  nv ov e@v  Se sesa celle OBC GQe .:
S  ABER ERAS “ES ge ER EEERS
en poe es gO ig BEE aS Rae:
QO CH UZ to we! ZO 
nv an +
  ne oegU wnweeo ml A
 vo abs SOU UE wt nev  
Oss ha os La YS  F& yo vd  
Vr ones  Bawa  es  be
 wt
ROSH at gS Frans Ese No 
On mESZSSEDE pee ees ete a
— mano  EoT Set SE k! vw GS 
Os B: QO,
SESgLEESESISESE CECE CEs
az awa vO MeO EE Ua ss
Serer EZrrc# g
UA): unr id 
oO maa se mo 

a
w& se  Ce |
ee iB
mori ®t ors
NSVen} eo. Ian
  tf B
#
RB
Do .
  LOonm es  a
  reom ;
 SES: rt  un 
S CO 
i eo  S
 PAS  bead
S  “pe
Ox
  moo .- S
SZ SSB: of S/ 
com. oO
e  H: BA SIS
c ot!
. MA, no  NS “
 a
g  RR
  ow  on {fn
E  Oa} an to] Bie 
Sc -s  CO  (om) aA ht sO  e
a. ,; Na mRoe lo
gas  B: BS RIS BGs Ss Se  
|  ‘Do: eo RID FAILS ome 
.  oO i"  —
L re te en a
s  ”
 &.. :
@ Se :: fof
 foi: [BR Be: Doo Dts
A Ss ciig to ii ila ac: root? Dnt
N »-  
SB iB fii Beit of gi ii:
N @gY on. :
fo os :: ff
e B::  BB: to
 Oot (oO: Dot
Boe   sts we RCS  Dot
a os  a. DI
SE cris: tt tle  So
mee TR BSe fae ia
Soil! (|Q  RN BS :
Gl SF an TS Pe Qa ..
te om ae
zoN Yr Og ac!
  ous  Ee.
Se -| Beg  eae
ea) wy  ea 
Ss Qosiott  ges  £o$
or “|Rnse aad
oY
 mA oon -one 
Soee .
ey Ol fl le  @! re
. ef og  ig )
Gott irasg YO,
Ss oi tre  om
rr re
 .MmO .
Soho tgs -voe ,
eli iB ERs |
DtYG
Pilg (Bl gges
oo'tS -u WWM
ww Zz -o wmeos
- .. we OL
Soo le IU liv’ BYE
See SF 
S 
VALS  netne
een ORES
Mog:   eon
EB- -O Gic ko
. qe eksS ceo eud
ec yv r
PRESS OSE sas
A RRER Bp

 If
bed  “a  |
uv  a
  rT) uv »y Sey to fw!
  Se Sa Ss Ss
coe. me Se reee oe
iss  wa ha
o'v vs  v.E vf vf vE
; of po uw ou Q's Oo o
eo Po oa oa of OG
nia  BA OS BN BM BM RW
  En Fy ro Exo Eu Eu Eu
- ms  pee —c —a —c  cl
— &wy Le  me ae Ha hae
a
Lo) co oe  
alt ae ne oe ae a
em  ra) fos) —
Sia  fy 
oo GS Ro) Oo ra)  —
as Nn oO )
- rs ot nN lO eo |
pola ££. Be oa
——)ee  . S
‘a
-c
 a
Vv
are mo om
sows |s ow  )
» 
“ .
|  a
   SS ae an  ;: a.  |e vo
 eV bao  
cipeale"  Fs SF
oS ze|e nan nf an yg O
 “Yio  i) ro] a) na
ain be Ea
Zz lls ret  
ug
— wn So gee Se ara ae a,
Blo T] oOo i) a
ot as 
A )
fx] pa et ce —

  ‘
' —
eS a. :
- “) we
Z  s
a  *. .
: SS Se ae tye aS
 UR Se Re ae ee! BS ees
a  e- Heome. Ye o
u  V-.-  Pe svo oa er
LZ.  om vw  .
a“ ££ v-:  e- ‘S wine  aa *
oO  re  “rat es Ow oss E: *
® @)  ten iy  Sa eo  ve ot oO .: Ca a” —E ®
meiwi .
 So See. g++ &ba  faa) ga .'S |
op) nm Wh aea
gS  ve On eo uw 
a s“s ‘oS .
f] os Pir  Ha “ay Oo
 av ‘SOc cG r)
i fe een Aeeeee
 Zz: Ec: 
nn SS eet Se   a
E ££
Se Be Ras BS ROE Bo we
eo &:  »* 
a) os rs ry  s+  Ne  
» ek:  &. Vv ec £B ea: S
[oe oF ea, apn?  bs
ve StBe a
 oe! tS;  
. Ss We. A. Sd os
en t) aes Las &
u om ;
mie wee Mm  wee,  
Oi" ease a. mo. OF. Boge Sse S
 —— CO. we Oat Ss
Ge Ov"  Ocsevw  eco, Ga  
S Se: ae av av Gis O- ae o
—
|e tS  em  Au ia
 ar re ,
O. tses) uv
Rey. ogo Bat se
ee Beka? EE oN MES ee
Sige BE fhe Fs  
Elo  oO  cs Ned  bo 
an fe Gen  —
  “— vy  ‘ee a
Y ws at  Yo! Ne)
VJ NS Oo NN N
oo ar »
a |: as eae re. tia re
efew  a; 
- vw aa
u 
co] wn re)  
mie es  v
a ft ms  EB  
ai  ‘aa rs) a
ao Ue: Gh  Ee i
|. Ole pb  GC. BG. oO k
es/  es oa Ss ST od 
wz  
Digitized by Google

Henne a
Bp
os
 
a— :
O 
sy S
SB ae  
Ee “et :
. E
 is
: Ss eo i! v
 iF ade  :
E Oo u& 
”  Same :
ee Be :
C Eo  —— :
en :
. ef
# Fa —
e  ye  
-  ;
 |
: ;
Be  
ae) gs :
in Pa z
 —@  &
Z  e
/ Aue :
 
coe

eos |
 sas z
od lg Sae lialy
 .
; se .
ELE:ay BS
elt] fe ar
r} ay Say |
Ef +e c. .
E cs A
  cA Sc 
pL. Fr
  wl  
- Fe  co bt, Pa :
: th n
CS Se Bt,
.  
a :
a ot  :
N
Fe:
; eo on oS ow
— .
& &
guy) f
A es ei |
i oe
 |
Vas: ,
| .
  an
Ln  .
on  ri   
aD) o's  :: |
lad ag  +
oo ae :
oe  os a: iu
N oe |
  ia
’ Z. ie ia
Be we  ow vA
 FR :
O MR acc an a
  ft ei  pe ne
 Ake g
 OD soa  Ay
WV Se. Hee
S ae at ze
ao
fad Ss ae  
a SE Sa  e
fx)  o.. ba  
iS is EB Ss 
ee  o-s 
a:  rs)
fx] os On ag  eo eo &: sc +
 Zao: Se) ate Zi  :
un on 
ry CO ww .
 —. oO. Zz :
cg “a Sab,
 PT is 
a om uv  r
 ve os yA Roe |
oe ao ir 
Qe e—at) Se a
is |e rs) Se oe he
  EE c—
c tn] 
Tt iu as :
: an an av
  wo -. 
abn, ti-ot a
ve by be,
é as he Of ;
c 
rs ‘o's On P
H  os Ke  :
  .
  .& ;
ewan Ss  :
r}  
Ss be ete ns :
- 
Ez ne
vu oe  :
  od Co we  os o.  Sale  
w Se |
o zo wn a:  
'S) om  ae se ;
Z cj Ae :
Oo  Ss :
te  el  :
 a) oF ae :
WZ  mas §
  &
 )
Digiti
ized b
y OOQ e

 .
Soi it Fotos
SEPP eb a
ef ii: sts
—  om te .
OF '& Ne : Ven) is
 Fe  :
. .
  oan Ved ,
eS  nN .
SE :fck: Do ote
 Doe am PoP ptt  als  Loe,
he  oe [oom rots
  Dt
me, 
Sorts el
Sib Bo Bs
Ss oO OQ .
oO yt mt
wt nor OD
a ou Seok :
Z. SESSEe rt
, es rk
bd Qe BSR SR ETE Ss. Us CUS
 Q— wth OD [OO ten OO ap)  S
. OC aN Reel eich Cm  a) “tH  
HW OD  bp  h
 ed Oo wa  oo.
lad  —
mG XS rays
A. ms OD
’ oe naan)
pa Wy SHERSS means
A RS mecane ‘Seas rH |
Pam Sete LENS ae 
wv Lawn cnt ‘Sanaa we eS *£ :&

‘On (Lon)  CS ‘Or
— co  ie) .
 t+ :|B
- ‘
i) er}  N
Q SS ISSK ;

 I; oo
n  "oO “eS FER
£ :ERa -s STINE  (N ft ——  .
we, ey Nr  oe  H
— onan) an) a
.  oo. “CN
 .
a
 N
  ig .
  oof os rs nL
or es Do, oy th Ia: ,
“wow  Do -& -€ .o -g Te can
o ‘os ‘of oe  ses
& *. el  §*G ar  oF.  some
[W)  ws 
"Yor (Yor "Bot gy “eg PS ot:
a mors ao rororor os ‘oa oY -s ‘Eo! “Boo
.  oe el be os oi tae -e :
. rae by .
ne  ‘of oe  IBE IM BESS SS: a
ho Zno'f ne sos (ES tee “hoe rn oy
; oO SG! (EEE TBE ytR gs
 cep ss ro Se fe  "URE og os
eos Ege ts se eeg ye oe
Bé LT SEf ss Ze Dig
O  gta ices SES  re Vr au  ae seen toe ass te
O Fvsostnvs SE SSS Ss EMC Ss eD SS
” eltZzgeugre -— YU "OS  a
 RS oof a, Uke Oe Cue  
ueinlipe did
eta et Syzegesseasse
cenVevegux RUS  oy Ce Hh? yn ec
mU  aes ZZ  ex Sup ugux v
of »\ fw” fet penn Vo
——{—  £O v.
,  awe  
  


 ieles. "eis   oe eel gy fe! CORR eo me
ie fe eh “eae” ob   
a ae ES, ot Eady te ee
a nm de ae hae AG Te” en GeeSo em Se et ugRS
oa reoy Sek ie aS ae ED eo abcess gtae
  ee. te:     ees bop oe eae og.  
 SS  he Se dee Beacd Ve i


ene oo) ape aes ok eaeBee
a  MeSe ORC a
“ie
R
z,
BP GR Ee SOeng espee ae
 er ge {ar oe OS SO Sw os ASBS
 ae ve a. c. oe Ga me
  
. ca)  Ono MOEPND WAaVGon -nNAM
Hi  Tom ASS SSSERS SSSSESES (NA
 BOM BROMO ONMONRSD WHO
c&
h cc moN TRA NAF OR BSOSASH FAA
rp on vl SS RN. we N
-. 
x} fy
s UV
Zamo an. HHNM MWOEMR ROM
tb Re: SASRS SSSS  RSE
‘ es  oo. fe itee el a; EF ey Fae et. ea oe hlUCUC
Oo a. eH Not nm BE: ASAE BSSA ORAS
A. Sj
' 
ag
—
  “MID DOD -“OHMOW COO -oNnI 
:  Bou G&G HAS mHoS  '—‘i. oe  a: Ch weSa! oe eT eATe ee
  (x) sot  
é Saw 
—
— .
Nn
.
wi tg? oe "a: a, ae ‘a fej CaeAe) at he” “ee” es Fai ae
Pee eS Sk see my CG  ae ah G
ae  iaBo BB. Wee's. PE  
cs   ees fae Oe ara ae
a? Oe ae ye eaeeae
Se SO St BOO Soe Lee Clee le aead
. com BAG leh Se, FOee oe eth heao
(aeaeae Oe   ss
- oe Cc vo [a]
, ae ean eS bc Be feces -, ae
SIG EOS gee eo SS eh ees |
& eS ewe eves Sees   es *
wh. er we—- SSCsan  in  eUeRESaa Srmeascsew oee ss gS ass me cS
OSgF ORC BER PELE osee Sy:
—, ba  a. Ser tet:
Soe esavrvrgstevenr ss isola eo  
Oo Ve ARraBvgnsynres -FESS  s.
“oo CLwae, OO Sg Bn Sieber se Wonw, sel 
SUS moOeMNEVPNa SCPE Te
SSeS OME SOURS US OBES pon, Ores
ZSOGZPoeReaBeORSegsehsoessg eS
SS Zz Tbe he Po Ne ep Bi  e# S
A, Ay A. NMNMN NNNWN in

s iw:
 ,
he p: a
 |g :
eo |
,
x.  
St das
S's a
ra |
 A
Re
RB
w
  
.  
g Lo
a  
Ss “
hey CON Yen) at af
  /SS/S ssi
e am re oO Hn  :/  BS/AE $R\s
S Di des  Ton  ros w#  
g OS |* 
S no oe .
 .
 e-.  oo
“A a
Y  ne .
.  cE :.: mo: 
Z Gh  
aS eo: mots ct
a Dot Do
ra ok of !
 oS ‘Tt  a
  SI ogo
fz} oO YM  "a; soe
ANA BASS i: SE py ow wWé  .
 eo on Pine)  )
M os Pee a
  es  Eo
 onl ac a. .
; he A
  N|'I  H-Es  
a  |Sce
  Ee’ 
SS
 ww
oO
wo! EE
ae
eo!
oe :
QA: .
Lt
oOo .al.
 .
Oo:
b ix
zo is
 
Se:y
: Oo. is
of EY
  A
  .
ec
Ovo
o FS
ee

REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
PERMANENT SIDEWALK DEPARTMENT,  .
NEW CONSTRUCTION
ACCOUNT Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Accidents and Illness.............  Lees  Lewes
Allyn Street  curbing, south side,
west of Pearl Street............  Dees
Allyn Street Walk, south side, west
of Pearl Street (not completed) Lees Lee
Appleton Street Walk, south side,
east of Oak Street............. Lee ae
Automobile........... .........   Done
*Bh Street Cement Curbing.... .O  Dees
Bh Street  Curbing......... Dees
Bh Street Walk between Northampton and Sargeant Streets... Lees
Brooks Avenue Walk, east side, beHampden St. and O’Connor Ave. ae
Charles Street  curbing, east side,
north from Laurel Street.......  Denne
Charles Street Walk, east side,
north from Laurel Street....... Denes
Chestnut Street Walk, east side,
south of Suffolk Street......... Lees
Chestnut Street, Tree Belt, west
side between Hampden and Lyman Streets............... n re
City Hall Court  curbing, both
SIDES...    Doe L 
Davis Street  curbing, north side,
west of I-]lm Street............. Lee
Davis Street Walk, north side ,west
of Elm Street.................  Lees
Dwight and Northampton Streets
Curbing, north-east corner...... Lees Lees
Engineering Work............... Lae Dees
Fairfield Avenue,  Curbing, south
side, west from Pearl Street.....  Lees
Fairfield Avenue  curbing, south
side, abutting No.  ..........  Lene
Fairfield Avenue Cement walk,
south side west of Pearl Street... Leas Lene
Hampshire and Walnut Streets
Walk, south-east corner........ Lees  Dees
Hampshire and Walnut Streets Tree
belt, north-west corner......... Dees
Harrison Avenue and South Street
Walk...... ee. tea tee.
*Hillside Avenue cement curbing,
Cherry Street to Westfield Road,
both sides....................   Lewes
Hitchcock Street cement walk,
north side, between Hillside Ave.
and Westfield Road............ tee.

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
PERMANENT SIDEWALK DEPARTMENT,  .—Continued
NEW CONSTRUCTION
ACCOUNT Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Howard Street  curbing, west
side between Allyn and Hampden
Streets.....  ...   Les
Howard Street cement walk, west
side between Allyn and Hampden
Streets...   ae
Irving Street  curbing, east side Dees
Laurel Street and Brown Avenue
Cement Walk, at Laurel Hall...  Leas
Laurel Street tree belt, at Mahoney
block...  ...    Lee
Linden Street cement walk, west
side, abutting Prescott property Leen a
Locust Street  curbing east side,
between Sargeant and Franklin
Streets............    Lola
Locust Street  ”curbing, west side,
between Sargeant and Franklin
Streets...  .. cc  eae Leas
Maple Street Walk, east side, north
from Appleton Street. ......... ae
Materials paid for from former ap- .
propriations................-. been Lees Lees 
Miscellaneous........ .......... beet Le 
Newton Place  curbing. east side,
south from City Hall Court... .. bees
Newton Place cement walk, east
side, south from city [tall Court Doe
Nonotuck Street  Curbing, east
sid@.... oo. Loe
Nonotuck Street curbing, west side,
abutting Ranger property...... eae
Northampton Street  curbing,
west side, north from Winthrop
Street...  ... Lia
Northampton Street Walk, west
side, north from Winthrop Street ee
Old Ferry Road at Smith’s Ferry,
cement walk... ...............  toes
Pearl Street  curbing, east side,
north from Highland Avenue....  ae
Pearl Street  curbing. west side,
north from Highland Avenue.... Lovee
Pine Street  curbing east side,
south from Sargeant Street..... ae
Pine Street Walk east side, south
from Sargeant Street........... Lee Lee
Pleasant Street curbing, west side,
abutting Lynch property....... Lee Deas
Pleasant Street Walk, west side,
north of Highland Avenue .....  ...  bene.

ay
‘
REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.  
PERMANENT SIDEWALK DEPARTMENT,  .—Continued.
NEW CONSTRUCTION
ACCOUNT Materials Payrolls Totals Credits
Us Printing and supplies............  veces
Railroad Street Walk, West Side,
abutting Will-Mont property... Dee Coes
Race Street Tree Belt, cast side, ;
between Appleton and Hamilton
Streets........ ...   Lea
Sidewalk Plant........ .... boca Deen
Sargeant Street  curbing, south
side, between Pine Walnut Sts.  Does
Sargeant Street Walk, south side,
between Pine and Walnut Streets Loe  Leen
Service Construction............. Lees
South Street Walk, south side, east
of Northampton Street.........   bene
South and Northampton Streets,  ”
circle stone, south-east corner... Leas
South Street Walk, south side, bebetween Harrison Avenue and
Charles Street................. Dees
St. Jerome Avenue  curbing, west |
side, south of Dwizht Street.... Deen
Stock on hand: Curbing. ......... Leena
Miscellaneous. .... Lees Does Lee   
; Sycamore Street  curbing, west
side, between Essex and Cabot
StreetS...... ce   bees
Suffolk Street  curbing, north
side, west of School Street...... Lee
Tools Maintenance.............. bee Lees
To be refunded to other Depts..... Lees Lees Lee  
Taylor Street  curbing, east side,
between Hampden and Lincoln
Street ...  ... eens Leena
Taylor Street Walk, east side, between Hampden and Lincoln
Streets...  ...       bees
Walnut Street Walk, east side,
south of Hampshire Street...... Leen
Winthrop Street  curbing, north
side, west from Northampton St. re
Walnut Street Walk, west side,
south from Sargeant Street..... wees wees
$  

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
PERMANENT SIDEWALK DEPARTMENT,  .—Continued.
Summary Permanent Sidewalks,  .
Total maintenance cost..... ............ 
Total new construction cost.......... ..... 
$ 
Less credits...............     
Total expenditures................... 
Balance to  .......  .............  
$ 
Balance from ...................  
Appropriation....................... 
Receipts... .......   ees  
$ 
*See also Permanent Highways.


. e
St &
gS: &
é  for) Oe)
: oO iS o
 as Y-) a
*  iz To)
Sr  om a
on

tr
—"
 oY)  
be  
ee tS Bienes Die
ae SHESASEAYE Ss  rts ats
a OHnOCOnOOe pe eit AES
te} 
.OO FantOo
S ot SR ind O
.  Co oo! St ee
ato! So |
JZ .§ ge Meo eli i
: ag las an -g tol
x oO Baeweg eS ig ad a
ed oo’ :
os  ws yas om  esseca  
- SO wo SO xs bom) oy sok .
eG ROSSR  Se Se ae: se
i RS ao Se eese ge
{o) Oo ouas» ro co VU Co. SR SS
(z) tx) m™mOREGmYE  sO-  sg
  nd  ES Geena :
fx] On ets  
Acts cSHS Boe
: mMOAOmWO SOR
. QO
”
ond
Loy
a Sa  a
bP  
fx} BS an) SS :
é ™
§
se fe Be as  
S  s
fad ;
fx) &
 ‘
for 
me SF oO wD ze eS
 Bis
fx) Ss mo ON  
: CO InlonN
en no” mT 
: uf) Uf
Ve) tt ed
Es a: 
fo) E:  
O wc  hee ss a: :
Be:  ae to ae
je) cz. a: “” sc S: B:
— Oo wo  oe Bf
 Zz: ry  o-: Ge  
be oO: &@ £: sf. Cae
(  A:  SE.
  eS: an) mT ve on}  to  oS  
SB: og  ae Nn Pos} :
os om! rs) ,e x: e
v i. Oa  s. pS
- eg PY a
- ce 
oc eo oa eS. —
BB: 
e ea  .— .i: sé an
o oO. og +.
oF: Od: eo  foes |
 So ag
:  ry) LY oO: AS
A Oo oO :
waa rr  ER
OD Oo. we)  |:  yb:  
S#e ge
Nw v. :
nm Le  ER mS gs
oo  
ei  tg
 s) hes ys  
o ys Gs of oz aE
C SQeo” vu
co  ne
  SS TS amy  f] As  e”
 Z, "
Ay

  REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
STREET FLUSHING MACHINF,  .
Automcbite Sprinkler and Street Flushing Machine 
Loan.............  
STREET WATERING DEPARTMENT,  .
Account an eo oliss Payrolls Totals
Automobile Flusher—Opertion of...............$  
Carts (water) operation of..  
Miscellaneous.............  
Oil storage tank...........  
Road Oil. ................  
Road oiling equipment.....  
Street hydrants, mainten- :
ANCE...  ...   ,
Tools maintenance.........  
Tools new................  
Water GasCil.............  
Labor performed and ma, terials furnished for
which reimbursement
will be made.......... |
 Total expenditures... ..$ 
Transfers from........  
$ 
Appropriation...............     

—
: REPORT OF THE
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, City of !
Holyoke, Mass.

Gentlemen :—

The forty-third annual report of the City Engineering
Department for the year ending November  th,  is
hereby submitted.

RECEIPTS.
By appropriation.......... ........ .......... 
Transfer......  
$ 
EXPENDITURES. |
Salaries of City Engineer and assistants..........  .
Office supplies... .......     
Team hire, car fare and expenses................  
Printing and binding .....................-  
Telephone service..............     
Engineering periodicals.....................  
City Directory. .......       
, 

Balance unexpended.......................  

$ 

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
BRIDGES.

In December  Professor Lewis E. Moore, Bridge and
Signal Engineer of the Public Service Commission made an examination of the bridges over which the cars of the Holyoke
Street Railway run.

In his report to Mayor Woods, Professor Moore recommended the reconstruction of the Valley Bridge and the Cabot
Street bridge over the second level canal. The replacing of the
Cabot Street bridge has been under consideration for number
of years and attention has been called to its condition in previous
annual reports of the City Engineer. The Valley Bridge on
Bridge Street was designed and built by my predecessor.

 The condition of the steel work in other bridges throughout the City is such that repairs, scraping and painting can no
longer be delayed. |
DWIGHT STREET FOOT BRIDGE.

Plans and specifications were prepared during the year
for the construction of foot bridge over the tracks of the
Boston and Maine Railroad to replace the iron footbridge
constructed in  considered unsafe by the Engineers of the
Public Service Commission and the Boston and Maine Railroad.

The center line of the site selected is feet south of the
old bridge and instead of single span across the railroad,
permission was obtained from the railroad engineers to place
piers at convenient points intermediate so as to shorten the
spans and in this way give more substantial and permanent
structure. The bridge is approached by covered stairway
from Main Street, the object being to protect the stairs from
ice and snow. ‘The main spans are composed of steel girders
  feet inches in depth with  floor beams attached to the
girders. The floor is of concrete, reinforced with steel rods.
A wearing surface of Mason Safety treads with spaces of con- .
crete between covers the whole length of the bridge. All steel
work is covered with concrete to protect it from the gases of

—
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER. OT

the locomotives that pass underneath. The covered girders
, form the side rails of the bridge. The whole bridge has an
s appropriate lighting system, conduits being concealed in the
concret  covering. Scuppers are placed in each bay throughout
fo the length of the bridge so as to reduce the water fall on the

railroad property to minimum at any one place.
: Proposals were asked for the construction of the bridge in
: the early part of the summer and although fifteen sets of plans
and specifications were taken from the office no bids were re‘ ceived on the date of the opening. The Board of Public Works
re-advertised and bids were received from four contractors. Louis
J. Sieling, of New York and Red Bank, N. J. being the lowest

bidder was awarded the contract.
: New planking was laid on the second J.evel Canal Bridge
| on Sargeant Street, First Level Canal Bridge on Cabot Street

and the South Hadley Falls Bridge.

SPRINGFIELD BRIDGE.

Springfield’s bridge problem has to greater or less degree |
involved our own municipality. Advocates of the Court Square
and Bridge Street sites for location of the bridge held such
Opposite views that compromise was impossible and accordingly
che whole matter was referred to the Scate Legislature. As
no organized opposition developed the Bridge Bill passed
through the House and Senate. At the hearing before the
Bridge Commission on assessment of costs City Solicitor O’Neil
appeared for Holyoke in opposition to the methods of assessment advocated by Springfield’s representatives.

A plan prepared by the City Engineer showing various
routes and distances was used.

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.

TABLF, SHOWING HISTORY AND CONSTRUCTION
ACCOUNT OF THE BRIDGES OF THE CITY.
—a aoaunanannaueo aeaeaeaeaoaaqaooae aa  ee
Name of Bridge Location Built by Year Kind Cost

J ws |
Appleton St......../Over Ist Level Canal Holyoke Water Power c..| Metal Not Known
Appleton St... .... Over  nd Level Canal Fown of Eels oke .. 
e- face: |
Appleton St.........) “. City of Holyoke. .........)  
Bridge St........ ..) Holvoke Water Power Co. Wood Not Knowa
Replaced by |
Bridge St........... Cite of Holyoke. oo... Composite  
Cabot St........  ... Over Ist Level Canal Holsoke Water Power Co.’ ISS] “* Not Known
Cabot St............ Over  nd Level Canal Hol-oke Water Power Co. Wood “
| *Replaced by
Cabot St............, City of Holyoke. wee. Metal
Cabot St.... ...... Over  rd Level Canal Holvoke Water Power Co. ISS  Wood .
| \Replaced by Masonry
Cabot St.... .......)  City of Holyoke. .........| Arch  
Dwight St........ ...Over Ist Level Canal Holvoke Water Power Co.  Metal Not Known
i|Replaced by
Dwight St......... “co“ City of Holvoke. oo... .. ..'  
Dwight St.......... Over  nd Level Canal Hol joke Water Power Co., Wood Not Known
eplaced by
Dwight St..........] City of Holvoke.......  T&  Metal  
Jackson St... .. ...] Holvoke Water Power Cc. ood Not Known
/Replaced by |
Jackson St..........[ as City of Holyoke. ..........  
yman St....... ..., Over Ist Level Canal Holvoke Water Power Co. “s Not Known
| Replaced by |
Lyman St......... “i Citv of Holvoke.........  Metal  
Lyman St....... |... Over  nd Level Canal Hol-oke Water Power Co. Wood Not Known
Replaced by  |
Lyman St........., “oo "Town of Holvoke......... Meral  
Main St............'\Over  rd Level Canal Holeoke Water Power Cc., Wood Not Known
. Rerlaced bv |
MainSt............) Town of Holyoke ...... .,  
. Replaced by |
MainSt............) Town of Holyoke... ...) Metal |
. Replaced by ;
MainSt.... .... .. City of Holyoke. .........'  
| Mfasonry
. Sargeant St... ..... Over Ist Level Canal Holvoke, Water Power an Arches Not Known
enlaced by
Sargeant St... .....) [Holyoke Water Power Co., Wood “
! Metal and
Replaced by Reinforced .
Sargeant St.........)  City of Holvoke.......... Concrete  
Sargeant St......... Over  nd Level Canal Holyoke Water Power Co. Metal Not Known
Dwizht St. Foot Over B. M. R. R.
Bridge............| Tracks... ....... (City of Holyoke Sey  
COUNTY BRIDGES.
| |
Joint Board Hampden |
Holyoke and Scuth Over Connecticut and Hampshire County |
Had. Falls Bridge.., River..............'Commissioners.........|  Wood  '- 
‘Replaced by Joint Board |
Helyoke and Scuth Over Connecticut ‘Hampden and Hampshire |
Had. Falls Bridge.., River.............. County Commissioners. Metal  
Holyoke and Willi-| Over Connecticut Hampden County |
mansett Bridge... River. ............. Commissioners. ........ ‘*  
* Replaced by Old Bridge from Dwight St., Cost Included in New Bridge on Dwight St.
NOTE—Total construction unt of bridges to date, .

ee ||
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
LIST OF BRIDGES UNDER CARE OF CITY.
me
. o
at
 Ss [see is S. |s 
. aw Cia
Location van cUZ —o
s  ze Fe  
-) pad w: 
i)
. cc
South Hacley Falls (county bridge) fe. ft.  
eight spans...  ...
Bridve st. at Valley Mills......... ft. ft.  
Ly man St., over Ist level canal. ... fe. ft.  
Ly man st. over  nd level canal. ... ft. Tf.  
Dwight st. over Ist level canal (brick
read and concrete walk)........ fe. ft.  
Dwight st. over  nd level canal
(brick road and concrete walk)... fr. ft.  
Apyleton st. over Ist level canal .. ft. ft.  
Aprleton st. over  nd level canal...  tO ft.  fr.  
Cabot st. over Ist level canal...... ft.  .t ft.  
Cabot st. over  nd level canal. ....  ft. ft.  
Cabot st. over  rd level canal !
(granite road and concrete walk)... ft.  ,C  ft.  
Sargeant st. over Ist level canal... ft.  ft. 
Sargeant st. over  nd level canal.  CO  ft. ft.  
Jackson st. over  nd level canal... GO ft.  ft. in,  
Main at. over  rd level canal... ..,  CO ft   ft. |)  
Willimansett (county bridge), three
BPANE.   ft.  it  
WiWimansett Bridge (approach).... {t. ft.  
Foot bridge over B. M. R. R.
tracks at Dwight st............ ...  ... ft.  
a Se
|
Total...  ...     
SEWERS.

Several small extensions have been made to the sewer
system in various parts of the city to accommodate new buildings. This year the problem of accommodating the newly
developed territory west of Northampton Street and north of
Cherry Street presents itself. Surveys have been begun to determine the proper method of draining this territory. |

Throughout the year frequent inquiries have been made
relating to the sewerage of Holyoke. The following brief scription will be of interest to the public:—

HOLYOKE SEWER SYSTEM.

The Holyoke sewer system discharges by gravity into the

Connecticut River. The several outlets from West Springfield
 line on the South to Highland Park on the North, varying from

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.

 to  diameter, are designed to accommodate the areas

drained and are as follows :—
Near West Springfield Line........................ "
Brightside...  DAM
Ferry Street...     DAP
Jones’ Outlet.....    LQ"
Riverside Park. ... .. ..  TO"
Berkshire Street.............. ... ’
Jackson Street..... ..      "
Third level overflow. ...........   "
Appleton Street...  ...    es  "
Mosher Street........       "
Island...      LO"
Jones Pond...  ... AQ"
Pine Street (storm water).................. ....... "

These sewers gradually diminish in size as they branch
from the main trunk in manner similar to the branching of a
tree. ‘They are built on what is known as the combined svstem, that  s, for carrying storm water as well as domestic
waste. There are, however, few storm water sewers which
relieve congested districts in times of heavy rainstorms, as
weil as re'ief out:ets into natural water channels. This latter |
method has been adopted on account of the prohibitive cost
of building the separate large conduits which would be necessary
to carry the runoff in excessive rainstorms. Such relief outlets
are so constructed that no water is discharged into the natural
water course until the sewers are thoroughly flushed.

At various times bills have been presented to the State
Legislature to bring about treatment of the sewage effluent
from the different cities to prevent contamination of the Connecticut River, but it has been found on investigation that the
actual contamination has been so slight that it can be ignored.

The average minimum flow of the Connecticut River is
about gallons, two and one-half billions of gallons in twenty-four hours ai Holyoke and the sewage effluent
needing treatment not more than part of the minimum

REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
river flow, that is, allowing twenty gallons per capita. It can
therefore, be seen that the contamination of the river is negligible factor even if condition did not obtain in our city
which makes us doubly secure.

One of the methods of treatment which is extensively
adopted both in this country and in European cities is the process of chemical precipitation by which coagulant is mixed
with the sewage and the mixture let into settling basins. Any
matter held in suspension precipitates to the bottom of the
settling basin, leaving clear fluid on the surface. This fluid
is then run off and aerated by one of the ordinary aerating
methods. The City of Worcester treats sewage in this manner
before discharging into the Blackstone River. |

Different chemicals are used according to the method
adopted, the lime process being used in Worcester. About
one barrel of lime with smaller quantities of other chemicals
is required for population of so that for Holyoke the
equivalent of six barrels of lime per day is all that is necessary
to accomplish the desired results.

The paper mills of Holyoke produce over tons of paper
daily and it is estimated that tons of lime and tons of
soda ash are consumed in this industry alone every twenty-four
hours. considerable quantity is also used in our cotton and
thread industries.

Experiment has proven that this manufacturing waste
makes splendid coagulent for ordinary sewage. Owing to
the sewer outlets alternating with the tail races of the paper
mills, as if by design, perfect process of admixture of the
bleach waste and the sewage takes place automatically and the
precipitate is deposited in the bed of the river whence it is removed by freshets to the great cleanser and repository the

Atlantic Ocean.

In the eventofthe enactment of legislation making it obligatory on cities and towns to treat the effluent from sewerage
systems before being discharged into the Connecticut River,


  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
the City of Holyoke might well claim exemption from any such
legislation so long as her present industries are maintained.
The number of dwellings not connected with the system
in Holyoke is very small and these are mostly in remote farming
sections.
Modern methods of plumbing insure thorough ventilation
by requiring that the main soil pipe shall be carried at least
two feet above the roof so that it is practically impossible for
any foul air to collect in the street main or to force its way
through fixtures into the house.
;
:

od 
heoo |
“ te Led be rey |
j Ax AA Yy ar Wae- os
: 
elm  B@agc By  ®
 
s [fs  ae sy EEE boy  rN  p) Fp) ce ce
wn me) -£O ZZ §
. doa Ss to COO Oo ce se os os
id nSee) en
 WW gt wm sxhes Nd oO
  lao oa eo
& lta oso aR om  
Ss [gt ae  eNE Ah  fF Sk
O.  Om ON wn  
se eo  -—  and an)
(   OO
ris) re
oe ham  
fond  aA
 an .
[  ;
 ooennroxw#erk rn n
tO.s oOo oan b&
Ae. De ae —
i yg 
a  ms Dg im il: oo.
s tog: Loo i:
ri om ——  :
* ae co  @my :
  es coe  Ex Eau uw US
) an  ss SHAInk Uv *Y
Ww Ww Cc fo) —) Ge ec
OO es  cs &
  Se   naan nn Wn
| eree-g SSP SEES GEE
  aSB& BR Sra
Q ra} 'N NN
wa ce Tr ae
 lew —
e Nn oO N
xnY vt oN ON
e pay  AQ +t
J De sae ankceat Bara om 
i  rt)  
 
‘c o's oe eo
Q eS  oe
   :
et
.on  “Ss “OO aor eer :
 Some shee.
(x) Set ie jes: aes SSS EY ZtSSS B:
 Bo  (Basha SSC cETS Base wie Pe Boss:
e we  :
a  Be Seo SESS: CSF  mM i:  
(x) we: Ze  Seeacls  SOs Ss ;
Ow O# od Oo;n SE FSs ae) Zee me  out .
W) Se Be BU GO  .EWM SS te. tax togys zo
fo] re) erste, dg sucea Pad .o: oS rs
Snesoat.: “ge feos SEE TO BRE wle ‘me rs
fy ORE earns: LENE te Tet Oe KOra SG (SQ Se
mA Hh owHEVU ow eI ie eel
 NU Nu,  ‘BOS Renews V—SeSaire Z
enue ote Zak Osh an AS EQS tees et
c.£ ale woMn Load  ove NY -& ro) 
Eon ge Oe *V Cue co aad had So s
- govocs He Ee Sos Eeamo*o weet Set A,
a. ec [|  Ors ss ra  bie cae oes Cc oc:  o
— ac& nZac ace lS sacs OB,atalvcina on
-] Zghvo  itsnctes “Ost EATS  Ss  
Wc: Ss (Bose acde: SEA Ce SR LA E
Se” S: esnecva:. LSS 
aoa ls La soe ie aici :
.me .
  Zvse ogc Eta E- mo  S: Fb:
Bet Gags FeBesea ib Bie ck  : BF.
o ie Oa”toa eo we .
ok On Ow “wn ,;EM SO .& AT ae) (a)  Og om
ae  Zoe do Tals); Nem ae o: .woa CO;
 See! Gs oe ES or» :s Zon
ae o'tae Yon ‘EfMe Smeg S$ Oo: a
 Behe Hee bee" cs SeegO AMO: Zee Be
mh letese Tate See  Sy oa
ore US wweZz vo: yn om eet oe  
c.  oats) ba .& Devwe rT)  @& ond
GOw Gq Seoeetsosfe oy Oo CSE  uC)
saw ce eve [e) cme ek ok Cc  
ase On On  ve&Sc c£Y vo are
Sa oS  ete yor aug Cesges cc? Cae om
 si qc an Bm
ray CSS eens SF ase  
o:  $f  eceg We ea en
y eo  Sig ve 
o sz -: &
ae ld Gt Zuy Bs  csc —E Oo'f  Pm OF z
a (ome) wm fe) fo) Ee UO 
a  ws io) Res be re) olUSz  -€ toe e
oon ye ,. re feo ow Pe rw fe) fo) fe)
— (wre) an ead eon be be  tne
 Cw ow (x  Zeon Son fe we Sone
om atow @OoOo ®@ coe ws be}
 .
UN Oise Oo fm Ke
am NUN NN NN Show .
‘oo  se] |
‘ os  ne
;  wn”  :
& r]  DU  QS oo: hlUutlUw GD  
Giles Fao oy  gts:
Zz, -— n”  wow &@  ne 
O  &B we os oo:
£  oO Vv  OF 
es  EU au”
  S& eo  Lo MM cow &
Poff) Oo UO Ag oes &§ ro}  Fe 
WwW OO LZ  SUA.
, les  OT ZO ws  oa o
oO ton EE ont on IE on EE on BE on)  Oo O&O  ro)
 Ee 

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER. |
| PAVEMENTS.
Concrete pavement has proven itself to be well adapted
to travel in certain districts. With modern conveyances no
pavement is able to stand up without concrete base. The
cost of using concrete alone is considerably less chan when
covering is used. If, however, the condition should warrant
it in the future the pavement of itself is adapted tobe used as
a base for surfacing material.
Bh Street from Northampton Street to Sargeant, Pine
Street from Sargeant to Hampshire Street, North Pleasant
Street from the southerly side of the Dingle to the Hastings’
land and the intersection of Northampton and Dwight Street
were paved with concrete. [ly Street from Summer to Bowers |
and Lyman Street from High to Maple were paved with asphalt |
block. Newton Street from Suffolk Street to the new street |
in the rear of the City Hall and the new street from High Street |
to Railroad Street were paved with vitrified brick, grouted with
cement and laid on concrete base with sand cushion. Asphalt
expansion joints were used along the curb.
Lines, grades and measurements were given for all street
work throughout the year.

: a
  
z [.
 ae) ve) ae) wo "
— ce cw cm on Guaw}  lagt
iv om. -™ cms
nN  a\|o Je) wn lee [oe lor ZH] eR os *
rs ns ine   ee
GO om
{ ZS |
| ae |
pot ft Bt
c zc
at ane
i
fa 
mt
vo.
|  #
&
a
:!
——— nn
  oF or os
Bo XQ “t  nN
zofe  lq [a ta  
Fd ne S
wW &,  [nN So
a a
. |
‘  t
vo) ar. re Ne) x
* zi ees
|  f
ot
Z |e S
 |e  |e 
i  Pic
  
—] be “a Z. oz
| a.on mi am
om be fo) ao fa  ff gle le  le le |e
; i
Misi. jt [e fe ls |e [st t
mn “an —e ee
a nN nN ™N nN nN
Y Oye tae Ja Je Ja fa os
(a) y
  e
x Ss il le  |S [s ef ww a!
 fe) Yj vey
Sn TCT CO OCs OU (OO
| aed  s
a  .
  ro) Cc o
  lodgle if iF ir Ie tt
mS} feg(s |#  |Z lz lz z| gig
TJ j
Z \zsle |e |F le s)  )
PV Em ow La lee leeee
 Fe a
in| |
lad  ta) ee
gy |--.S —-- ;
 rN
A. spx-bs Is -o) SC:
ueay lan [|S nl mi  
.  ve)  
ee —). an ae  Lo al e
a  “i a
 famst|  |B )e #|  Ee
,  
ion paul ne Sees  
MW apeuy pots  
— oped  ae te Sa oe  et BS as S
—l xP WN lo Co let mi NI RT
a det |: .o  
n re "fae PPR BT:  
Py sv sel: )
 rH om ronvy
:  |&  |E |e) la ze
N id he  [o}
fo} Os
}  nn an eal oale —
i vy ao  fa
  any  re) ac
:  ie} We oe tim  eons)
od i] boa ow pare Lod 
S oD  
Zz.  IN in “Y
en oe (for YP OA
a 
a rv) Fe nN Sotto}
E  |a |e pe) os oO 
| jan} eoleo|  i
-  aes Gv
a ae os
} on- om ;
a lm |e Jo [Oo le IAit
o |: Do dt |
. Lad oO Cd .
 .
  |:  |:
 |Y  le .
eu bh  rs) oe y
Ps oO te
-  p)  te i] ry)
 pw fe) a
 Quy Au ye
by  &
[oe  Zz Zz a. .

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
NEW STREETS.

A plan was prepared for the development of street in the
rear of City Hall. Part of the lawn was taken for the purpose
and the old curbing reset on the new north line of the street.
Brick pavement, granite curbing and cement sidewalks were
laid. The removal of the old buildings has been much needed
improvement. The new street provides relief from congestion
on High Street in front of the City Hall for travel going east- |
erly on Dwight Street.

A plan was prepared for the proposed development and
widening at the corner of Northampton and Dwight Streets
and this was adopted during the year. The work is now almost complete.

A plan was prepared for the widening of Northampton
Street from Lincoln to Morgan Street. This project will probably be carried to completion during the coming year.

Maps of the following streets were prepared:--Hillside
Avenue, Larkin Avenue, Clinton Avenue, Newton Place,
Parker Street, Appleton Street between Winter and Water
Streets, Water Street from Appleton Street southerly to the
Boston and Maine Railroad.

The following maps were also prepared:—

FOR CITY MESSENGER:—Ward and precinct map.

FOR BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS :— Map of accepted
streets, map of land for sewer purposes near Highland Park,
plan of Vershon and Humphrey properties on the Springfield
Road, maps showing location of properties abutting sidewalks
and curbing laid during the year.

FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT:—Maps for criminal
cases.

FOR CITY SOLICITOR:—Maps of accident cases and
several descriptions of land.

BOARD OF HEALTH:—Maps of the City were prepared for use of the Board.

—s
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  

FIRE DEPARTMENT:—Map showing the still alarm
districts and boxes.

FOR BOARD OF ASSESSORS:—Set of maps of convenient size and at reduced scale are being prepared to supplement the large wall maps of the farm lands west of Northampton Street.

HIGH STREET EXTENSION.

The proiected High Street extension has occupied much
time of this department in preparing plans and estimates of
the various possible routes for the Planning Board.

In October cuts showing the routes were published in the
daily papers so that the project might receive proper publicity
and thus invite discussion.

Nothing having been heard, however, from advocates or
opponents it would seem that there is no public demand for
the project at the present time.

STREET NUMBERS.

Numbers were assigned to various residences and apartments built during the year.

PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.

In the addition built in to the Elm Street School one
room was left unfinished. Specifications were prepared for the
finishing of this room during the past year.

Plans and specifications were prepared for the building of a
shelter at the Tuberculosis Hospital.

Also plans and specificacions were prepared fort he Public
Comfort Station in the basement of the City Hall. Sullivan
and Carmody had the contract for plumbing, W. J. Kelly
and Company, of Springfield, had the contract for tiling, glass
partitions, tcrrazzo floors and mirrors, etc., R. A. Ruppert was
given the contract for the copper covered entrance, G. Haarmann and Company had the contract for the metal stairs.

These stations have proven great convenience to the travelling public and are considered as second to none in the country.

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
GRADES ESTABLISHED  .
Street At Center of Elevation
Amherst Wellesley Road  
A point feet east of the center line of Wellesley Road  
Pleasant Street  
Cleveland Harvard  
| point feet south of cen- |
ter line of Harvard  
. point ft. south of center |
line of Harvard  
A point ft. south of center |
. line of Harvard  
Yale Street |
Clinton Ave. Dwight Street south side |
  feet south of center of
| Dwight Street 
Suffolk Street  
Dartmouth Pleasant Street 
A point feet west of Pleas- |
ant  
A point feet west of Pleas- |
ant  
Wellesley Road  
Harvard Pleasant  
A point feet W. of the cen- |
ter line of Pleasart  
Wellesley Road North  
Wellesley Road South  

ay
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
GRADES ESTABLISHED  .—Continued. ;
Street At Center of Elevation
Hillside Ave. Westfield Road  
King Street 
Coit Street  
Cherry Street }
|
Larkin Ave. Willow Street  
, View Street  
| Glen Street  
Princeton Wellesley Road  
| pt. ft. E. of C. of Wel- |
lesley Road  
Pleasant Street  
StanfordSt. Wellesley Road  
Pleasant Street 
Wellesley Rd. Dartmouth  
. Pt. ft. N. of Dartmouth  
Pt. ft .N. of Dartmouth  
| Harvard  .
Wellesley Rd. |! Harvard  
| Amherst  
| Stanford ,.  
A point ft. north of center oo
 line of Harvard :
 Princeton Street  
Yale Pleasant  
. Cleveland  
A point feet E. of Pleasant  
Park Slope 

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
, GRADES ESTABLISHED  .—Continued.
Street At Center of Elevation
New Street in High Street East line 
rear of City Newton Place  
Hall. Railroad Street West line 
CURBING.
Length in Cost per lineal Average cost
KIND foot delivered laid per lineal
Feet to City foot
 -in. first-class granite $.  -in. second-class granite my) |{$ |
| Granite Circles   !
  Cement curbing......... !
SIDEWALKS. |
Length !
nee KIND Square Yards Total ot
  Portland cement........:  ex! clusive of
: excavation.

REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER. :
LIST OF STREETS ACCEPTED IN  .

The following named streets have been accepted by the
City of Holyoke during the year  .

Name of Street From To Length Width
City Hall Court ‘High Railroad ft.  "
Larkin Avenue [Willow Glen ft. ft.
Clinton Avenue |Dwight Suffolk ft. ft.
Yale Street Park Slope {Pleasant ft.  ft.
Dartmouth Wellesley Rd. |Pleasant ft.  ft.
Wellesley Rd. Dartmouth Princeton; ft.  fc.
Cleveland Street jYale Harvard ft.  ft.
Harvard Wellesley Rd. Pleasant ft.  ft.
Princeton Wellesley Rd. ‘Pleasant ft.  ft.
Stanford Wellesley Rd. Pleman ft.  ft.
Amherst Wellesley Rd. |Pleasant ft.  ft.
Hillside Ave. ‘Westfield Rd. Cherry  ft.  ft.

YOUNG vs. CITY OF HOLYOKE.

After long and exhaustive trial before master, Judge
Heady, whose report was confirmed by Judge Pierce of the
Superior Court and finally on appeal again confirmed by the
full bench of the Supreme Court, the City’s case has been sustained. At the time that Contractor Young abandoned his contract on the White Reservoir dam the City held back about
$  under the  clause. This amount was due Young
and would have been paid had he completed his contract.
Daniel O’Connell’s Sons finished the dam at increased unit |
prices and the difference was deducted by the court from the
amount due Young. Therefore the dam was actually completed at the unit prices of Young’s contract. The difference .
amounted to about .

The decision forms precedent by which contractors in
future dealings with municipalities of the Commonwealth will

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
be deterred from abandoning contracts on flimsy pretexts or
poor advice.
The City Engineer and his assistant Mr. F. J. Millane were
the principal witnesses for the City.
BUILDING INSPECTION STATISTICS.
Appropriation... ....... .. ee   ees 
, EXPENDITURES.
Salary...ee    ees 
Office supplies, printing, carfare.................  
Balance unexpended.................- -+.-  
$ 
| Permits Issued.
Additions and alterations on wooden buildings............. 
Additions on brick buildings. ................ ++- 
Apartment blocks .........         
Business buildings. ..........         ell
Barns and garages... ..  ... t   |
Factories...  ...    tee   G
Residences .........  
Two tenement dwellings...............-.. +-  |
Storage houses ...........  ...    tere  |
Public buildings. .......  ...         SB
Number of permits issued.........................  
Number of tenements................    ees  
COST OF ABOVE.
No. of Permits Cost
Wooden buildings............ 
Alterations in wooden bldgs.. 
, 
; Brick buildings.............. 
Alterations in brick bldgs...  
Fireproof buildings...........  
Total..................  

——
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.  
ELECTRIC WIRING.
Receipts.
By appropriation............................+. 
Expenditures.
Salary...      ees... .. 
Office supplies, printing, carfare.................  
Balance unexpended........... .. ........ ....  
$ 
INSPECTION DATA.
Number of specifications filed during the year.........  
Number of inspections, new installations..............  
Number of inspections, old installations..............  
STATISTICS.
The following is table of statistics of the City of Holyoke
compiled and brought up to date: 
Population May U.S. Census........  
Population May Water Works census  
Number of voters...................... 
Number of polls................... .. ..  
Public school enrollment, day...............  
Public school enrollment, night..............  
Vocational School enrollment, day...........  
Parochial school enrollment.................  
Area of City........... ...... .. ........ sq. mi.
Greatest extent, east and west............... miles
Greatest extent, north and south............ miles ,
Area of school property..................... sq. ft. |
Area of City Parks...........,........ ..... acres
Area of City Hall and City Yard Lots........ acres
Area of contagious hospital land............. acres |
Area of city farm, Loomis and Allen lots, gravel bank on Springfield Road............... acres
Area of Fire Department property............ sq.ft.
Area of Municipal Lighting property......... sq. ft.

Oe...  

  REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
County Roads...... ... ... ... miles
State highway........  miles
Streets accepted.... sw, miles
Streets unaccepted...... ..  ... oo. e. miles
Sheet asphalt pavement..... oes miles
Asphalt block pavement. .... .... ....... miles
Vitrified brick pavement............ ...... miles
Granite block pavement.................... miles
Hassam pavement............  ... ..  miles
Bitulithic pavement...................... ..  miles
Wood block pavement......................  miles
Macadam pavement..................... miles
Sidewalks and crossings........... ........ miles
Cement concrete pavements................ miles
Water mains,  in. and upwards in diam...... miles
Gas mains.....    miles
Sewers...... en miles
River front.............. eemiles
Steam railroad locations.... .....  ........ miles
Electric railroad locations................... miles
Electric light and power circuits (municipal).. miles
Electric arc street lights....................  
Electric incandescent street lights............  
Railroad stations...................- 
Churches. ........    

School houses...................     
Commercial schools........................  
Number of tenements, including residences...  
Police station... ...... wee  .  
Bath houses.......... ...... Be  
Fire engine houses... .. .. .. is...  
Fire alarm boxes... ............. ..... ...  
Hook and ladder trucks....... ... ........  
Fire hydrants, public..................  
Post offices and sub-stations.... ...........  
Area assessed... )...ee acres

a
REPORT OF THE CITY ENGINEER. ms Valuation personal................. .. 
{  mie Valuation, real estate......................  
ilo Tax rate per ............ ........... 
i In conclusion, wish to thank His Honor, the Mayor,
  the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Public Works and other
 City Officials, for their kind assistance in the discharge of my
  duties.
(ly nie
B\nals To my co-workers in the City Engineering Department
ian wish especially to express my thanks for their hearty co(  ic operation during the past year.
; Respectfully submitted,
oma
ete T. J. MacCARTHY
  mse City Engineer.
sb) mile
S  
mut
() mie
leaks
Q) mis
lt |
[ ue
}
 ,
io
) .
 
]
j
j
Jol
{
ip )
  .
acres
Mien .

FEE
; *
OF THE
To the Mayor, the Aldermen and the Citizens of Holyoke:
At meeting of the School Board held on January  this
complete report was presented, accepted and ordered printed. It is divided into nine parts, as follows:
PART I. Organization of School Board, district committees,
standing committees; time of meetings, various office
hours and school calendars.
PART II. Report of Committee on Annual Report from School
Board to City Government.
PART ITI. Report of Superintendent of Schools to School Board.
PART IV. Statistical Report of the Superintendent covering matters
of attendance, accounts, distribution of pupils, finance,
etc. ,
PART V. Special Report of Department of School Hygiene.
PART VI. Report of Attendance Officers.
PART VIL. Organization and Roster of the school system’ on January giving salaries paid, grades taught and
various attendance figures.
PART VIII. List of books adopted for use in day schools and in evening schools.
PART IX. Graduating classes for  .

‘ ®
PART I.
[ ee
The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for the year  
was as follows:
, At Large DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS
NT JOSEPH B. WEIS
Ward I—MICHAEL GRANFIELD
Ward  —VICTOR MESSIER
Ward  —AUGUST BAUSH
Ward  —PATRICK SHEA
Ward  —JOHN J. O'CONNOR
Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH
Ward  —EDWIN D. WELLS
is HON. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor
ees DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, Chairman
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
as The organization of the School Board of Holyoke for the year  
some is as follows:
At Large os B. WEIS January 
chet HENRY F. THORPE January 
. Ward  I—MICHAEL GRANFIELD January 
Ward  —VICTOR MESSIER January 
rd Ward  —AUGUST BAUSH January 
Ward  —PATRICK SHEA January 
yes Ward  —JOHN J. O'CONNOR January 
am Ward  —DENNIS F. LYNCH January 
Ward  —REV. FRANKLIN KNIGHT January 
HON. JOHN J. WHITE, Mayor
JOSEPH B. WEIS, Chairman
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Superintendent.
The District Committees for are as follows:
a HIGH SCHOOL: |
. MESSRS. KNIGHT, BAUSH, GRANFIELD.
FIRST DISTRICT: |
Ds MESSRS. KNIGHT, O’CONNOR, SHEA. |

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. .
SECOND DISTRICT:
MESSRS. THORPE, BAUSH, LYNCH.
THIRD DISTRICT:
MESSRS. GRANFIELD, WEIS, MESSIER.
The Standing Committees for are as follows:
RULES, TEXT BOOKS AND COURSES OF STUDY:
MESSRS. MESSIER, BAUSH, KNIGHT.
SALARIES AND FINANCE: "
. MESSRS. LYNCH, O'CONNOR, WEIS.
PRINTING AND SUPPLIES:
MESSRS. O’CONNOR, LYNCH, THORPE.
SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS:
MESSRS. BAUSH, LYNCH, WEIS. .
EVENING SCHOOLS AND ATTENDANCE:
MESSRS. SHEA, MESSIER, GRANFIELD.
BUILDINGS, JANITORS AND SOCIAL CENTERS:
MESSRS. O'CONNOR, SHEA, THORPE.
The organization for the Board of Trustees for Vocational Education for is as follows:
Term Expires
MRS. CHARLES A. CHASE, January  .
JOSEPH B. WEIS, January 
DENNIS F. LYNCH, January 
AUGUST BAUSH, January 
WILLS M. FLEMING, January JOHN P. BLEASIUS, January  :
REV. FRANKLIN KNIGHT, January 
DR. JOSEPH H. POTTS, January 
JOHN J. O'CONNOR, January 
WILLS M. FLEMING, Chairman
FRANCIS McSHERRY, Secretary.
The sub-committees of this Board for are as follows:
RULES, SALARIES AND FINANCE:
MESSRS. WEIS, LYNCH, KNIGHT. }
SUPPLIES:
MESSRS. POTTS, O’CONNOR, BAUSH.
TEACHERS, COURSES OF STUDY AND TEXT BOOKS:
MESSRS. BLEASIUS, FLEMING, MRS. CHASE.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
The Advisory Committees to the Board are as follows:
METAL TRADES:
WILLIS D. BALLARD, Pearl.
FREDERICK W. KOEGEL, Brown Avenue.
ROBERT E. NEWCOMB, Chestnut.
ARTHUR H. BURGESS, Walnut.
JOHN P. BLEASIUS, Hitchcock.

BUILDING TRADES:

JOSEPH F. RANGER, Nonotuck.
ISRAEL DUCHARME, Papineau.
WM. B. O’NEIL, Congress Avenue.
JACOB KREUTER, High.

WM. J. HOWES, Harvard.

PRINTING: ;
MICHAEL J. DOYLE, Elm. ,
ANDREW J. HUNTER, School.

JOSEPH LUSSIER, Nonotuck.
CHARLES T. FAHEY, Pearl.
JACQUES WISLEY, Hitchcock.
PAPER-MAKING:
SIDNEY E. WHITING, Oak.
WM. A. O. WEBER, Appleton.
RAYMOND S. HATCH,  Princeton.
WM. B. CLEMENTS, Magnolia Avenue.
DAVID F. SULLIVAN, Maple.

ELECTRICAL WORK:

GEORGE E. JOHNSON, Allyn. .
ARTHUR J. NEWELL, Washington Avenue.
GEORGE M. PRENTICE, Jr., Essex.

TEXTILE WORK:

WALTER H. ARMSTRONG, Fairfield Avenue.
EUGENE R. ALDERMAN, Pearl.
WILLIAM H. HUBBARD, Elm.
URBAN FLEMING, Lyman.
WILLIAM MAUER, Bh.

HOME MAKING:

MRS. JOHN J. FINN, Linden.

MRS. ALMA SCHIRCH, Walnut.
MISS NELLIE BOLAND, Elm.

DR. J. JOSEPH CARROLL, Chestnut.
DR. FRED H. ALLEN, Dwight.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
| SCHOOL BOARD.
A regular public meeting is held on the first Monday evening of every
month at o’clock.
This is the only public meeting held during the month.
The annual meeting for organization is held on the first Tuesday
"evening in January at o’clock.
A meeting of all sub-committees is held on the last Monday evening
of every month at o'clock.
A meeting of the sub-committee on supplies is held on or about the
 th of every month at o’clock in the evening.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
A regular meeting is held on the first Tuesday evening of every month
-at o’clock.
SUPERINTENDENT.
In office on school days from a. m. to m., and from to  
p. m., except on Fridays.
In office on Saturday mornings and Tuesday evenings by appointment.
SECRETARY TO SUPERINTENDENT.
The office hours are a. m. to a. m., and p. m. to p. m.
on all school days. On Saturdays and during vacations, a. m. to m.
OFFICE. |
The office is open from a. m. to p. m. on all school days, and from |
  a. m. to m. on Saturdays and during the summer vacation. During
other vacations and school holidays the hours are from a. m. to m., !
and p. m. to  p.m. |
The office is closed on all legal holidays.
ATTENDANCE OFFICERS.
The attendance officers are in the office on all school days from p. m.
to p. m. and on Monday and Wednesday evenings, except during vacations, from to  .
The hours on Saturdays and during the summer vacation are from
  a.m. to m. During other vacations and school holidays the hours
are from a. m. to m. and p. m. to p. m.
MINOR’S CERTIFICATES.
The hours for issuing employment and educational certificates to |
minors are from a. m. tol p. m. on all school days; from to on Monday
and Wednesday evenings except during vacations; from a. m. to m.
on Saturdays and during the summer vacation; and from a. m. to m.,
and from p. m. to  m. during other vacations and school holidays.

ss
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
SCHOOL PHYSICIANS.
In office, for signing of employment cards, every school day from  
a. m. to a. m. and a. m. to m.; p. m. to p. m. and
  p. m. to p.m. Saturdays and vacations, a. m. to  m.
SCHOOLHOUSE AGENT.
The school-house agent is in the office from a. m. to a. m.,
and from p. m. to p. m. on all school days.
The hours on Saturdays and during all vacations are from a. m.
to m.
The school Calendar for is as follows:
DAY SCHOOL TERMS.
WINTER TERM began January 
. ends March 
SPRING AND SUMMER TERM begins April 
ends June 
FALL TERM begins September, 
ends December 
WINTER TERM begins December 
ends February 
- EVENING SCHOOL TERMS.
HIGH SCHOOL.
TERM OF began October,  
ends March 
TERM OF begins September 
ends March 
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
TERM OF began October  |
‘ends March 
TERM OF begins October 
ends March 
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
TERM OF began October 
ends February 
TERM OF begins October 
ends February 
@

PART IL

REPORT OF THE SCHOOL BOARD
To His Honor, the Mayor, and the Citizens of Holyoke:

The School Board respectfully submits this annual report
for the year  It is pleasure to report that this department has finished another year during which the high standard
of our public schools has been maintained in all lines of educational effort.

REORGANIZATION.

For the past two years the School Board has been considering the question of reorganizing our present system of elementary schools. We find that our plan of having nine grades
and four years of High School as the basic arrangement of our
school system is somewhat out of step with modern school organization. It would seem that the time has come for us to
make change. The six-three-three plan of division, which
calls for elementary schools of six years, junior high school of
three years, senior high school of three years, is now almost
universally admitted to be ideal. In fact, it is the recognized
organization of school systems in the older countries of Europe
and in almost every country but our own. The Superintendent of Schools has recommended the adoption of this plan
as the one that best meets the needs of ourcity. Whatis really
hoped for in this change is such reorganization of the first
six grades as will introduce secondary school subjects and methods at the end of the seventh grade with the consequent saving
of one year in the time necessary for child to pass through
the entire school system.

PROPOSED NEW LAWRENCE SCHOOL.

The Board of Public Works selected the firm of George

P. B. Alderman Co. to prepare plans for the proposed Lawee, |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
rence School. For the past year or more the School Board
and the Superintendent of Schools have counseled with this
firm of architects in preparing suitable plans. The result,
we believe, is the designing of most advanced type of school
building. We feel that some definite action should be taken
by the present City Government to begin the erection of this
building. We will not agree to any policy of delay or inaction
in this matter because there is an immediate need of this building if the health and happiness of the children of the large central district is to be considered in the same way that these matters have been considered in the other districts of the city
by the erection of the Morgan School, the West Street School,
the Highland School and the Joseph Metcalf School.

HIGH SCHOOL ACCOMMODATIONS. ,

The proper authorities will soon have to consider the ,
question of High School accommodations. The present High
School was planned to care for maximum of pupils. The
present enrolment is over  Every room in the building is
in use. The present rate of increase warrants us in saying
that steps must soon be taken to provide for new building.
Would it not be good business to build the Lawrence School
before the High School problem becomes too pressing? Perhaps in plan of reorganization of the school system and in
the completion of the Lawrence School building, there is the
means of relieving the pressure of numbers at the High School.

REPAIRS IN SCHOOL BUILDINGS.

We recommend the redecorating of the High School auditorium. ‘This building is in almost constant use for lectures
and concerts. It is used by the public for such purposes
more than any other hall in the city and it should be made
more pleasing to the people who attend.

The roof of the Highland School is defective and, as result, the ceilings in the rooms and corridors are discolored and
cracked by the water which leaks through the roof. Something
should be done at once to remedy this condition, to refinish the
walls and ceilings, and to redecorate the auditorium.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

. Space formerly occupied by the sanitaries in the Hamilton
Street School could be very profitably used for school purposes.
We recommend that the Board of Public Works put these rooms
in good repair and attend to the painting of the kindergarten
room in this building.

Work should be begun at once on the installation of
shower baths in the Morgan School, and on the work of painting and redecorating the interior of this building throughout.

For details of educational work and improvements, as well
as statistics covering finance, attendance and other matters
relating to the organization, administration, supervision and
general running of this department, we refer you to the report
of the Superintendent of Schools.

Respectfully submitted,

| JOHN J. O?CONNOR,
. DENNIS F. LYNCH,
AUGUST H. BAUSH,
Committee on Annual Report.
{

—
PART IIL.
REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT
To the School Board of Holyoke:

Your Superintendent herewith submits report of the
Holyoke Public schools for the year  This is his fifth
annual report, and the fifty-third volume in the series of printed
reports issued by the School Board.

I. ATTENDANCE.

The figures showing enrolment, membership and attendance
of the various schools are tabulated in Part V. of this volume.
The attendance figures have been almost as unsatisfactory
during the past two years as they were satisfactory in the three
previous years. In there was an increase of one and
two-fifths per cent; in gain of two and one-fifth per cent;
and in  an increase of four per cent. In there was
practically no change. During the past year school attendance
has decreased about three and three-tenths percent. This decrease is abnormal, and can be traced directly to present industrial conditions, and to the recent epidemic of poliomyelitis.

Labor is now at premium and wages are high in practically all kinds of employment. Employers who would not

 engage persons between and years of age because it necessitated arranging hour per week working schedule
for such employees, are now glad to hire them. This is evidenced by the fact that the increase in individuals receiving
employment certificates in over was  Again,
the younger children have not entered school. The dread of
poliomyelitis and the delay in opening school have kept down
the attendance in the first grades and kindergartens. On De  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
cember  there were children in the kindergartens.
On December  there were but children in attendance.

The encouraging feature of this unsatisfactory school
attendance is that the attendance of those within the compulsory school age, to years, is as good as ever, while the falling off is in the group of younger children whose parents are
keeping them at home until the next school year, and in the
group from to years of age to whom the present wave of
industrial prosperity, with its high wages and bonuses, is a
temporary attraction.

II. DELAY IN OPENING SCHOOLS.

An epidemic of poliomyelitis in September and October |
  delayed the opening of schools, decreased attendance |
and set back school work for period of between four and six
weeks. Through teachers’ institute held in September;
through extra efforts and preparation made by the special
teachers; by eliminating the winter vacation and certain school
holidays; and probably by adding little to the school day,
it is expected that both work and time will be made up beforé
the end of June  .

Ili. FINANCES.

For the fiscal year which ended November this
department received the sum of The amount
expended was leaving, on December a
balance of cents. The estimates for call for the sum
of not including probable receipts of ‘This
is  more than the amount expended in  The
large increase in running expenses is due almost wholly to the
revised salary schedule in effect January which calls
for an average increase of seven and one-half per cent throughout the department, or nearly .

In Part V.of this volume are various financial tables showing receipts, expenditures, estimates and other figures for the
past fiscal year of the city.

oN
|
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
IV. SALARIES.
Between November  and January  the
members of the School Board, and your Superintendent, made
a complete investigation of school salaries paid in cities like
Holyoke. The salary of every person in the employ of this
department was considered. The revised schedule which went
into effect on January  is fair and careful adjustment
of salaries in view of the compensation that obtains in school
work and in the light of present living conditions. This schedule will be found on pages  and of this volume.
V. ACCOMODATIONS.
The public school buildings of Holyoke were pictured
in the report of  On the whole, the accommodations
for our school population are not unsatisfactory. The building policy of the School Department, for present and future
needs, centers about the construction of new Lawrence school,
a new building of mill-construction type for the Vocational
School, and complete modern school plant in West Holyoke.
The problem of congestion at the High School would be solved
for many years to come by establishing junior high school
organization in New Lawrence School building and in the
other grammar schools, and by providing new special quarters
for the Vocational School. The latter school now uses the
equivalent of eleven class rooms and two offices which within
a few years must be occupied by the High School. |
The problem of caretaking, repairs and alterations is al- Z
ways at hand. The most pressing matters have been mentioned in the report of the School Board. ‘The Schoolhouse
Agent, who divided his time equally between supervision of
janitor service, buildings ard property and the duties of attendance officer, was, in March  assigned full time to the
important work of supervising and instructing the janitors,
so that school buildings and property may be kept clean, safe
and in good repair. Your Superintendent feels that, while

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

the janitor service is better now than it has ever been, there

is still room for improvement. |
VI. NEW LAWRENCE SCHOOL.

The need of new building to take the place of the present
Lawrence Schocl has been discussed in previous reports, and
is not questioned by those familiar with conditions in the central school district. The playground on Maple street has been .
chosen as thesite, thus making it possible to use land now owned
by the city and at the same time, by sale, to convert the present
site of the Lawrence School into taxable property. The plans
for complete modern educational plant are ready, and the

, specifications can be prepared on short notice. The School
Board, having gone as far as it can in this matter, has asked
for conference with those city officials who can take the next !
steps, and in whose hands this project must now be placed.
VII. DAY SCHOOLS.

Under this heading are grouped the kindergartens, the
elementary schools (often termed the grades) and the High
School. It is gratifying to report real progress in these divisions of the educational system.

The aims, the principles, the value and the efficiency of
the local kindergartens have been described in previous reports.
The aims and principles of this great institution will always
be fundamentally the same. Its value and efficiency are improved each year in Holyoke by the kindergartners. One
of the most valuable accomplishments of the year on the part
of the kindergartners was the completion and unanimous recommendation of uniform plan of work or course of study
for the kindergartens of the city. This program, the result
of two lectures, many conferences and much study and investigation, has the indorsement of the Superintendent and awaits

| final approval by the School Board.

The elementary schools, or grades, are largely what the
teachers and courses of study make them. In each of these
essentials Holyoke is fortunate. The large majority of elementary school teachers have adequate professional and edu——

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
cational training. They do more than hear recitations, give
memory lessons or perform duties in perfunctory manner.
They have interest, energy, enthusiasm, definite plans of work,
power to carry out the plans, and knowledge of their responsibilities as teachers. The quality of class-room instruction  s
therefore very satisfactory. .The courses of study, with the
exception of history, nature study and music have been revised
and made uniform as to subjects, methods of teaching and time
allotment, in line with the best modern educational thought.
Your Superintendent, with the co-operation of the principals,
had planned to issue booklet, in March  outlining the
various subjects and courses in the nine grades. It seems best
to defer publishing this booklet until the question of junior
high school organization  settled.

Since school system is success or failure according to
the efficiency ot its elementary schools, it is pleasure to report
real progress in this most important branch of the department.

In his report read year ago your Superintendent expressed
the hope that the school year of at the Holyoke High
School would be marked by special progress and success. This
statement was made:

“With well organized departments and specially trained department
heads; with new courses of study, longer school day, better text books
and improved equipment; with class-room instruction increased both in
quality and quantity, the ‘passing mark’ raised, and requirements for a
diploma augmented; with splendidly appointed library, and well equipped model office for the Commercial department; with new Domestic
Science rooms and improved lunch service; with the exceptional opportunities for physical well-being and social activities offered in the new
gymnasium; with the uniformity, regularity and definiteness now applied
to studies and periods; with the policy of stern discipline, determined by
the School Board, rigidly enforced—with all these improvements and advantages, if the school year of does not prove to be the best in the

 history of the Holyoke High School to date, then it will be difficult to explain why it was not.”

The hope was realized. The High School reached a
high point in efficiency. The records, the facts and the evidence are at hand for those who question this statement. De  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
tails of the work and plans for the future are described in the
following excerpts from report of Principal Conant:

“A Survey Report to the State Board of Fducation, which was filled
out, sent to you and returned to the State Board, contains many facts that
otherwise would be included in this report. On the basis of this, the State
Board of Education will classify high.schools into Class ‘A’ and Class ‘B.’
This school has met all the requirements for the former class, and in due
time we will receive notice that we are in the first and higher classification.

The steps taken by the School Board in the matter of the establishment of junior high schools or dividing the grades into different groups
should work to the advantage of the High School. The important subject of vocational guidance should be seriously considered. believe it
would be advisable for certain qualified teachers of the High School to visit
the ninth grades this spring, spending enough time in each school to interview personally each pupil. Thus, in many cases, would be discovered
special needs, ambitions, limitations and talents of pupils who will make
up our first year class in September. Courses of study would be more
wisely chosen and better understanding of the individual should certain. ly be the result. The cause of some failures is due, no doubt, to wrong
start in the High School. This is also to be followed by closer study
of the pupils of the lower classes in the High School. plan of faculty
advisors is being worked out and will be in effect at the beginning of the
fall term.

Another subject of importance in which something should be done i
is the giving of credits for outside work. There are certain pupils who have
particular ability and capacity for certain subjects not ordinarily placed in
a high school curriculum. This is particularly true of the subject of
instrumental music. [I believe plan should be worked out so that
pupils who wish to make something of specialty of their music and who
possess the ability to make good progress should be encouraged in their
ambitions. would suggest that this apply to the pupils who are now in
the school beginning with the second half of this year and that we obtain
the names of pupils who might be interested in this plan, the amount of
time spent in practice and lessons, the number of vears already spent upon
this subject and the approval of the parent and the teacher to the facts
submitted. At the end of certain definite time these pupils should be
required to give demonstration of their progress as shown by their
technique, their ability to read music at sight and other tests that an
impartial and capable committee composed of musicians might suggest.

I believe that summer session of our High School is advisable.
It is recognized fact that failures in our public schools retard the regular
advance of students and in the end result in increased expenditures to the
city. Many students, through illness or from other causes, are unable to

a.

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
carry all of their subjects to the end of the vear successfully. Some of these
students return as conditioned pupils when little help during the summer
time would allow them to return in full standing. Again. there are ambitious and capable students who wish to complete their course in shorter
period than four years. Such students, who are in good health, would
benefit by an opportunity to do regular work ina summer session. Another
group of students consists of those who wish to enter college in September
and who have not reached certificate grade, or who have failed in the Cole
lege Entrance examinations. This group might be helped. There are
also students in the Commercial department who wish to do office work.
These students often attend business colleges to await an opportunity 
to get work. Summer courses in commercial subjects would be of benefit
to these. It often happens that students coming from the ninth grade
find it hard to do high school work successfully. Such pupils might be
selected, put in special division and given that work which would help
them when they actually enter the first year class. Ina sentence, would
say that summer session of our High School should be made to fit the
pupil’s needs rather than that the pupil should have to adjust himself
to the school.

Definite work was started last fall on course in Household Arts. |
Much more can be done and much more will be done in this direction.
More and better equipment to carry out this work is needed. Rooms
fitted up in the basement of the building that would meet the conditions
could be used admirably. The Sewing, Cooking, Art and Wood working
departments are co-operating in this work.

Never has the school, through its Commercial department, been in
closer touch with the business life of the city than at present. Very few
days go by without call coming to furnish High School pupil for a
position in an office or store. We are glad to say that in most of these
cases our pupils have proved deserving of our recommendations. Suggestions have been made to employers to submit lists of things they believe
High School pupils should be capable of doing well. These lists will be
made basis for further study and preparation in office work. The school
has been asked by number of firms to translate letters in Spanish. It is
not generally known that we have pupils who can translate these letters.
It is part of the study of certain pupils in the Commercial course. By
placing some of the Commercial pupils on part time they are brought
more directly into actual office conditions. After the beginning of the

- second half of the year we allow seniors to devote most of their time to office
work, crediting them in their Commercial subjects if the work done in
the business office is satisfactory. student must return for English and
History and other subjects that are not strictly commercial. Several employers of office help availed themselves of this plan last year and requests
have already been made for our present commercial seniors. Conferences

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

with the head of the newly organized employment bureau of the American

Writing Paper Company have resulted in arrangements that will be mutually beneficial. )
Two departures in the work of the department of Mathematics have

gone into operation this past year. The first of these effects rearrangement

of subjects for pupils taking the courses which prepare for the arts

courses in colleges. Such pupils take Geometry now in junior year

eand Solid Geometry in senior in place of Review Geometry.  Colleges require that Geometry be completed within eighteen months

of matriculation, either by first reading or review, but they give

no additional credit for review. By the present arrangement the subject

is taken more intelligently because the pupils are year older, which meets

part of the need of review, and the condition as to time of completion

is met in the first reading. The Solid Geometry following in the next

year will supply part of the review of Plane Geometry and will give an additional half credit for entrance by certificate or examination to college.

This plan is now in course of development and ought to yield satisfactory

results. The other departure is to devote one period week, hitherto given

to study, to pursuing the subject first presented at colleges, either Solid

Geometry or Advanced Algebra or Trigonometry. large number took

Solid Geometry, one Algebra, one Trigonometry, during the past year.

Reports from these pupils of the value to them of the anticipation of part

of their freshman college work fully justify this addition to the prepara- '

tion, which enables pupils to meet the work of their first weeks of freshman year with confidence that assures success.
In the last three years seven young women have taken, or are taking, ;

work which enables them to meet completely by certification or examination the entire work of the freshman year at college. Smith College is

very liberal in this matter, accepting certificates for the Solid Geometry,

Advanced Algebra and Trigonometry of the freshman year. At Smith

are two sophomores who were admitted in this way and are taking junior

mathematics, and one freshman who is taking sophomore work sequent

to freshman mathematics. Mount Holyoke does not accept certificates,

but grants advantageous opportunity for examination. One sophomore

entered from our High School in that way and is taking junior mathematics.

Three young women are at present taking this course for Smith, Wellesley

and Oberlin. These subjects have been in the Mathematics course for

many years, being required for Cornell and Shetheld Scientific School,

and in part for all technical schools. Young women have taken advantage

of them only rarely until the last three years.
The general aims of the Modern Language department are: read- :

ing knowledge which shall serve as an introduction to the life and literature |

of the foreign country: Preparation for intellectual occupations in which ;

the ability to read foreign language for information is needed: Founda- |

—
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  

tion for later study having in view the needs of business or travel. The

specific aims are: First year: good pronunciation: Constant

oral and written expression in the foreign tongue: The fundamental |
principles of grammar: vocabulary in the foreign idiom: Translation readily at sight of simple prose in English: Stimulation of interest in foreign literature by memorizing few short poems and reading

suitable legends and stories: Second Year: Completion of the essentials

of grammar: Greater facility in speaking and writing the foreign

language: Ability to read and translate fairly dificult prose: Preparation for elementary College Entrance examinations: Third Year:

( Ability to read more difficult prose: More extensive oral and written

composition: Foundation for the appreciation of some of the masterpieces of foreign literature: Preparation for intermediate College

Entrance examinations. The methods used in carrying out these aims

are: Insistance at all times on accurate pronunciation: Grammar

taught inductively as far as possible: Direct method used wherever

practicable: Reading texts discussed in the foreign idiom. Translation

also used especially in difficult passages: Prose composition. Trans- a

lation of English paraphrases of suitable foreign material with which the

pupil has first made himself acquainted. Also free oral and written composition on familiar topics and themes chosen from the pupil’s reading:

( Memory work, constant drill and repetition in sentences of grammatical

principles, dictation exercises and letter writing.

The department of Classical Languages has carried on its work along

lines similar to those of last year. One departure from this in the school
system at large is the teaching of Latin to group of ninth grade pupils.
It is hoped that in the junior high schools to come, Latin will be taught
both in the eighth and ninth years. The High School first year Latin
book has been used and ninth grade pupils who complete successfully the
first year’s work in Latin will be admitted to the second year Latin class
in the High School next September. The recommendation in years past
that Roman implements, equipments, costumes, be reproduced by the
pupils has borne fruits in many instances.

In the History department an important part of the work, which in :
the past has not been sufficiently emphasized, is that of collateral reading.

In doing this part of our work the newly organized library has
been of invaluable service. During the latter part of last year we
tried the experiment of having the classes meet for class-room work
four periods week, and using the fifth period in the library for the collateral reading. Notes, summaries and outlines of this reading are kept
in notebooks, and frequent oral reports are given in class. This experiment resulted so satisfactorily that the entire department has now been
reorganized on this basis. The subject of Community Civics has been
given more important place in our History department. Over one hun  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
dred pupils are enrolled in this subject. The work is based on Dunn’s
‘Community and the Citizen’. References, notebooks, outside reading,
discussions and reports of individual projects are made important parts
of this subject.
The classes in English are now more efficient and better graded by
departments than ever before. Pupils following the same courses and having similar aims are placed in their respective groups. This makes it possible to carry on individual and class instruction at the same time. The
Commercial department and the English department have many problems
in common. The pupils in Commercial courses are given special drill
on fundamentals in business correspondence, penmanship, neatness, spelling and punctuation. Theclasses in oral Expression are closely connected
with the English department and mutual benefit can be secured by bringing the teachers of both subjects together in conferences. The demands
of the business world and college authorities for better results in English
teaching impose serious task on the High School. ‘Tests in English given
to members of the first year class soon after their admission to the High School were in many cases not encouraging. An explanation of these tests
and statement of the results would take up too much space. Plans are
under way to broaden these tests given to members of the first year class
and to tabulate the results.
In recent number of the ‘Educational Review’ professor of Columbia University gives from personal knowledge his estimate of the English
found in the theses of the graduate students for Ph. D. degrees. The |
Opinion is far from complimentary. Such scholars are the ones remaining
after several refining processes in grammar schools, secondary schools,
colleges and post-graduate courses. It is not necessary to take up in detail many of the causes which counteract the good efforts of the teachers |
- of English. Slovenly sph, trashy reading, careless composition and
outside associations are constantly at war with the school which has the
pupil but few hours each week in the environment of the English classroom. The public has the right to expect and should demand efficiency
of the product of the public schools, but the same public should bear in
mind that through many of its members it may be encouraging forces
which directly oppose and defeat the very ends for which the school is
striving. In the suggestions of outside reading, in the greater use of the :
school library, and in the lecture courses we are striving to awaken and
hold in the boys and girls lively interest in good literature and working :
knowledge of the tools of oral and written composition.
The Science classes are following schedule similar to last year. Physical Geography has been discontinued and Commercial Geography placed
inthe Commercial department. Chemistry is offered to second year pupils
in the College Preparatory course and results show that the percentage of
successful pupils is as high as when second year pupils were excluded.
Both the quantity and quality of the work have improved. :

a

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
As working part of the school life, the Library must be judged by |

two things: Do the pupils themselves use the material supplied by
the Library? Are the pupils gaining what may be called the ‘Library
Habit’? In other words, are they acquiring knowledge of the equipment,
sufficient to lead them to supplement their text books with an intelligent
use of the reference books that are in the Library? The attendance since
the first of October has averaged thirty-five pupils for each hour of the day.
This is good increase over the attendance of last year. Many of the
teachers in the various departments have made out lists of references
which are in constant use. In the History department, each pupil is required to submit report of at least one hour’s reading week from references that bear directly on the work he is doing in the class-room. In
the English department, each pupil must read four books selected from a
list prepared by the Head of the Finglish department and the Librarian.
Here the Public Library comes to our help by lending us three hundred
or more books for supplementary reading. [ach of these supplementary
reading books is taken out for week’s time by large number of pupils.
We hope that during the year other departments will fall into line
and require regular library work from every boy and girl. Besides the
regular work of the students in the Library, there has developed another
phase of library usage that is bound to increase. Parents of the pupils
and older brothers and sisters are coming frequently to ask for aid in selecting books to read on subjects of special interest to them. In this way
we are trying to help the Public Library by sending them number of older
people who have found definite reason for going to the Public Library.
For another year several suggestions are offered. First, of course, there
is the need of more books, especially on subjects connected with Science
and Art. We have very few books on Manual Training or Sewing, and
fewer yet on Mechanical Drawing. By the co-operation between the heads
of departments and the Librarian, we ought to add to our shelves books
on each of these subjects. Then we need collection of good photographs
and postal cards, which should be so placed that the pupils can use them
at any time to help them visualize what they are studying. The card
catalog is now ready for consultation. It contains both author and

title cards of reference. We are adding also topical references, so that in ,

time there will be available with the least expenditure of time all the ma- |
terial that the Library contains on given subject. In making the Library useful to as many pupils as possible, there has been the most hearty
co-operation between the teachers, the Public Library and the High School
Librarian; for we all realize that the best type of training in subject is
not that which ends when the text book is closed, but that which leads

straight to the information which the books in library may offer.

It is an interesting fact that in June class of out of total
of received diplomas in spite of the fact that the passing mark was

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

raised from to per cent. and the courses of study were increased in

both quality and quantity. This raising of the passing mark to and

the lengthening of the hours has resulted in the Holyoke High School

qualifying to receive ‘Class A’ rating in the new classification of the State

Board of Education. Of the pupils who were graduated took the

Commercial course and practically all of these have positions in commercial work in or near Holyoke; students went to the Massachusetts

Normal Schools; are in special schools; are continuing their education

in other preparatory schools or finishing schools; pupils have returned

for some sort of post-graduate work; and pupils are in colleges, universities, technical schools or other professional schools. Of the remainder

no returns have been received yet. Niembers of the class of entered

the following colleges and universities without conditions: Columbia,

Harvard, Amherst, Dartmouth, Holy Cross, Massachusetts Institute of

Technology, Syracuse, Valpariaso, Mt. Holyoke, Wellesley, Smith, Vassar,

University of Pennsylvania, Tufts, Simmons and Skidmore. Five pupils ,

returned in September for post-graduate work. Two of them are

now in Smith, one in Simmons, one in Vassar and one in Columbia University. This makes total of pupils sent by the Holyoke High School

in September to institutions of higher education. The main problem of the High School is to deal with the boy or girl who cannot continue

education in other schools. At the same time the High School is not neglecting the needs of the pupils preparing for college, which statement can

be verified by the records sent by the colleges to the High School. This [

preparation is given in spite of the fact that the college authorities tend |

to increase their requirements of admission every year. Almost every !

community has the unfair tendency of placing the entire responsibility )

for failures on the preparatory school rather than on the pupil himself

or on the college. good majority of all the freshmen in any college,

no matter in what high school or academy they prepare, receive condition sometime during the first year of college. It is general tendency of

communities to find fault with the high schools because in one or two cases

the certified pupils do not meet the demands of the college. The injustice
. of such criticism is shown by the fact that the or per cent. of the pu- |

pils who were certified and who receive no conditions are not considered :

at all for favorable criticism, but rather the unfavorable criticism is directed :

against the few who fail. The Holyoke High School has again been en- :

dorsed by the New England College Entrance Board and, on the work of }

its pupils in the higher institutions and by recommendation of an examining board, the privilege of certifying without examination to New England  

Colleges has again been renewed.

The honor list of the class was determined by averages rather

than by the nine highest, that is, an honor list was issued giving the names

of members of the class having an average of eighty-nine or higher for the

four years. This list was as follows, the names arranged in order of schol- .

a
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
arship: Helen Elizabeth Moriarty, Christine McKenzie Hooks, Julia Agnes
Sheehan, Harold Birney Whitmore, Catherine Merrill Allyn, George Prew
Savoy, William Patrick Shea, Viola Elizabeth Burgess, Catherine Veronica
Clark, Bertha Barowsky, George Whipple King, Josephine Ursula Curran.
A second list was also given out containing the names of all members of
the class having an average of eighty-five to eighty-nine. The names of
all graduates will be found on another page of this report.

Changes in the faculty have been few. Miss Madeline Slade, teacher
of Commercial subjects, resigned to accept similar position in the Cambridge High School. Miss Anna Laporte, who had been teacher of
French for over ten years, resigned to go to the New Haven High School.
Miss Slade’s position was filled by the appointment of Miss Frances
Pattison, teacher of several years’ experience at the Eastman-Gaines
Business School in New York City. She studied at Hunters’ College
and completed several courses in the New York University. Miss Jeannette Sears, graduate of Vassar College and teacher of considerable
experience, sucded Miss Laporte.

The annual Prize Speaking Contest was won by Philip O’Brien of the
class of  He decided not to represent the school in the interscholastic contest at Mt. Vernon, New York. His place was taken by the alternate, Frank Lynch of the class of  .

At recent faculty meeting committee was appointed to make a
careful investigation of the school day in one hundred and fifty of the representative high schools of the country. It is too early now to give any
report. Recommendations may be made later suggesting some changes
in hours and number or periods. The thought of the committee is not |
shorter day but possible rearrangement of time. In this way we might
have sessions not quite as continuous but covering longer hours. This
might reduce the fatigue element to pupil and teacher and make for greater
eficiency. All this is to be guided in part by the best results found in other
progressive schools.

The Shakespearean anniversary year was properly observed. Marshall Darrach in addition to his two appearances in the Lecture Course was
secured to give morning recital of the ‘Merchant of Venice’ before the
school. The clubs of the school devoted some of their programs to Shakespearean subjects. The most important function in this connection was the .
pageant and play ‘Master Skylark’ given by the senior class in the outdoor
aduitorium at Mt. Holyoke College. The general arrangement of the
pageant were intrusted to the Head of the English department. The
play was under the direction of Miss Powers, teacher of Oral Expression.
Practically all of the departments of the school did their part in making
the affair success. The costumes, except those of the players, were designed and made in the Sewing classes. The Manual Training and Art
departments furnished equipment for several groups. Music was provided by the combined High School and grammar schoo] orchestras.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

April  th was observed as ‘High School Day’ for ninth grade pupils.
A program and invitation was sent to each pupil and to their parents
showing the order of exercises and the arrangement of all rooms in both
buildings. On the same day there was an exhibition of Iligh School work
arranged in the corridors and class-rooms. No attempt was made to elaborate on the work of the school but satisfactory evidence was shown of
what the school is doing in all departments. In the gymnasium special
drills and games were given. The Commercial department held speed
contest in Typewriting and the Cooking classes served lunch to the vis, itors. Space will not permit of detailed account of this exhibit.

It will be reproduced, improved and enlarged this spring if plans now
in mind can be carried out.

I wish to thank you and the School Board for the helpful and willing
co-operation in our endeavor to make this school better and to have jt
more completely serve the needs of this community.”

VIII. EVENING SCHOOLS.

In the four elementary evening schools, Morgan, West Street,
Lawrence and William Whiting, the work has been very satisfactory, but the attendance has been somewhat disappointing.
These schools have most important place in the educational
system of city whose evening school organization has for many
years been held in high regard here and elsewhere. They are
supervised by four experienced principals, three of whom are |
grammar masters in the day schools, the fourth being the vice- |
principal of the High School. The teaching force is especially |
competent. Special books, outlines of work, and definite
system of grading lend increased efficiency to these schools.
During the year classes in sewing and dressmaking have been
opened in all four buildings. The only way to grasp the meaning and appreciate the value of this type of school is by direct
observation.

The Evening High School year after year has been able
to report progress and success in its work. This school, unlike many of its kind, is actually operated on the plan of Day
High School, with departments; courses of study; diploma
requirements; regular periods for recitation; card, certificate
and marking systems; and other features which distinguish
modern evening high school organization. Here, any group
of students, provided the group is reasonably large, may ob—
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
tain instruction in any subject they desire, unless the subject
is taught in the elementary evening schools or in the Evening
Vocational School. The following excerpts from Principal
Garvey’s report merit careful attention:

“The Evening High School finished its session in March by egraduating the largest class.in its history—twenty-four boys and twenty-five
girls.

The work of the school this year is in line with that of former years.
While the enrolment has fallen off for obvious reasons, the percentage
of attendance is just as high as formerly.

The opening of the gymnasium and swimming pool for use by
Evening High School pupils was taken advantage of by large number
of our boys and girls, to whom the privilege affords excellent opportunity
for physical training and development not otherwise obtainable by them.

The classes of the Commercial department and in Civil Service are
the largest in the school.

This year there has been particularly strong demand for instruction
in Physics and Chemistry. The experimental work in Chemistry, by recommendation of the head of the Science department in the Day High
School and in order to conform to the day school practice necessitated by
the shortage of chemicals and glassware, has consisted up to the present ‘

. mainly of lecture table demonstrations, with such ocacasional individual
laboratory work as could be had by minimum expenditure of chemicals
and of glassware. The general character of the students in these classes
is excellent and compares favorably with any other group in the day or
evening high schools. brief classification would show the following
grouping: Young men, graduates of the Holyoke High School who have
had chemistry and who wish more work along the same line because of its
bearing on their work in the industrial life of the city: Other young men,
beginners in science, who wish to understand the physical and chemical
processes involved in their work: Girls taking chemistry preliminary to
courses for trained nurses: Young men whose college work has been in- ;
terrupted, generally for lack of funds, who want to keep in touch with }

laboratory practice: Vocational School students, generally boys in the last
phase of that school: Younger boys who have had elementary science in
the Holyoke High School, who are now employed in various lines of work,
and who have acquired and retained an interest in science. Three types of
chemical laboratory work are conducted simultaneously, viz: Advanced
general inorganic work for pupils who have had year course in day or
evening school: Qualitative analysis: Regular course for beginners in Chemistry. This system entails necessarily considerable work and watchfulness on the part of the instructor, but at present this seems to be the only

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
practical method of procedure with pupils of relatively widely different
attainments and capabilities.

The interest in the class in Spanish has been well sustained. Practically all of the members of last year’s class who are still in Holyoke
enrolled again this year to continue the subject. Many new people wished

\ to begin it, but stress of work in most mills and offices prevented some from
beginning and forced others to discontinue night school work. During
the first year we study the pronunciation and the most important principles of the grammar. As most of the members want Spanish forcommercial 
purposes, we spend good deal of time on the dictation and the translation of business letters and advertisements. The second year class studies
the more difficult constructions and continues hearing and speaking the
language, writing letters, etc.

The class in Freehand Drawing might easily be extended to meet
the needs of pupils interested in Dressmaking, Millinery and Embroidery. To this end course in Costume Design should be offered. This
should begin with general study of Design, which would include the relation of lines and masses to the figure. It should also deal in fundamental study of the color theory, giving the various color combinations
and their applications to gowns and hats. Numerous problems of daily
interest to women would also be considered, such as borders, or patterns

, used for decoration, or such accessories as collars, cuffs, belts and bags.
Such course should be popular one.

The classes in Mechanical Drawing and Manual Training this year
have attracted very large number of young men, and the character of |
the work throughout the entire year has been excellent. I

The work of the class in Literature is arranged to acquaint the students with the best literary efforts and to cultivate in their minds healthy,
active desire for, and appreciation of, the works of the greatest writers
of poetry and prose. The program is made up of lectures on the lives of
the authors read, and careful study of the books, with selections of the
best passages illustrative of the different branches of composition. Likewise study of the drama is made. We have made special effort this
year to develop good course in History, and have continued the course
in Debating and Public Speaking, which latter has always proved popular.

The Citizenship Course opened during the winter of was
very popular. The same has been true of the class which opened in November last. As it was apparent that many who presented themselves
for instruction in this class were deficient in English, and as the Federal
Government is becoming more and more insistent upon knowledge of
the English language as requisite for citizenship, class in English for
these pupils was opened early in the term. Those who attend are receiving great benefit. This whole subject may in the course of another year
be worked up and extended so as to form one complete Civics department.

 we
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
The possibilities here are unlimited. With careful study of the subject
and thorough understanding of the needs of our citizens—prospective
and otherwise—there is every reason to believe that we may be able to
turn out as products of this school men who will have deep sense of their
obligations as citizens and fully appreciate their duties to the community.

The work of the school is greatly handicapped by the lighting arrangement of the building. While few of the rooms are fairly well lighted,
yet many other rooms and the corridors need attention. The lights in
the drawing room are wholly unsuitable for evening work. In some of
the rooms the lights are not equally distributed. This must have an injurious effect upon the eyes of the pupils, and it interferes very much with
their work. It would be of immense benefit to the school if the entire sys-'
tem of lighting were changed.”’

: IX. SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS.

During the past three years the School Board has spared no
effort to increase the efficiency of the six special departments.
The work in Manual Training, in Drawing and in Household
Arts is well organized, supervised and correlated. The plans

 and courses of study are carried out in shop, class-room, sewingroom and kitchen in accordance with the best modern educational precepts in the field of manual arts. The penmanship
of both teachers and pupils has shown marked improvement
since the introduction of the “Palmer Method” in February
 This is uniform, definite, graded system of writing
- and method of teaching it. Before the close of this school
year, representatives of the Palmer Company will visit all the
class-rooms jn the various schools, inspect the work of teachers
and pupils, and pass judgment on teachers for final approval |
in the work of teaching Palmer writing. The health and phy- |
sical education of the pupils is in charge of the special department of School Hygiene, department so original, so valuable
and so efficient, that the whole of Part V. of this volume is
devoted to description of its work. The problem of reorganizing the Music department is still unsolved. The Special
Departments Committee has this matter under consideration
and will present definite plans in June.

[
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

The following excerpts from the reports of the supervisors will supplement with detail the general statements made
above: /

“The outlook for very successful work in Manual Training was
never more promising. The schedules of the teachers have been adjusted
by the addition of substitute two days week, so that the over-crowding
of previous years has been corrected. Manual Training teachers in the
grammar school centers have about fifteen classes week with an allowance
of time for the care of tools and equipment. marked difference can be
noted in the appearance of the rooms and in the increased interest of the
pupils who now work in properly equipped centers where everything is
kept up to high standard.

The extra time afforded by the delay in the opening of schools last

fall was used to good advantage in the Manual Training department.
We were able to carry to completion plans which had been under advisement for several years. The larger centers at the Morgan, West Street,
Highland and Joseph Metcalf Schools were badly in need of additional
equipment such as lockers for storing unfinished work, tool cabinets, seating platforms and exhibition boards. We were able to complete much
of this work before school opened. The remainder has since been done
by the teachers with the help of the pupils.

The questions of equipment and teachers’ schedules having been.

satisfactorily solved, we are now able to give our attention to the course
of study and related subjects. The work in grade seven, which was outlined on the Sloyd system, has been replaced by wood working course
which more nearly meets the needs of the school and home. This is supplemented by work in sheet metal and problems of applied design. The
course in grade cight in wood work and cement is developing satisfactorily.
The problems in applied design in this grade have added much new life
and interest. The introduction of sheet metal work of simple and practical nature, such as the construction of dust pans, fire pails, shovels and
kitchen utensils, has been considered for some time and we look toward
its adoption in the near future. Ninth grade Manual Training consists
of wood work, and printing in the center where we are provided with a
printing equipment. The introduction of printing in the remaining centers should be carried forward as rapidly as our finances will permit.
The teaching of printing in the ninth grade has passed its trial stage and
the results warrant an expenditure for its establishment throughout the
city.

The work in Applied Design in the three grammar grades has received careful consideration and encouragement in order that the proper
co-ordination between Drawing and Manual Training should be established.

One problem in each grade was selected as exhibiting qualities that lend

a
. REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
themselves favorably to Design and to the application of the design in
a concrete manner in the shops. These problems have been complete and
present an encouraging example of what can be done if two departments
in the school work together.

During the second half year the Manual Training department works
with the boys who take up home and school gardening. Last vear flower
boxes and marking stakes were made in as large numbers as our equipment
would allow. It is planned to adopt jig system and follow factory methods in this work so that greater production will enable us to meet the needs
more adequately.

The work in grammar school Manual Training would be greatly benefitted by schedule modification which would allow the ninth grade work
to be taught in the afternoon. Seventh and eighth grade work would
then come in the morning session, and each class would be allowed one
period of an hour and half.

The Manual Training work at the High School is still handicapped
by the introduction of the five period day. Pupils are unable to find time
for Manual Training in their schedules. The organization of optional
afternoon work has helped to relieve the difficulty but, until afternoon
work becomes more general, we can do no more than suggest this to the
pupils as solution of the schedule problems.

Joinery and Cabinet-making are given during the first year. Better
preparation in the grammar grades is making it possible to cut down the
time devoted to joinery during the first half year. The work in Cabinetmaking is of the most practical nature. Each project represents real
necd felt either in the pupils’ homes or in the school plant.

The course of four years is planned thus:

First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Joinery Wood-turning Foundry Work Machine Shop
Cabinet-making Pattern-making Forging Practice ”

Foundry Work
: (From Report of Supervisor of Manual Training, R. E. Hamill.)

; ‘“We are fortunate in the fact that Drawing and Manual Training in
grades one to six are in the same course. Consequently, very close
correlation can be secured. Time and materials are often saved and a
greater amount of work accomplished than would otherwise be the case.
I consider that the work is entirely satisfactory in these grades, and that
the maximum results are attained, considering the time allotment.

The disadvantage of the small amount of time allotted to Drawing
is more noticeable in the upper grades, seven to nine, where the problems
presented are more difficult and more elaborate, and where more skill on
the part of the grade teacher is demanded.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLSMost pupils in the High School are obliged to take four regular studies
and some gymnasium work. There is little time left for special studies.
A greater number of pupils should take advantage of the excellent equipment for teaching Drawing that we have in the High School.
Much time and thought have been spent during the past year upon
the preparation of new outline for our Course in Drawing. The topics
taught are constantly becoming more practical and in many cases deal directly with the problems of the individual and of the home. An endeavor
has been made to teach the principles governing the arrangement of pleasing lines and harmonious coloring and how to apply such knowledge to
the pupils’ problems of dress and house furnishing. Good work has already
been done along these lines. It is expected that the new outline will so
systematize the work that still further advance will be made.
} The proposed display of pupils work at the School Exhibit in May,
will show more plainly than words can tell what measure of success has
been attained during the past year by the Drawing department.” (From
Report of Supervisor of Drawing, Mrs. Isabelle H. Ferry.)
In the five Sewing classes at the High School, two'advanced and three
elementary, nine hundred and fifty-two garments have been made, exclusive of the costumes for the pageant held in June  The pupils
made most of these articles for themselves for immediate use. An increasing number of pupils help with clothing of others in the home. One girl
has made all the blouses worn by younger brother, and many girls are ;
able to remain in school, who could not otherwise do so, because of their |
ability to make their own clothes. It is earnestly recommended that at |
least one set of laundry tubs be installed, so that modern methods of Jaundering may be taught.
Early in the year an exhibition of work in each department of the
High School was held on ‘Grammar School Day.’ In the Household
Arts department this was quite comprehensive, including rugs, shirtwaist boxes covered in cretonne, window draperies and table linens, besides the usual underwear, dresses and blouses. Three silk shirtwaist
'  guits attracted favorable attention. But the most satisfactory exhibit
of work by these classes is the wearing of the dresses, sweaters, etc. every. !
day to school.
Costumes were made for the pageant, which formed part of the Commencement exercises. If costume making is to be expected of all senior
girls who participate in the June pageant, dramatics, or whatever form of
entertainment is given by the graduating class, it will be necessary to make
sewing obligatory in at least one year of the High School course.
Work in the grades has been satisfactory this year. In some schools
a revision of the plan of work will be required to conform to conditions in
different localities. We find that in houses where each member has some

inser

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  

definite part of the work to do, the girls can be given more hand work,

and more advanced type of work, than girls from other homes. During

the coming year it is advised that we try out the plan, recently advocated

very strongly by the United States Bureau of Education, of having different schemes of work for schools in different localities, giving special attention to the schools where pupils leave as soon as they are allowed working

cards. These pupils need and should have, more than any others the best

 instruction in the care and selection of their clothing. ‘Therefore would

"again urge the introduction of this work into lower grades, at least in some

schools.’”?” (From Report of Supervisor of Household Arts, Mrs. Elisabeth
I. Perkins.)

. ‘*During the past year we have used the Palmer Method with success.
In February visited every school, leaving written instructions
for each grade regarding the collecting of samples of writing. In April
I received notice to compare these samples with samples of writing collected in February before the introduction of the Palmer system.
The results of the comparison show that in every class room in our public
school there is marked improvement in writing, that grows greater each
year.” (From Report of Supervisor of Writing, Esther A. MacDonnell.)

“In the Music department, the outline of work of previous years was
followed. An especially delightful feature was the singing from supplementary song book which contained practically all the old familiar
songs.

At the High School there were two very large choruses with an attendance of about  These classes are elective. The senior class is now
studying ‘Il Trovatore’, with the expectation 'of rendering this opera in
the near future.

The orchestra at the High School is very successful organization.”
(From Report of Supervisor of Music, Hugh Craig.)

| X. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.

Vocational Education is detined as ‘‘any education, the ;
controlling purpose of which is to fit for profitable employ ment”’. The Holyoke Vocational School, with its Day School for Boys,
Evening Trade Extension Courses for Men and Evening Pratical Arts Classes for Women, is unit in the great vocational
movement in education—a movement fundamentally important to the industrial supremacy of our country and to the dignity and efficiency of labor. The third annual volume, soon
to be issued by the Board of Trustees for Vocational Educa  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
tion, will offer detailed report of the work, service, character,
progress and needs of this school.

XI. SCHOOL EXHIBIT.

A school exhibit will be held in the City Hall in the latter
part of May  This is planned to show objectively in a
simple, but complete way, the character, extent ard progress .
of public school work in Holyoke. It will be an exhibit of school
work from the viewpoint of quality, rather than quantity.
It will aim to show the parents, the citizens, and other visitors
what is done in our public schools; by whom, how, where and |
when it is done; how much it costs; and whether it is done
with economy, efficiency and success.

XII. SPECIAL HELP CLASS.

This class for atypical children was opened in October
at the Elm Street School, in charge of Miss Alice Geran, specialist in the work of examining, segregating and teaching
subnormal children. During the past year Miss Geran visited

| all the public schools of the city; conferred with principals,
teachers and parents; examined several thousand children;
selected the most serious cases needing special help; organized
a class of twenty pupils, and began work in specially equipped
class-room. Only by visiting this room and observing the work
can one fully realize the great advantages of such class not
only to the special pupils themselves, but also to the regular |
teachers who tried to help them, and to their more fortunate
classmates. ;
AHI. SCHOOL SAVINGS BANKS.

A branch of Thrift is taught in the local public schools
by means of small savings banks organized in the schools and
connected with the savings department of the Holyoke National
Bank. The plan is as follows: Certain hours of certain days
are set aside for receiving deposits in every schoolevery week. Pupils deposit their money in sums ranging from penny to
twenty-five cents. They receive small deposit cards very much

a
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
like the book issued to depositor in any savings bank. When
the account on the pupil’s card aches the sum of one dollar
the money is deposited in the savings department of the Holyoke National Bank, and the pupil receives regular savings
bank book. He then begins to save on his school bank book
for the next bank deposit of dollar.

On December  there were children depositors, interest accounts,  depositied and 
withdrawn. On January  there were children
depositors, interest accounts,  deposited and
$  withdrawn. Even if the success of the work ended
here it would be source of great satisfaction. It goes further,
however, because many children by example have induced their
parents to become savings bank depositors.

XIY. HOMIE AND SCHOOL GARDENS.
This work was successfully begun in the spring of  .
The results obtained in were even more satisfactory than
the work of the first year. Mr. George D. Hearn, teacher
at the High School who has specialized in home and school
garden work at Amherst for several summers, is the supervisor. The general plan is to acquaint the pupils in all the
schools with the work through lectures and demonstrations,
| and to enroll as many as care to have gardens either at home

or on the land controlled by the School Department. More

than pupils were enrolled and about carried through

the work with good success. In September there was successful exhibit of flowers and vegetables from the various school |

and home gardens. ‘The supervisor has estimated that the |
- total return from the vegetable gardens amounted to .

In spending about  to carry through this work the School

Board made no account of this financial return, but merely

felt that the expenditure would be justified by the training

given to the children in the science of agriculture, by their

better health, and by the fact that they were given definite

and valuable occupation which would keep many of them away

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
from the streets during vacation. The following excerpts
from the report of Mr. Hearn will be of interest:

“An idea of some of the work accomplished on our small garden
plots, both home and school, may be obtained by referring to our results.
One little girl, twelve years old, made net gain of  on her plot feet
by feet, which figures about  per acre. The average gain throuchout the city was about  per plot.

The parents often visited the school gardens, and some depended
upon the vegetables their chilldren brought home. One mother told me
that her family of four was supplied with vegetables during the summer
by the school gardens of her two children.

For the first time large city exhibit was held in September. In
August the club worker of the Hampden County Improvement League
talked to the children on the selection and arrangement of flowers and
vegetables for an exhibit. There were exhibitors and separate exhibits. About people saw the display, which lasted all one day and
evening. '

The work was more successful than that of last year and we look forward to still better season in  .”

AV. TIME SCHEDULE.
The attention of the Board and others connected with or
interested in the public school system is directed to the revised
. time schedule on the second page of the School Board Manual.
This schedule shows the subjects taught and the minutes per
week allotted to these studies throughout the nine grades.
It is the result of comparative study of similar schedules in
effect in forty-eight cities of the United States—with due regard to local educational demands. The schedule shows that
  per cent of the actual working time in school is spent on reading, writing, arithmetic, language, spelling and geography.
XVI. SYSTEM OF PURCHASING SUPPLIES.

The average monthly expenditure of the School Board
for books, furniture, equipment, printing, paper, and all other
building and educational supplies is about Paper,
pens, pencils, note books and -various kinds of supplies are
purchased in June on open competitive bids. duplicate
requisition and triplicate order system checks absolutely all
requisitions, orders, deliveries and prices.

aay
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
AVIT. APPOINTMENT OF TEACHERS.

In discussing this topic the writer must repeat statements
made in previous reports. For some years the School Board
has recognized the principle that the authority of the Superintendent of Schools should measure up with his responsibility,
and has placed the appointing of teachers absolutely in his
hands. Your Superintendent has set down definite requirements which all candidates must meet if they wish to be appointed to teaching positions. For instance, no teachers are
chosen for regular positions in the grades unless they can meet
the following requirements:

 Evidence of graduation from recognized high school
and from recognized normal school.

 Evidence of at least one year’s successful experience
as teacher in charge of school.

 Evidence of good scholarship in high school and
normal school work, and satisfactory recommendations from
employing superintendents and principals.

 Evidence of good character, health and temperament.

 Evidence of ability through personal interview with
the Superintendent, and through visit of investigation made
by the Superintendent or principal representing him to classes
taught by the applicant.

 Evidence, by written examination, of proper knowledge
of subjects, pupils, teaching methods and general educational
history and psychology.

 (May be substituted for and  .) Applicants who have
a high school diploma and are graduates of recognized college oo
or kindergarten school (at least two years’ course) and who
additionally can present evidence of at least three years’ successful teaching experience in charge of graded schools, may receive permission from the Superintendent to substitute this
as equivalent to Requirements and above. ,

Teachers for High School, the special departments and
for other positions are selected in an equally fair and satisfactory manner.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
XVIII. REORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL SYSTEM.

On this topic your Superintentendent wishes to quote
from his report of last year as follows:

“The object of this brief discussion is not to advise the immediate
reorganization of the local public school system, but rather to recommend and help to direct careful consideration of plans for reorganization
formulated in other cities like Holyoke.

Fifty years ago the elementary schools had six grades, followed by
four vears of high school work. This elementary course has gradually
been increased by two years, and in some places by three years, not including kindergartens. The elementary course of eight grades has practically become standard in most city school systems, although minority
of cities in Massachusetts still retain the nine grades.

There is not single good reason, either in pedagogy or in physiology, why the work of pupils should be differentiated at the end of the
eighth or ninth grades. There are many good reasons why the transition
from the elementary school to junior secondary or intermediate school

| should come when the pupil has completed the sixth grade, has reached
the age of about twelve, and has entered upon the period of transition
from childhood to youth.

Many educational authorities hold that the present organization
of public day school systems (omitting kindergartens and special schools)
on the ‘eight-and-four-year plan’ or ‘nine-and-four-year plan’ is artificial
and accidental. There is strong support in the best places for the ‘sixthree-three plan,’ that is, elementary schools of six years, junior high schools
of three years and senior high schools of three years.”

Since this was written, in January  hundreds of
progressive cities like Boston, Rochester, N. Y., Springfield
and Somerville have taken the first steps toward establishing
the “six-three-three” organization.

In Holyoke, the whole question of reorganization of the
school system is in the hands of Committee of Five, consisting of the Chairman of the School Board, three Board members,
and the Superintendent of Schools. This Committee will study
local demands and consider local school conditions; will seek
the professional opinions of local principals and teachers; will
obtain information from those who have given long study to
problems of school reorganization in other cities; and then,
before June  will make definite recommendation to the
full Board on this most important question.


REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
XIX. FACTS REGARDING SCHOOL EXPENDITURES.
For consideration by the School Board and the public
your Superintendent presents certain facts relative to school ‘
expenditures. The figures and proof of the following statements may be found in the local municipal registers, in the
reports of the State Board of Education from to date,
and in the reports on municipal finances issued by the State
Bureau of Statistics:
.  The public school expenditures in Holyoke have increased during the past eight or ten years, but at no alarming
rate, and, relatively, in no greater amount than the expenditures of other large city departments orof other school systems
throughout the state.
 The public school expenditures in Holyoke during  ,
  and  considered as percentages of the total payments
from revenue of the city, were lower than the expenditures
during  and  This is true either year for year
or in total. Further search would probably prove that this
statement holds true for several years previous to  In
che tabulation below the cost of the Vocational School is not
included because there were no expenditures for vocational
education for full year until  and because the State,
which pays half maintenance cost of vocational schools, considers expenditures in support of vocational education separate item not to be included in support of public schools.
As matter of fact, the cost of maintaining the public schools
in plus the cost of maintaining the Vocational School
is no greater, in percentage’of revenue payments, than the cost :
of maintaining the regular schools alone in  or  .
Revenue Payments Support of Cents per Dollar
Year by City Schools for Schools
  cents
  cents
  cents
  cents
  cents
  cents

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

It is impossible to pass fair judgment on the reasonableness of school expenditures without considering this question:
What percentage of the total revenue payments of the city is
spent on the public schools? Some cities fix per cent. as a
reasonable share. The State Bureau of Statistics gives  
per cent. as the average for the State in the year  .
The table above shows that in Holyoke in the public

school expenditures were per cent. (less than one-fifth)
of the revenue payments of the city, while in each of the three
years previous to the public school expenditures were
more than one-fifth. This statement receives added strength
from the fact that the figures, which are less than per cent.,
include the cost of support for the High School Gymnasium,
the new department of School Hygiene, expenditures for  
extra pupils, and large salary increases which did not obtain
in or  .

 There are six cities in Massachusetts which, according
to the estimates of  have population of between  
and  These cities are Lynn, Lawrence, Somerville,
Brockton, Holyoke and Haverhill. In this group Holyoke
stands fourth in valuation; second in revenue receipts; second
in total maintenance cost; and fifth in total expenditures for
public schools.

 Somerville, Brockton and Haverhill expend for school
support, respectively,  and  per  valuation; Holyoke spends  per  valuation.

 The number of pupils enrolled in the public schools
of Holyoke in was  per cent. greater than the number
enrolled in  The average increase in enrolment throughout Massachusetts for over was per cent. The
cost per pupil in Holyoke in was per cent. greater than
in  The average cost per pupil throughout Massachusetts in was per cent. greater than in  .

 The average increase in expenditures for total support of public schools throughout Massachusetts in over
  was per cent. The increase in expenditures for

—.
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
total support of public schools in Holyoke in over  
was per cent.
XX. PLANS FOR  .

Your Superintendent wishes to close this part of the report
by requesting your consideration of the following recommendations: ,

 That the policy of the School Board with respect
to the reorganization of the school system be determined before June  )

 That vacation classes be held at the High School

| during the summer of  as recommended by Principal
Conant, for students who have failed through neglect, illness or
necessary absence; and for students who wish to complete their
course in less than four years.

 That second class for atypical,children be organized
to care for special cases in or near the schools of the Third District.

 That at least one school nurse be appointed to “‘fol low up” the work of the school physicians.

 That the work of the Music department be reorganized
and developed.

 That broad plan of home visiting by teachers be
formulated.

 That the School Hygiene department be authorized
to make investigation and present plan for dental inspection
of school children.

 That steps be taken with the proper authorities to |
provide more play space for the pupils of the Morgan and Sargeant Street Schools.

 That the building projects which the School Board
favors be earnestly pressed forward.

 That very special effort be made to economize both
in the salaries account and in the supplies account.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
XXI. CONCLUSION.

Your Superintendent wishes to express his gratitude to
the supervisors, principals and teachers for their increasingly
valuable work; to the city departments and city officials, especially the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Public Works,
the Board of Health, the Public Library, the City Auditor
and the Inspector of Public Buildings, for their co-operation;
and most especially to the members’ of the School Board for
the hearty support accorded to their executive officer.

] Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS McSHERRY,
Superintendent of Schools.

|
PART IV. ,
. STATISTICAL REPORT OF THE
| SUPERINTENDENT
To the School Board of Holyoke:—
Your Superintendent submits the following statistical report under five headings:
A— Statistics giving general information regarding the census,
number of pupils, attendance, receipts and expenditures.
B— Financial statistics showing how the school appropriation
was spent and giving the accounts with the various schools.
C— Attendance statistics covering enrolment, membership,
attendance, number of teachers, distribution of pupils
by schools, grades, ages and courses.
D—- Statistics comparing attendance and distribution of pupils,
receipts and expenditures through several school years.
I’— Miscellaneous tables and information.
UNDER (A) GENERAL STATISTICS.
Population of Holyoke, Massachusetts census
April  .......... ...  
Total valuation of property...............  
School Census, September  :
Number of children to years of age  
Number of children  to years of age  
Number of children to years of age |
Number of children to years of age  
Number of pupils enrolled in all public day
schools, year ended June  ..........  
Number under years of age............  
Number over years of age............  
Number between and years of age...  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
Average membership in all public day schools,

year ended June  ..................  

| Average attendance in all public day schools,
year ended June  ..................  
| Percentage of attendance...................  

Total income of School Board for fiscal year

ended November .............. 
*Total expenditure of School Board for fiscal

year ended November .......... 
Unexpended balance November ...... 
Expended for schools by Board of Public Works:

Sites and new buildings................. 

Alterations and improvements. :........  

Ordinary repairs............... 

Fuel, power, light and water............  
Expended for Vocational School by Board of

Public Works...  ...    
Total expenditure for support of schools, year

ended November .............. 
Total expenditure for support of schools, year |

ended June ..................  
Total expenditure for support of schools, year

ended June ...................  
**Cost per pupil based on average membership,

year ended June ...............  
Cost per pupil based on average membership,

year ended June ...............  
Cost per pupil in day schools, year ended June

  .....  ... 

Cost per pupil in evening schools, year ended

June .............. .....  

Tax on one dollar of valuation (for support)...  
*This includes an expenditure of  which properly belongs to Vocational Edusee Expenditure for support of all public schools (day and evening) divided by average
membership in day schools.
) |

ei Do
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
UNDER (B) FINANCIAL STATISTICS.
TABLE I. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
 Receipts.
Dog taxes..................... 
Tuition................... )
Sale of furniture................  
Sale of books and supplies.......  
Rental of school halls...........  
Refund from State for tuition. ...  
Refund on graduation account....  
Refund on exhibit..............  
Refund on office expenses........  
—————- 
Appropriations:
Salaries................... 
Supplies..................  
—- ——— 
Total income... ................  
Total expenditures.............. .
Balance November ....... Expenditures.
Salaries: ]
Day school teachers.........  
Evening school teachers... ..  
School hygiene.............  
Superintendent............. :
Secretary to superintendent.  
Clerks......... ..  
Attendance officers..........  
Schoolhouse agent..........  
Janitors and matrons........  
Census................  
Total salaries.................. 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
Supplies: .
Rental....................  
Furniture equipment........  
Furniture, repairs and replace) ments............  
Janitor and building supplies  
Educational supplies........  
Special department supplies.  
Text books........ .......  
Library....................  
Support of truants..........  
Printing and advertising... ..  
Telephones................  
Freight, express and cartage  
Automobile upkeep.........  
Office equipment...........  
Office expenses.............  
Transportation of pupils.....  
Graduation and lectures.....  
Baths and pool.............  
School hygiene supplies......  
Travelling expenses.........  
Tultion................ ....  
Unclassified................  
Total supplies 
Total salaries and supplies....... 
Less credits:
Tuition. .. ........... .. 
Rental of school halls.......  
Furniture and supplies......  
Refunds................... 
Net expenditure................ *$ 
*This includes  which properly belongs to Vocational Education.

OO
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
TABLE II. ESTIMATES FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER .
Salaries:
Day teachers................ 
Evening teachers...........  
| School hygiene.............  
Superintendent.............  
Secretary to superintendent.  
Clerks.................  
Attendance officers..........  
Schoolhouse agent..........  
Janitors and matrons.......  
Census................ 
Total salaries................... 
Supplies:
Office rental................ 
Furniture equipment........ 
Furniture, repairs and replacements............. 
Janitor and building supplies  
Educational supplies........  
. Special department supplies.  
lite Text books................  
a Library..................-.  
isd Support of truants..........  
Printing and adveritsing..... !
Telephones................. ,
Freight, express and cartage  
Automobile upkeep.........  
. Office equipment...........  
file Office expenses.............  
a“ Transportation of pupils.....  
Me Baths and pool.............  
| Graduation and lectures.....  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
School hygiene supplies...... ,
Unclassified................  
Total supplies.................. 
Total estimates................. 
Less probable receipts...........  
Appropriation requested.........  
TABLE Ill. RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES LISTED
ACCORDING TO PLAN OF MASSACHUSETTS
BUREAU OF STATISTICS.
Receipts.
Tuition of other than state wards 
Dog taxes................  
Sale of old furniture............  
Sale of books and supplies.......  
: Rental of school halls...........  
Refund on office expenses........  
Refund from State for tuition ...  
Refund on graduation...........  
Refund on exhibit..............  
Appropriation by City government......................  
Total receipts.............. 
I-xpenditures. |
Salary of Superintendent........ 
Salaries of clerks (includes 
for Vocational School).......  
Salaries of attendance officers....  
Salary of schoolhouse agent......  
Printing of School Board report  
Office telephones...............  
School telephones...............  

—
, REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
Office equipment...............  
Office expenses (less credit of  
Office rent..........   
Travelling expenses, Committee
and Superintendent.........  
Storage and upkeep of automobile  
School census, salaries...........  
School hygiene, salaries .........  
School hygiene, supplies.........  
Teachers’ salaries: .
High school................  
Elementary schools.........  
Kindergartens..............  
Manual training............  
Other special departments,
(includes  for Vocational School)............  
Evening schools............ |
Text books and supplies (less credit ,
of ............... .
Library...  ...    
Tuition paid ocher schools (less
credit of )..........  
Transportation of pupils.........  
Support of truants..............  
Janitors’ salaries:
High school................  
Gymnasium................  
Elementary schools.........  
Evening High school........  
Evening elementary schools.  
Evening Vocational school  
Office building..............  
Matrons’ salaries:
High school................  
Gymnasium................  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
Elementary schools.........  
) Janitor and building supplies... ..  
Furniture, repairs and replacements (less credit of  
Furniture, new rooms, etc........  
Graduation expenses (less credit of
$  ...  
Miscellaneous printing and advertISINZ..  ... 
Lectures....... .....  
Exhibit  (less credit of ——
Freight, express and cartage.....  
Travelling expenses other than of
Committee and Superintendent...    
Baths and pool.................  
High school office expenses......  
High school emercency room supplies...  ...    .  
Lunch for ninth grade pupils High
School Day................ |
I’xpenditures less credits as
. above.....  ...  
Less credits for tuition and
rental of school halls...... 
Net expenditure.............. 
TABLE IV. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES BY MONTHS.
Salaries Supplies Total
December....... .. 
January............  . 
February...........  . 
March.............  . 

 |
/

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
April...............  . 
May...............  . 
June...............  . 
July...............  
August.............  . 
September..........  . 
October... .........  . 

-November..........  . 
Total for year. ..$ 
Total income for year 
Balance November  
TABLE V. SALARIES IN EFFECT JANUARY .

The established salaries of teachers shall be as follows, according to Rules and  :

Teachers of Grades: I-VI Vil VIII IX
First year................ . 
Second year.............. . 
Third year................ . 
Fourth year..............  
Fifth year................ . 
Sixth year................  
Seventh year...... ...... . 
Fighth year.............. . 
Ninth and sucding years. . 

Kindergartners: Principals Assistants

. First year................  
Second year.............. 
Third year...............  
Fourth year..............  
Fifth year................  
Sixth year................ 
Seventh year............. 
Eighth year.............. and sucding years .
Ninth and sucding years  


: ’
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
High School Teachers, not heads of departments:
Men Women
First year of service......... 
Second year of service.....  
Third year of service....... 
. Fourth year of service..... 
Fifth year of service....... 
Sixth year of service....... 
Seventh year of service.....   
Eighth year of service... ...  
Ninth and sucding years  
Special maximum 
Heads of Departments—High School: Men
First year of service...  ... ee     
Second year of service... ............... -++ +++++.+.,  
Third year of service.... ....       ss  
Fourth year of service... ..........         ss  
Fifth year of service........ .....  -- .-..  
Sixth and sucding years... ................+- +...-.  
Salaries of supervisors and teachers in special departments: Fixed by
School Board.

Principals of Primary Buildings: lor  or  More than
rooms rooms rooms
. First year in charge of school....... 
Second year in charge of school..... 
Third year in charge of school......  
lourth year in charge of school.....  
Fitch year in charge of school.......  
Sixth year in charge of school.......  
Seventh year in charge of school. ...  
Eighth and sucding years........  . 
Principals of Grammar Schools: rooms More than
or less rooms
lirst year in charge of school............. 
Second year in charge of school...........  
Third year in charge of school........   
Fourth year in charge of school.......  
Fifth year in charge of school.........  
Sixth year in charge of school.........  
Seventh year in charge of school... ..  
Eighth year in charge of school.......  
Ninth year in charge of school........ 
Tenth year in charge of school........  
Eleventh year in charge of school.... 
Twelfth and sucding years........  

es
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
Salaries of Director and Teachers in Vocational School (Day and Evening)
fixed by Board of Trustees.
Substitutes:
In High school ..................-................ per day 
In grades...  ...     . per day  
In kindergartens... ..................... .....  ... per day  
Teachers in Evening Schools: High Elementary
Heads of departments (men)...... per evening 
Men teachers................... perevening 
Women teachers................ perevening  
Principals of Evening Elementary Schools:
First year in charge of school.................... perevening 
Second year in charge of school.................. perevening  
Third year in charge of school....................perevening  
Fourth and sucding years..................... perevening  
Janitors and Matrons in Day Schools: See Part VII. page  .
Janitor Service in Evening schools:
Elementary schools............................. perevening 
, High school and Vocational school............... per evening  
TABLE VI. RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES FOR
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL (DAY AND EVENING)
FOR YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER .
Receipts.
Appropriation..................... 
Refund from-State................. .
| Tuition...  ...     
Cash received from work and products  
Credits given on work and products
for other municipal departments  
Cash collected for lectures.......... |
Refund on lunch room account......  
Total receipts................. 
Expenditures.
Secretary. ........   
| Director. ..................  
Teachers......................... |

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
Clerical work... .................. |
Janitor service...............  ... |
General labor..................... |
Office supplies and printing......... ,
Telephones and travelling expenses.. }
Lectures............ ae )
| Books, specimens, etc.......... ... |
School room and shop supplies...... |
Library, periodicals, etc............ .Health, first aid, etc...............  Transportation...............  ...  
Janitor supplies.......... ........  
Replacement of furnicure and equipMent...    
New furniture and equipment.......  
House building account....... .....  Total expenditures......... ... 
Balance November ...  
NOTE—In addition to expenditures in Table VI. the School Board furnished clerical
and janitor service and physical departments supervision amounting to The.
Board of Public Works furnished fuel, light, power and water amounting to .
TABLE VII. COST PER PUPIL BASED ON AVERAGE
MEMBERSHIP. )
Day Schools: total expenses teaching only
High........................  
High (including supervisors and
special teachers)..........  
Grades Kine ,
East Dwight Street........... 
Ielm Street ....... ..........  
Eelmwood..... .............. 
Ewingville...................  
Hamilton Street... .......... 

—
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
Highland....................  
Ingleside....................  
Joseph Metcalf...............  
Kirtland................. ..  
Lawrence....................  
Morgan.................  
Nonotuck Street..............  
Park Street..................  
Sargeant Street...............  
South Chestnut Street.........  
Springdale.............. .... 
West Street........... ......  
West Holyoke......... ......  
William Whiting........... ..  
Evening Schools:
High........ .....  ...  
Lawrence......... ......  
Morgan.................  
West Street..............  
William Whiting... ......  
UNDER (C) ATTENDANCE STATISTICS.
TABLE I. ENROLMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE:
Total Number Number Average
of Teachers Total Number Belonging Attendance Per Cent.
includin Pupils Dec.  for Nov. of AttendPrincipals Enrolled ance
High School...........  
Vocational School......  
: Grades................   
Kindergartens.........  
Special Departments.... :
 

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
TABLE Il. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY AGES AND
CLASSES, DECEMBER Cl
. ass
 Class Total Toral
Boys  
Post Graduate Girls   
Boys I! )
Senior Girls 
Boys  
Junior Girls lj 
Boys gisiail  be
Sophomore Girls 
Boyd  
Freshman Girls! |  
Boys! }  :
Total Girls| 
TABLE Ill. HIGH SCHOOL—AVERAGES AGES
) DECEMBER .
ass Boys Girls Total
Post Graduate yrs. mos. yrs. mos.| yrs. mos.
Senior yrs. yrs. yrs. mos.
. Junior yrs. mos.| yrs. mo. yrs. mos.
Sophomore yrs. mos.|{ yrs. mos.| yrs. mos.
Freshman yrs. yrs. mos.| yrs. mos.
TABLE IV. HIGH SCHOOL—DISTRIBUTION BY CLASSES AND
COURSES, DECEMBER .
os zs |, 
Class wat Es ae j
Sf*|) eo) UF
Boys  ,
Post Graduate’ Girls  Boys!  
Senior Girls}  
Boys! :
Junior Girls) |
Boys;  a
Sophomore Girls)  
Boys; :
Freshman Girls}  
Bors 
Total Girls| 

eer
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
TABLE V. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS GRADUATED
JUNE,  .
Course Boys Girls Total
College Preparatory  
Technical  
Commerical  
General  
Total  
TABLE VI. HIGH SCHOOL—NUMBER OF PUPILS ENTERING
. oO SEPTEMBER,  .
‘ Boys Girls Total
From Highland School.........  
, From Joseph Metcalf School......  
From Lawrence School...........  
From Morgan School............  
| From West Street School......... ,
Others entering.................  
Total...................... NS  
TABLE VII. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—DISTRIBUTION BY ,
GRADES, DECEMBER ,
SpeSchools Kegtn. II III IV cial VI VII VIII [X Total
East Dwight St.  
Elm St.  
Elmwood  
Ewingville  
Hamilton St.  
Highland  
Ingleside  
Joseph Metcalf  
Kirtland  
] Lawrence |
Morgan  
Nonotuck St.  
Park St.  
Sargeant St.  
So. Chestnut St.  
Springdale 
West St.  
West Holyoke  
William Whiting  
. Total  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
TABLE,VII] ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—NUMBER OF PUPILS
GRADUATED JUNE,  .

Boys Girls Total
Highland School  
, joseph Metcalf School ...........  
awrence School................  
Morgan School..................  
West Street School. ...... ......  
Total...ee  
TABLEIX. NUMBER OF PUPILS IN GRADE IX, AND AVERAGE
AGE SEPTEMBER,  .
Boys Girls “Total Average Age’
Highland School........ yrs. mos.
Joseph Metcalf School...... yrs. mos.
awrence School........... go yrs. mos.
Morgan School............. yrs. mos.
West Street School.......... yrs. mos.
Total.................  
TABLE X. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS—SIZE OF CLASSES, DECEMBER .
(Kindergartens not included)
Classes of ,
Classes of two or Total Total
Single Grade more Grades pupils or less............. to pupils inclusive...... |
More than pupils.........  
Total..................  
TABLE XI. EVENING SCHOOLS—FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER,
 .
Number of Average
Teachers Number of Number of Nightly
Schools Including Pupils En- Pupils Be- Attendance
Principal rolled longing
High................... ... 
Lawrence...................  
Morgan............./......  
West Street... ..............  
William Whiting............ 
Total...................  
. ®

a  
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
TABLE XII. NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED DECEMBER
  .
Superintendent of Schools............................. ..  
Secretary to superintendent....... ....... ........-.....  
. Clerks... ce     
Attendance officers...  ...  ek    QD
Schoolhouse agent ................        reese |
Director of school hygiene.........................-......  
‘School physicians  employed mornings only)..............  
——  
In Day Schools: Men Women Total
High School (including principal and clerk)...  
Vocational School (including director and clerk)  
Elementary school principals who have assistANS... 
Elementary school principals in charge of classes  counted under teachers)...........
Ninth grade teachers................... ..  
Eighth grade teachers............ .........  
Seventh grade teachers.....................  
Sixth grade teachers.......................  
Fifth grade teachers.......................  
Fourth grade teachers......................  
Third grade teachers.................... 
Second grade teachers......................  
First grade teachers.......................  
Mixed grade teachers two or more grades tn
@roOM)..... ..  ... ce   es  
Teachers of special classes..................  
Ungraded school teachers...................  
Kindergarten teachers...................  
Supervisors and special teachers.............  
Total number of teachers in day schools —-  
In Evening Schools:
High School. ...........  ...     
Vocational School.................... 
Elementary schools..................+- ..  
Total number of teachers in evening —
schools...  ...  ...      ene  
janitors Seeet     eens  
fatrons..  nes  
—  
Total number of persons employed.......  

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
TABLE XIII. SUMMARY OF ATTENDANCE STATISTICS
. FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE,  .
Is le og |
St fe o'
DAY SCHOOLS sSee BL gs

BE pe Rel  Sh] :

ZELE Za!  me |
High.......................|   
East Dwight Street.........)   
Elm Street..........  ee. ;
Elmwood...................|  ,
Ewingville..................] . ;
Hamilton Street.............|   |”
Highland.............. ....]   
Ingleside...................,  |
Joseph Metcalf............../  .
Kirtland...................|   ,
Lawrence..................   
Morgan... .....|   
Nonotuck Street............| |  
Park Street............. ...  
Sargeant Street..............|  :
So. Chestnut Street.........  ,
Springdale..................,   )
West Street.................|   
West Holyoke...............} lJ] VP  Fy ;
William Whiting............'   

ee

Evening Schools :

High.......................! | (|  

Lawrence...................}  .

Morgan....................} |  

West Street.................; ] .
William Whiting. cs]   

|
|
Ko oO MIMS HHAINIBronrnqQononowtan |
| BSSSSSSSERRIER RH RSC SAT ase |S
 ug OD Sal Ye) ons wo cc INDworenmac okt 
| SOB SSQSSSS"ASSRLESESSESFSRE |S
el ARS ME! ALMQHYESH GCOBLARANTHOMOM H
 OO OD ev. wt CO  fas)
 vt ov)
| a
 om re  RrPumonNn Oran Oat HMOnen Jo)
C SRR Xe RHSSSSARKLGRHRISASASARRIA K
ONO re *: re OD mus OVO hr  OOD OF SS oC
fx CS SSARS RSA AS BERS BASRA HS |S
w || HSE HR ASANSSSRSSASERRABARGO HS M
 QBN rev MMNe SY RRND OR  ma |
| Hoot ad Foor)
. ve CQ
nN  *
O woe   an an

rh oF IDIDIDINMONKNNOW Omid |e &
me SES SS BS eReeeeae ae  
— rk Hash OW ON Re HU  tO +O OOO fe)
 aN SSK SESSRE OAS SNOBDS!S|A
eS ik age So SAQLEBSRESRAYT SERBS RIA
Stl SEalnwiwlanod ww oenad g
Tp) oN a
SE nause ges gusagcsceccauags els
(x)
wt OO &} moo OMONO  oO 
a RR   SRS BRS aes eae ages |e a
v OO Oy wt uf) Sd uO HO  if  UD tre |
on  RSBRSSRE SEE RG SFSLARENSARSRS Oe
via] ARotoats SHS l|AMNaAaKwons Smdwig Wl
a Sear Banw ON et OD eat et et wm |
 Oo COO  S
A, wo  
On Pood did tipi   piri ciriir  PP Pbpb pcp bt bb   bobbi bib: |
a port pit ib io pbb ig   bby itt
AR,  -|
at Ga Sy  
A )obtorirpr iri irir ii iri ii tai ig   bpp  
Sd;
A gj  +
Z Sell. riis sii iB ice ese:
. |;o™m se te 
ey OG: iB   iis eg Sig PB ore:
om te Oo, oO re: VY rf}
{iy Og is:  ae Te COS an ne .
v  BES SG ie By seta iB:
| Rene tify Ia ewe eS te ie tl:
! ae SOEs Dlg ts ges ema gy lg:
one oe Vw —— o™ od  O£U  B) eo
wc tS Pr UO nw  re Le ‘
e eo eed  te GSAnyo -S ..  .
Gegegsees (SES:  SSSEaCs BR:
eS Seb SS os eke (TEL ESS SE CE iw ta:
: estssegc§ -os ‘GEES we:
Oo oe wm +?  OU  .
m UO. Ven OD  cS ves -— .
ggteSrssees YSs SusTeses BCke  
| Wg eoea  Sf pus Ee Gu USE OSB OkoHn eae
er  Ye oa  "O'u  w@O  ry fo) rB) ome 
— (BUSS RCEESS SESS EASE SEs ag Fees Se eS
ERE SRS aoe SL SSG eUU Vee eMC YE aa BBS
SOTMO nM mMnnOtM—  Sc PEED  as a
| la WORE ROCKER AMHD

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
; TABLE II. THE HIGH SCHOOL.
Expenditure Number of
For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ended not includin includin Number Number .
June Special Teachers Principal Enrolled Belonging ‘
   ’
  :
  ;
  ,
TABLE III]. THE NINE GRADES.
Expenditure Number of
For Year for Teachers Teachers Total Average
Ended not including Including Number Number
June Special Teachers Principal Enrolled Belonging
   :
    :
  -:
  ‘
i
| TABLE IV. THE KINDERGARTENS.  
For Year Total Average )
Ended Expenditure Number of Number Number T!
June for Teachers Teachers Enrolled Belonging
  .  .  De
: De
|
TABLE V. THE EVENING HIGH SCHOOL. i,
c bi
uo 
. fs go ostEs
 gee ge SEES TM
ar ge ES $e  cg Vsoys
oc  are oad coe sas 
(  fs Zi BZu) Zm  afase         
li
Ms
We.
. Ni

be
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
TABLE VI. THE EVENING VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
Sb.
v  ar) ve  ve
: Le  SUS Eo  os fe to rae Og 
a KOs Ew SEQ cE og be“y
- oes xb ovitaa 
" tie Zs Acs) tt afacet
we . 
w, —s-  
v     
TABLE VII. THE EVENING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
“ vo 
- zs we sy ess vs Pee
B ef  ez te USE 
: oc mh  l.s
mie ZO BAW Ht aczod
'  
. —-     . 
: TABLE VIII. DISTRIBUTION OF PUPILS BY CLASSES IN HIGH
: SCHOOL AND GRADES.
a ey ote sis dees! Sea
Olw itimtl| oi jéa/esi‘e| e's
. ae SIE S/R s
Dec..  .......  
Dec.,  .......   
Dec.,  .......   
Dec.,  .......  arses sno  Osis 
Dec., ..... 
, TABLE IX. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE
EVENING SCHOOLS.  !
oT Dec.  Dec.  Dec. 
SCHOOLS Be      ,
we Ze"  Bea
High....................| |”  
. Lawrence................  
Morgan.................;   
West Street..............|  :
William Whiting..........) |  
Totals...............  
|

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
TABLE X. ENROLMENT AND AVERAGE ATTENDANCE
DAY SCHOOLS.
 Dec. Dec.  Dec. 
SCHOOLS  Sy $e fo, oe “aa
Gee faaae
High...................-|    
ans Ne piaeae Mee Siig  
East Dwight Street.......| 
Elm Street...............|   
Blmw d: o.cacasaacces|   
Ewingville...............| ] 
Hamilton Street..........|   
Highland................| ] 
IngleNIde. sw Siarveriaias)  Bee  
Joseph Metcalf...........|   
irtland.................| 
Lawrence.............-..|   
Morgan...........-...-.|   
Nonotuck Street.........| 
Park Street..............|  
Sargeant Street...........|   
So. Chestnut Street.......|  
Springdale...............| 
West Street..............|   
West Holvoke............| ] 
William Whiting..........|   
Totals...............|    
TABLE XI. AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUPILS PER TEACHER IN
THE GRADES BASED UPON AVERAGE NUMBER
BELONGING FOR MONTH OF NOVEMBER.
 
Average number of pupils per teacher, inCliging DHINC IPAs  sn cecadgen Cao Bl  
Average number of pupils per teacher, not
including principals who have assistants  

ee
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS. |
UNDER (E) MISCELLANEOUS.
 TABLE I. RESIGNATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS
- DAY SCHOOL TEACHERS.
: Resignations.
) Mrs. Helen Thompson-Herrick Clara L. O’Connor
» Anna M. Laporte Nellie A. Perry
i Claire E. Nugent Madeline L. Slade
  Appointments.
  Helen R. Connor Mabel B. Howes
- Thos. J. Coonan Bernice Mahoney
 Helen J. Delaney Lillian B. Maxfield
" Elizabeth B. Donahue Frances M. Pattison ,
. Anna C. Falvey Jeannette F. Sears
r Mary L. Herbert Ethe M. Shambaugh
- Ruth Yoerg
‘ Leave of Absence.
  Mary H. Batchelder Mary E. Lawley
Helen M. Cronin Fsther A. MacDonnell
Mary A. Donoghue Mary T. O’Donnell
: Daniel J. Kelly Helen H. Ramage
Lucy B. Ramage
- TABLE II. RATES OF TUITION FOR NON-RESIDENT PUPILS.
i High School  per year
 Flementary Schools per year
Day Vocational School per year
Evening Vocational School per year
\
TABLE III. SCHOOL CHILDREN’S AID FUND.
Year Amount Year Amount Year Amount
;    
.  
: :
    
| Total offerings to date 
The above table shows the yearly Thanksgiving offering of the children of the public schools. The money is spent for clothing for needy
children.
ip

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
TABLE IV. VALUE OF ART AND SCIENCE COLLECTIONS.
. Number of
Volumes in
Reference
Schools Art Science Library
High...  ...      
Flm Street................. ..  
Elmwood................- 
Hamilton Street...............  
Highland..... ...............  
Ingleside.....................  
Joseph Metcalf...............  
Kirtland... .............  
Lawrence.................. -.  
Morgan...........       
Nonotuck Street..............  
Sargeant Street...............  
South Chestnut Street.........  
Springdale.................  
West Street..............  
West Holyoke................  
TABLE V. REPORT OF SCHOOL SAVINGS BANKS, JANUARY  ],  .
Amount
Amount Withdrawn
Schools Deposited from Collector
East Dwight Street..................... 
Flm Street... ... ...  ...     
Elmwood.........  cc       
Ewingville......... ..    ,  
Hamilton Street.............. ..... 
Highland...............  ...  
Ingleside. .......  ...       
Joseph Metcalf.................... . 
Kirtland...  ...  ... 
Lawrence............    eens  
Morgan...  ... een  
Nonotuck Street................ 
Park Strect........... ...     ees  
Sargeant Street... .....  ...      
' South Chestnut Street.....................  
Springdale...  ...   ees  
West Street...  ...ee  
William Whiting................. ........  
Total...ee  
Number of children depositors................ 
Number of interest accounts.................. 

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
ee
A Tribute to the Memory of
ELLA GRACE PROUTY
The Holyoke School Board has learned with deep regret of the death
on January  th,  of MISS ELLA GRACE PROUTY, for nearly
four years and half teacher in the fourth grade in the Park Street School.
Graduated from the Holyoke High School in  the State Normal
School at Westfield in  and with four years of public school teaching
experience in several towns in Massachusetts and Connecticut, she came
to the Holyoke schools with degree of preparation calculated to make her
an efficient teacher according to the generally accepted meaning of that
term. And adding to this equipment distinctly Christian view of life
and gentle, kindly sympathy, no doubt partly inspired by the fact that
she herself was never physically robust, she took personal interest in the
entire welfare of her pupils individually, even to the point of being frequent visitor in their homes. Thus there sprang up warm attachment
for her among all those with whom as teacher she had any contact,
a feeling of regard which was clearly manifest on the day when she was 
laid to rest. In the words of the Superintendent of Schools, ‘She was
everything school teacher should be.’”” What more could one wish to
have said of her?
The School Board, keenly sensible of the loss the teaching force has
sustained by her removal, and desiring to express in some permanent
form their appreciation of her life and services, orders that this tribute be
spread upon the records of the Board, and instructs the Secretary to send
copies of the same to the members of her family.
FRANKLIN KNIGHT,
AUGUST BAUSH,
DENNIS F. LYNCH,
Committee on Resolutions.
ee
‘

PART V.
DEPARTMENT OF SCHOOL HYGIENE.
To the Superintendent of Schools:

The Director of School Hygien  submits herewith his
second annual report. It is presented in four sections as follows:

Section —A Resume of  .

Section II —Regulations of this Department.
Section III —Forms Used.

Section IV. —Recommendations.

For purposes of comparison, it has seemed best to prepare
my report in manner similar to that of last year. The first
annual report of this department was devoted largely to setting forth of the policies which seemed vital to the proper
development of Health department in the schools. In preparing my report to you covering the year  have chosen
to dwell at some length upon the more important achievements
of the Hygiene department which have been the direct results
of carefully carrying out these policies. comparison of the
report of the Special Survey Committee on Health and Physical Education with this report affords ample basis for the
statement that most encouraging results have attended the
correlation of all matters pertaining to the health of teacher
and pupil, under special department of school Hygiene. I
can see no insurmountable barrier save one to the ultimat  attainment of all of our plans for building up and conserving the
vigor of Holyoke school children. Itis necessary first however
that our citizens come to realization of the fact that of all
our great national resources the most valuable is the health of
the people. When we, as city, shall treasure the health of
the child as the most valuable asset of this capital of national
vigor, every obstacle to the advancement of propaganda of
health education in the school will be removed. Preventive

—y

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
medicine has taught us that within certain limits, much less
restricted than formerly, health for the children of this or any
other city may be purchased by the community, if it will but
assume the financial obligation and co-operate with those in
charge of this all-important task.

  .
SECTION I.— RESUME.

Organization. The Director of School Hygiene bent his
energies last year towards the inauguration of an efficient
system of medical supervision in the schools. ‘This appeared
to be the logical beginning. The extent to which this system
has been carried out may be noted under the special report on
medical superivsion in the schools. Improvement in the organization of thedivision of Physical Education has been marked
during the past year. The appointmerts of Miss Efhe Shambaugh, Physical Director for High School Girls, Miss Ruth
Yoerg, Assistant Physical Director, and Miss Margaret McCaffery, Instructor of Swimming, assisted very materially in
the extension of plans for more active department of Physical
Education. These additions to the teaching staff have enabled
the department of School Hygiene to assume to greater extent,
responsibility in all matters pertaining to the health of the
teacher and the pupil. The problems of health supervision
in the class-room, on the athletic field, in the gymnasium and
swimming pool are being studied and correlated; the theoretical with the practical. Health talks are being given by the
school physicians in the class-rooms whenever they se  conditions which will illustrate some point in hygiene. Definite work :
in the principles of hygienic living is givenas part of the day’s
program, and popular talks on subjects closzly related to the
health of the child in the school and at home have been given
by the Director, particularly before Parent—Teacher Clubs.
A spirit of co-operation exists between the Hygiene Depart
ment and the Board of Health and other organizations seekin
to raise the standards of community and personal hygiene
in this city. growing confidence on the part of the public
in this work, resulting in frequent consultations with the staff

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
physicians concerning the health problems connected with the IN g
school life, has greatly enlarged the sphere of the new Hygiene Den
Department asa responsible organization of the Board of Edu- Rere
cation. The methods by which this organization has been
effected are outlined in Section ITI. p,
: .Medical Supervision. Regular medical inspection is given in all the public and parochial schools of the city. All pupils, “|
over in number, are seen at least once week by one of a“
the school physicians. This work has been done (except at .
the time of the epidemic of infantile paralysis last fall when the
staff was considerably enlarged) by two full time physicians, .
the Director of Hygiene and Dr. Harold E. Miner, and two part 
time physicians, Dr. E. P. Hand and Dr. Honoria K. Shine. Dr. na
Shine was assigned to the High School girls in th? public and a
parochial schools. The regulations governing the medical in- a
spection in our schools contain much which believe will prove “ee
of interest to the public and are to be found in Section II. of ine
this report. ‘erred
A determined effort was made this year to impress upon Vac
parents the great importance of prompt attention to the noti- tar,
fication cards sent home relative to defective eyesight and hear- \
ing. An act of the Massachusetts Legislature requires that the Fs
each pupil’s sight and hearing shall be tested once year. en
It is further required that the parents of all pupils found to be Ar
defective in sight or hearing shall be notified. Formerly these thi
notifications were taken home by the pupils and it is likely tia
that in many cases the parents never received the notice. The ae "
suggestion was made to send the notification cards through he .
the mail, and to enclose detailed statement of the reasons shes
actuating the notice. The gravity of untreated cases of de- Lae
fective sight and hearing was explained, some suggestions be  
were offered for the benefit of parents who might not feel that a
they could meet th  expense of consulting an oculist, and an a
invitation to consult the school physicians during office hours es
was extended to parents who desired to discuss the matter Ba
more in detail. The responses were noticeable and gratifying. Ny
Incidentally, the circulars promise to serve as an entering wedge fp
Sanh ,

aN
]
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
in campaign for improved eye and ear hygiene in many homes.
Definite data will be available within short time. There
were notices sent out.
The vaccination law has been well carried out this year.
Parents have co-operated with the school physicians by granting permission in very many cases to the physicians to vaccinate in the schools. The method used to secure the parent’s
co-operation in this important state regulation is described in
Section III. The Board of Health furnished the vaccine, ,
which was secured fresh from the laboratory in Washington.
: As result of the campaign in vaccinating, very fair per, centage of our school population has been rendered immune
, to smallpox. Considerable undesirable attention has recently
: been directed toward several cities because of the presence
: there of smallpox and the discovery that there were many :
school children who had never been vaccinated. You are referred to Section II. for discussion of the technic employed
in vaccination. There were over vaccinations during last
year.
An experiment in hygiene, which has been carried out in
: the Ewingville School under the direction of the Principal, Miss
: Mary A. Lynn, has occasioned considerable favorable comment.
All pencils used by the pupils were dipped in solution of sul| pho-napthol for short time each day. Pupils were cautioned
. not to put the pencils in their mouths. Doubtless some forgot the admonition and found the taste so unpleasant that they
did not care to continue the habit. The majority were so impressed by the ceremony of sterilizing their pencils that the |
habit of continually putting the pencils in their mouths was
broken. The solution used was comparatively weak and no
)  possible danger could have come from getting the solution
: in the mouth. Its efficacy depended largely on the fact that
it was medicine and had disagreeable odor and taste. Pencils in use for six weeks showed hardly atoothmark. Disease
is so frequently spread from putting foreign articles in the
mouth that anything which teaches in such practical way


  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
a lesson in mouth hygiene is worthy of more extended trial
in other schools.
Several principals have been supplied with clinical thermometers during the past year. Instruction in the use of the
thermometer, methods of properly cleansing it, and the indications for its use were carefully explained and trial tests given
to see that accuracy in the readings was secured. It has
been evident for some time that principals should have some
means of knowing whether pupil who complained of feeling
) sick in school was really sick or merely shamming. The pres| ence of fever in pupil is fair indication that the pupil should
be sent home or seen by the school physician at once. It is
of course perfectly evident that the school physicians cannot at
all times see promptly every case referred to them by principals.
: Any means of selecting the cases which require physician’s
services will greatly assist in making the best possible use of the
school physician’s time, which is too valuable to waste on unimportant cases. It is too soon in the experiment to make any
definite conclusions as to the practicability of the plan, but so
far have found no reason to change my opinion that in the
proper use of the thermometer by the principals we have a
valuable means of selecting the urgent cases for physician’s
attention. This is particularly true of the schools situated
at distance from the office. The teacher at West Holyoke,
for example, is able to tell pretty definitely whether it is necessary for the physician to make the trip out there at once, or
sufficient for the physician to examine the case on some regu- |
lar inspection. '
Our office files contain over six hundred duplicate record
cards of notices sent home to parents by the school physicians.
These records of course represent but asmall part of the number
of cases given special examination by the school physicians
who subsequently gave the pupil directions regarding the .
condition present. An effort was made to secure records of
conditions found particularly in the lower grades and demanding medical attention. From the records kept we have secured considerable material for the school nurses to follow up ,

Ey
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
as soon as they are appointed to our staff. There isa very great
need of school nurses in connection with our work, and until
that division of medical supervision is organized, Holyoke can
hardly claim complete system of health supervision in its
schools. The question of inaugurating the services of trained
nurse in the schools is considered in Section IV. of this report.
It is interesting to note that most of the agitation for improved methods of ventilation and heating in the class-room
has come from parents who have found unsatisfactory conditions in rooms which they have visited. These complaints
have reached this office and, as result, we have made ventilation and temperature survey of all the public schools of the
city. The conditions found are as follows: Number of rooms
with t:mperature between and between and ;
between and between and between and
  Our regulations require that the room temperature
be between and degrees Farhenheit. However, the problem of ventilation and heating is exdingly complex in the
class-room where children from so many different families gather. Probably in but few of the homes represented do similar
conditions of ventilation and heating prevail. While some children are accustomed to plenty of fresh air and tonic temperature, the larger proportion of school children come from homes
where fresh air is comparative stranger and the rooms are
overheated. Children accustomed to such conditions of “Indoor Tropics” at home complain to their parents about the
school room being cold whenin reality the temperature th re may
be standard. Unfortunately, these children are in the majority
and often influence the teacher to allow the temperature of the
room to exd the proper degree. ‘This, of course has pernicious effect on children who come from homes where the importance of invigorating fresh air is understood. am convinced that there is very urgent need of “more fresh air in
our curriculm” and have directed attention to the methods
which other cities  mploy to secure more healthful and invigorating atmosphere in the schools. discussion of the
‘ “open-air school” is to be found in Section IV.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Division of Epidemiology. Through the co-operation of |
the Board of Health, the School Hygiene department is able |
to undertake the control and management of contagious dis- |
eases in the schools. The Board of Health reports every contagious disease to this office. Immediately on receipt of the |
notice of contagious disease in any pupil who has recently ,
attended school, one of the school physicians is sent to the school |
to make careful examination of the case. In brief, |
history of the case is secured, the names of pupils attending |
school who, because of special conditions, may have been ex- :
posed to the disease are recorded, (these pupils are usually in- |
timate friends of the pupil or sit close to him in school), and |

: census is taken in the class-room to find out how many pupils |
have had the disease in question. Throats are examined, |
temperatures taken and list of pupils subsequently absent
from school for unknown causes is prepared by the teacher. |
If conditions warrant, the room is visited twice day by a
physician. Occasionally the physician devotes the greater .
part of the day in attendance at the school. If the history of :
the case warrants it, the janitor is instructed to wash the tops .
of all desks, the backs of chairs, and all other furniture in the :
room likely to have been touched by infected hands. In addition to these prophylactic measures, the Board of Health
fumigates the class-room, if necessary. There is growing )
tendency, well substantiated by experience and bacteriological ;
tests, to place more emphasis upon proper airing of the room, use of soap, hot water and lye, than upon disinfection by fumigation. 'To quote an eminent hygienist: “We attempt to
destroy the germs of contagious diseases by fumigating the classroom, whereas the germs which we fear are already hidden
away in the recesses of the pupils’ mouths and noses.”” There
have been cases of contagious disease which have necessi- |
tated special work on the part of the school physicians. In .
many of these instances, it was considered advisable to give :
the rooms thorough cleansing. Fumigation of the rooms was
practiced by the Board of Health in several cases. In but four ;
cases of contagious disease in the schools was it considered  

ON
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  

necessary to close any of the class-rooms. In these special

  instances popular opinion was the deciding factor rather than

- medical judgment. Our experiences have been that the closing of school can have but little result on the spread of con: tagious disease because children attend school but five hours in

: the day out of ten or twelve hours in which they are mingling
with other children. If schools are closed, children continue
to mingle with other children under no supervision at all, and

; presumably expose each other fully as much as in the class-room.

There are, of course, exceptions to this general rule. We are

justified in ordering class-rooms closed in case of unusual disease conditions because the group of children exposed to a
contagious disease is in the one case comparatively small

. neighborhood group, whereas in the other instance the group
is enlarged many times by the additional groups of children
from other districts who gather in the class-room.

The epidemic of infantile paralysis last fall called forth the
best endeavors of this department. The Board of Health
offered us the assistance of three physicians and three nurses.

- ‘The schools were efficiently inspected by staff of seven physicians and three nurses in all, the activities of whom were |
directed by this division of the Hygiene department. Medi‘cal inspection was extended to all the public and parochial day
schools, the night schools and the Vocational School. Several
thousand health census blanks were distributed in the schools
and filled out by the pupils. As the pupils came before the
physician the card answering several important questions was
given to the doctor. The material which was secured in this
way proved to be of much value to the physician in expedit- |
ing his work.
A step forward has been taken in regard to the keeping
of city maps showing the location of contagious diseases.

/ Formerly it was the custom to indicate on the map the presence |
of contagious disease by inserting pin of proper color to indicate the specific disease. Such map indicates in general 
way where the disease is located but tells absolutely nothing
about the particulars of the case, either as to date of quaran
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

tine, school history, the tenement conditions or date of the
termination of the case. It is customary to remove the pin
when disease is released and, unless the memory of the per- |
son in charge of the map is very retentive, the pin hole left on |
the map may mean an old record of any one of several diseases. |
A marked improvement in methods of recording graphically ,
the location of contagious diseases in school districts has re- ,
sulted from keeping separate map for each of the major
contagious diseases and giving every case number, which is |
indicated on the map at the site of the pin. This number |

corresponds to case record of the disease on file. The relationship of different cases of disease can be readily traced be- |
cause each case has record of the important facts dealing with )
that particular case. :
| The School Board should, at some time in the-near future, :
request conference with the Board of Health relative to the :
possible revision of that part of the Sanitary Code which governs the management of contagious diseases. In the light of
recent steps taken by the Board of Health in other cities, the
question of changing the regulations now in force for several
years may well be considered. The co-operation of the Board
of Health has been such that think we may feel free to ask '
their consideration of revision of the Code. Such changes )
would effect reduction in the number of school children
quarantined for contagious diseases without (I think it is fair
to say this from the study of health statistics in this city) re- :
sulting in corresponding increase in the city’s disease index. :
Hygiene and Sanitation. Dr. Charles Bolduan, Director :
of the Division of Public Health Education in New York City,
says that the most powerful weapon at the disposal of health :
authorities is public health education. II] health is now being ;
looked upon as great economic waste. Insurance companies "
are appointing doctors and nurses who make it their busi- :
ness to keep the policy-holders in good health. In the indus- :
trial world it is consided good business to provide free medical *
attendance and modern sanitary conditions for the employees.
During the school period (the most plastic period in person's ‘

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
life) the School Board becomes the responsible agent for humanity in the task of protecting from injury and ill health
those upon whom the future of the world depends. The boy
or girl who attends school under hygienic conditions is able
to do more work, and better work. In the light of these facts
I think that we may well agree with Dr. L. W. Rapeer that
Hygiene should be regarded as the most important subject
in the curriculum. It is the purpose of this part of my report
to outline the status of Hygiene as taught and practiced in the
Holyoke public schools.

The course of study in Hygiene which has been outlined
for use in our schools is an outgrowth of course of lectures
given to normal school students on the Pedagogy of Hygiene,
and supplemented by experimental work in the practical
application of the lessons which has been given during the past
year. An effort has been made to present to the teacher
some adequate idea of the abundance of material available for

class work in Hygiene. The importance of instruction in Hygiene is so great that it is impossible to present the subject

in the time allotted it in the day’s program. think that itisa

fair criticism of our methods to say that we have failed in the
past years to make the subjects of Hygiene and Sanitation
anything but isolated subjects in the curriculum, something to

be studied at specified time and then put aside until the next
day. To teach hygienic habits effectively to the pupil, it  s
necessary that the principles of good living shall command
almost the constant thought of the teacher and child. We
have attempted to approach such an ideal by outlining for

the teacher some of the many methods there are for holding a

 pupil’s interest in good health and proper environment. Nearly
everything taught during the day can be related to Hygiene.

It is possible to relate problems in Arithmetic to Hygiene.
History is full of incidents illustrating hygienic facts. Wars
teach sanitation and suggest review lessons in the treatment

of accidents. Fables, folk tales, fairy stories suggest to the
teacher frequent opportunity to impress some of the lessons

in Hygiene upon the child. Composition work, Drawing and

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
Geography are all replete with opportunities for studying |
Hygiene from new viewpoint. The study of Civics is incom- |
plete without stressing community hygiene and sanitation, |
while Nature Study at once directs our attention to the rela- |
tion of insects and other forms of life to our health. Presented :
in such manner, the subject of Hygiene becomes of practical |
interest to the pupil while in school and of practical service :
to him in later life. :
In addition to the outlines in Hygiene, considerable ma- :
terial has been collected for the use of the teacher in giving |
instruction in the prevention of accidents. The lessons are
sufficiently graded to make the progression from year to year
aneasy matter. The time seems opportune to consider printing
these outlines in such form that they will be easily available
for all the teachers in our schools.
Last year the lectures in Preventive Medicine and First
Aid, which were given to the freshman and sophomore classes
in the High School, were presented as separate course, and
partook largely of the nature of popular health talks with First
Aid demonstrations. plan is under consideration to make
the Hygiene course part of the General Science course, required of all first year students. Such an arrangement would
facilitate the teaching of Hygiene and enable the teacher to
require much the same preparation in this subject as is given
to other subjects.
The “health talk”  an important feature of the physician’s work intheclass-rooms. The effect of his talk is considerably enhanced by the use of illustrations on the blackboard.
The greater the number of different ways in which the pupil
uses his special senses in following lesson in Hygiene, the greater the reaction in his mind. group of suitable talks arranged
for use in the lower grades is being collected. The list includes
such suggestive titles as ““The Story of the Snarlies’’, ‘“General
D. K. Germ and his Adventures with Tooth Brush”, and ‘“‘How
O. K. Health Won Victory over Disease.”
The methods employed to keep the swimming pool in a
sanitary condition may be of interest at this point. One of the

a
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
| essentials of swimming pool is that the water shall be clear
: enough to show the presence of objects on the bottom, thereby
reducing the danger of drowning. City water is not clear.
; enough for such purposes, so filtering plant is used to clarify
. the water and purify it as well. There are three filters in the
High School Natatorium. One is washed every day. The
; filters hold back all the macroscopic and microscopic organic
material in the water as it passes through and recirculates into
the pool again, having been purified, warmed to proper temper, ature, and chemically treated. In addition, the pool receives
a thorough cleansing every two weeks, at which time all the
water is drawn off.

Physical Education. The two major aims of physical
training in our public schools are health and motor education.
In both of these fields encouraging progress has been made dur| ing the past year. Definite policies have been worked out
in all branches of physical training and are proving to be well

, founded. The following divisions of Physical Education come
under the direct control of the department of School Hygiene:
Physical training in the elementary and grammar schools; in
the High School; in the Evening High School; the use of the
gymnasium by public classes during the evening,. and all school
and public swimming classes. The growth of interest in physical education has been unparalleled in the history of education. The necessity for proper supervision is therefore of
greatest importance..

Training of muscular control begins in the kindergarten
under the direction of the kindergartner. Children are taught
exercises which develop poise and co-ordination of muscles.
The teacher tells the Mother Goose Rhymes to the class, after :
which the children dramatize the story, acting the part out
in way planned to give training in muscular judgment. “Jack
be Nimble’, “Little Miss Muffet’, and “Hickory Dickory
Dock” afford much pleasure and exercise to the children. ‘“The
Old Clock Maker’ is one of the popular imagination plays.

Supervision of the work in the grades is under the direction
of Mr. Louis K. Appel, who has worked out an excellent course

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
of study in Physical Education for the class-room. The class- ,
room exercises consist of graded lessons for each year and .
 progression from year to year. The pupils of grade one are |
given formal gymnastic lessons, song games, imagination plays,
and simple folk dances. Games suitable to the class-room
complete the program. Proper ventilation of the room during
the exercises is secured by monitor system. The time allotted to physical training is fifteen minutes day. Faulty
postures are remedied to some extent, the abdominal muscles
are exercised with beneficial result upon digestion, the circulation of the blood throughout the body is equalized, opportunity |
is afforded for the introduction of fresh air into the room without danger of “‘colds”’ in susceptible children, and the recreative
aspects of enjoyable exercise are each so important that it seems
urgent that more time for physical training in the class-room
be given. )
The boys’ Efficiency Test, which is held each year for
boys above the fourth grade, has proven valuable means of
interesting large number of boys in athletics of extensive type.
The events contested are the dashes, broad jump and chinning. Juniors receive bronze buttons; seniors, silver. The
button is arranged for the lapel and has for design the figure
of an athlete ready for the dash. The words “Efficiency, Holyoke” surround the figure. Junior and senior silver cups
were presented to the schools attaining the highest percentage
in their division. The annual Field Day in June is fitting |
climax to the year’s work. Boys are divided into four classes, '
according to their weight. This arrangement insures each
boy fair chance in competition and always results in close
contests and large entry list. The meet last year was the
largest affair yet held, and yet through the assistance of all
members of the School Hygiene department, we were abletorun
the contest off in record time. This co-operation has been absent in previous years, but, with the centralizing of all divisions
of physical education under one department, the full strength
was brought to the assistance of the Director of Physical Training.
The events consisted of dashes, broad and high jumps, shot—w
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
: put and relays. Soccer and baseball leagues were formed in
: the grammar schools during the respective seasons. Mr. Finn
: officiated at all games. The supplies were furnished by the
  School Board. Prize cups were presented to the schools
: winning the league championship.
- “The work in Physical Training in the grades has been conducted |
: along the plan outlined in preceding years. The major amount of the
Le time is given to the gymnastic lesson. Satisfactory progress has characterized this branch of the work; the execution has been better, which shows
. its effect upon the hygienic, physiological, corrective and rhythmical phases ,
of the lesson. On days when the Supervisor visits the building, and where
- adequate space and piano are available, the work is taken through to
. music, which increases the beneficial effects through increased stimulation.
- In the first and second grades, more dances, industrial and nature .
. plays have been added to the course. The activities are numerous and
varied, and the course of study is becoming constantly enlarged.
: The school room games still afford pleasure. There has been an improvement in the skill of the pupils. Carefulness is constantly emphasized and the danger element has been minimized. Nearly all the games
; can be played outdoors and in schools having large outdoor playgrounds
  efforts are being made to play the games in the open.
An innovation has been made to the regular course by the intro- duction of the folk dances. The children enjoy them and after they are
. once learned the dances are done with enthusiasm and enjoyment.” (Ex: tract from the report of Mr. Louis K. Appel, Director of Physical Educa; tion in the Grades.)
: The policy directing Physical Education for boys in the
: High School is based upon the present requirements of two years
  compulsory attendance in classes for physical training. These
: classes meet twice week and consist in general of marching,
, calisthenics, apparatus work, games, athletics and aquatics.
Physical and medical examinations are given to all members
 of classes taking required work. Candidates for athletic |
, teams must pass physical examination before they are allowed
; to compete in school contests. Inter-class teams, swimming
and inter-school athletics receive their proper attention. 
: Work for the group, rather than for the individual, assumes
: first importance. The School Board has placed the work of
. this division of Physical Education in the hands of trained
: physical directors, who are required to expend the greater part

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

of their time to the work of directing classes in the gymnasium
and on the field fromthe group point of view, rather than as
coach of the specialized few.

“Physical Training for boys at the High School during the past year
has been carried on with more enthusiasm than ever before. Gymnasium
cla es are the main feature of the work, and no less than boys were enrolled in classes which reported twice week. The gymnasium work consisted of calisthenics, wand and dumb-bell drills, apparatus, marching,
recreative and competitive games.

The swimming pool offers another opportunity for exercise. Instruction in swimming is given during the morning classes.

Athletics are another form of exercise and on the call for candidates
during the year, many students report for various sports. Strict scholastic
rules govern the make-up of school teams and during the past year several
good athletes were prevented from competing because of scholastic difhculty. .

Interclass schedules are arranged and games are played between
classes in basket ball, baseball and track. Basket ball leagues are formed
for freshmen and sophomores and during the winter term last year  
boys were playing each Monday afternoon.” (From the report of Mr.
Daniel J. Kelly, Physical Director for High School Boys.)

Undoubtedly the greatest growth in any division of the
department of Physical Education has taken place in the girl’s
division. Under the direction of Miss Shambaugh, assisted
by Miss Yoerg and Miss McCaffery, reorganization of the
department has been effected and the work placed upon high
plane of efficiency. The growth of the girls’ division of Physical Education is most encouraging because of the importance
which we attach to physical efficiency in the present day girl.
It is my opinion that Holyoke should take greatest pride,
not in the success of the athletic teams which represent the High
school, worthy as they are of our staunch support, but in the
degree of success which attends the plan to give the girls in
the High School rational healthful course in Physical Education.

“The work of the girls’ department of Physical Education is either
(a) compulsory or (b) elective. The compulsory training covers two years
for two hours each week, and is subdivided into gymnastic training and
swimming. The work in the gymnasium includes marching tactics, free
hand calisthenics, drills, apparatus and games of low organization. Fresha
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
men use dumb-bells for drill purposes; sophomores use wands; and advanced classes use Indian clubs. Instruction in swimming is given freshman
and sophomore classes during school hours and in addition practice
period is allowed on Thursday and Friday afternoons. At the close of
every five weeks practical examination is given on the work covered
in the gymnasium and every pupil is graded in both gymnastics and swimming.

The elective work includes advanced classes in gymnastics, )
junior and senior swimming, and athletics. The advanced classes have
marching tactics, free hand calisthenics and special attention is given to
Indian club drills and folk dancing. Juniors and seniors who elect swimming report at specified hours on Thursday and Friday afternoons.

The program for girls’ athletics is volley ball in the fall, basket
ball in the winter, and playground baseball and tennis in the spring.
Arrangements were made whereby the girls practiced volley ball out of
doors. would suggest that similar arrangements be made for baseball
and tennis inthe spring. Inter-class games are played at the end of several

) months of practice.

Attendance records show the following number used the gymnasium
facilities: (a) Compulsory work in freshman classes,  compulsory
work in sophomore classes,  (b) elective work—advanced gymnastics,
 junior and senior swimming,  athletics—volley ball  basket ball,

,  The apparent discrepancy in the High School first and second year
registration and gymnastic registration may be accounted for by the fact
that students presenting doctors’ certificates of ill health are excused, and
that girls who have not completed the academic work necessary to be classi, fied as juniors have nevertheless finished the required two years of physi. cal training.

Medical examination by Dr. Shine of all girls whether registered
in physical training or not consisted of heart examination and restriction from swimming in case of skin eruptions and from violent exercise
in cases of rapid pulses. Those girls taking regular work in the gymnasium have also had their height and weight taken as indicative of their general physical condition.

The extension department offers the advantages of the gymnasium
and pool to the ninth grade girls for two hours on Saturday morning, and
to women in the Evening High School on Sacurday evening. The average
attendance in the morning class to date is  and in the evening class  .

Schoolroom gymnastics are conducted during the cool weather at the
beginning of the second, third and fifth periods. The exercises are simple
and take only one minute. With the windows open, the exercises in the
fresh air afford relaxation and counteract the stooped position over the desk.
Members of the gymnasium classes act as leaders in the class-room.

\ REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

A physical education magazine has been placed on file in the High
School Library through the co-operation of the Librarian. From time to
time pupils are asked to report before their gymnasium class on articles
of particular interest. All students are encouraged to read this magazine
and to compare the work of our department with the work being done
in the large high schools of New York, and Philadelphia. We feel that
the equipment and instruction in the Holyoke High School Gymnasium
is equally good. Believing that good physique is of practical and essential value, the girls’ department aims to meet the increasing demand
that young women should stand and look straight as well as think straight.”
(Report of Miss Effe Shambaugh, Director of Physical Education in the
Girls’ Department of the High School.)

A new feature of the past year’s activities has been the
extension work which is offered to students of the ninth grades,
the Evening High School and Evening Vocational School.
The gymnasium and swimming classes which were held on Saturday evenings were well attended, averaging over for the
women and over for the men. Most of the instruction was
given voluntarily by members of the Hygiene department.
The boys and girls of the ninth grades were accorded similar
privileges on Saturday mornings. The use of the gymnasium
and swimming pool has been so popular that some plan for
making this privilege an important part of the work next year
should be formulated. During the last month the gymnasium
has been in use every night during the week and practically
all of the day. |

The approximate number of people using the gymnasium |
each week is: High School boys,  High School girls,  ;
Vocational School boys,  Grammar School boys,  Grammar School girls,  Evening High School men,  Evening
High School women,  athletic organizations, five nights a
weck.

During the winter session there were classes using the
swimming pool. These classes were divided as follows: Classes
for High School boys,  High School girls,  Vocational
School,  Grammar School boys,  Grammar School girls,  ;
Teachers,  public classes for women,  public classes for
men,  Evening High School men,  Evening High School

——eREPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
women,  The total number of people using the pool each
week exded  .

An examination was offered last fall for purposes of forming
an eligible list of candidates for positions as teachers of swimming. ‘The examination consisted in part of demonstration

: of artificial respiration, diving for form, ability to support a
person in the water for two minutes, and ability to teach the
ordinary strokes in swimming. ‘There are two teachers assigned to most of the classes so that the danger of accident

, may be minimized.

Playgrounds. Holyoke has put PLAYTIME into the
school curriculum, but not PLAY. This is not criticism directed at our schools alone. It is largely condition present
in the great majority of school systems. Time for recess is
given in both the morning and afternoon sessions. An additional amount of school time (fifteen minutes per day) is devoted to formal physical training in the class-rooms, but organized effort to supervise the play of the pupils is almost a
negligible factor. If it is true even to the slightest extent that
“‘the boy without playground is father to the man without
a job,” we may rightfully hesitate to condemn too severely :
Dr. Woods Hutchinson for the statement, “Better playground
without school than school without playground.” In
the present day use of the term playground presupposes organized play with all the attendant benefits.

An effort to inaugurate organized playground work at
recess has been made recently at the Kirtland School. The results have been most encouraging,—remarkable in fact because
of the limited equipment on the playground and an inauspicious start late in the fall season. schedule was prepared
which assigned the upper grades to the playground for definite work three times week. ‘The schedule was so arranged
that one of the periods came at recess time, one twenty minutes before the regular recess hour, and one for period lasting
twenty. minutes after recess. In this way the playground was
free for the exclusive use of each grade three times during the
week. The activities which were supervised were basket

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

ball and volley ball, the boys of the class playing one game
while the girls were engaged inthe other. The teacher in charge
of the class-room assigned to the playground was made responsible for the supervision of the playground schedule. This
is important because it has beneficial effect on the teacher’s
health and helps in the solution of problems of discipline in the
class-room as well as on the playground. The most successful
teacher, at least from the standpoint of personal influence on
the lives of the pupils, is she who takes an active interest in
the play life of the children.

The Board of Public Works made the arrangements for
the two play courts and the School Department furnished the
supplies. Plans are under way for further extending the playground work during the spring term. Leagues will be formed
within the school and games played either at recess, after school,
or possibly on Saturday mornings. The selection of teams will
be made on the basis of weight rather than grade. The spring
program will include playground baseball, long ball, individual
and group athletics, mass games and folk dancing, in addition
to basket ball and volley ball. Instruction in the supervision
of the games will be given by the Director of Physical Education in the grades and by the Director of School Hygiene who
will be in attendance once week for special work. By means
of such plan of recess activities, it is possible to prevent the
congestion which takes place on most playgrounds at recess
time and to give direction to the play ideals of the pupils who
too often employ their recess period in manner not at all
conducive to the development of good citizenship. Our policy |
for playground extension should include plans for supervised
neighborhood athletics under the direction of volunteer High
School students, who have been trained for the work in the High
School course of Physicial Education. These school play centers should be conducted after school for an hour or so and be
open during the school year with the exception of the winter
term.

The following experiments made in connection with or- ,
ganized play at recess time are interesting, partly because of :

et
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
.- their originality and partly because of their promise of worth. while results. They were made in one of the normal schools
- in the middle west. The subject of the work was “‘Play and
 Its Relation to the Study Habits of the Child.” Four aims,
: attention, obedience, alertness and concentration, were stressed
. on the playground by the director, and records carefully kept
. by the teachers in charge of the pupils who made personal observations on their attitude before and after the play period.
| For expamle, on the day when attention was streessd on the
, playground, the teacher made observations on the effect of
the play of that particular day on the work done by the pupils
oe in the class-room. In similar way other aims were tested
| out on the playground and compared with the results on days
; when free play was given at recess. The results seem to show
that definite procedure in play has positive influence upon
| the study habits of the child; that is, the attitude which the
, child acquires on the playground is taken into the class-room.
  If the child is taught in play to give attention, obey promptly,
" concentrate or to be alert, these tendencies prevail in his work
also.
| Working Cards. There were over medical examina tions made during the past year in connection with the granting of working cards. In addition to the examination, frequent
/ medical advice was given relative to industrial hygiene and per| sonal hygiene. think that it would be an excellent plan to
  have pamphlet prepared dealing with the important princi, ples of hygiene and sanitation and given to each new applicant
fora working card. The same office hours have been in force as
: last year: Mornings, to  to  Afternoons,
| to  to  Saturday mornings, to  .
SECTION II—REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO HEALTH
INSPECTION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
Duties of School Physicians.
oo  It is the office of the school physician to detect defects :
and diseases and make proper notification to the parents.
He shall not undertake the treatment of cases except that he

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
may render the initial treatment for injuries which occur during the school session while making his routine calls. No visits
shall be made to the homes of any pupil to render medical
or surgical assistance. The responsibility for treatment of
| cases rests with the parents of the pupil. In selected cases
the school aurses shall render whatever assistance they can.
 School physicians shall visit regularly at least once a
week all schools assigned to them and report to the principal
of the school. Their duties shall be as follows: |
(a) Inspection of every class-room, noting the tempera- |
ture, ventilation, cleanliness, adjustment of seats and any other
conditions which may subsequently be required. All class |
work should stop during inspection:
(b) Aisle inspection of the hands, face and head of |
every child, noting evidences of the following: Hands—des- |
quamation, contagious sores, scabies, cleanliness: Faces— |
coryza, fever, eruptions, ringworm, contagious sores, nasal
excoriations, sore eyes, enlarged glands: Heads—pediculosis
and ringworm of the scalp. The diagnosis of pediculosis and
scabies is to be made privately:
(c) Clinic for diagnosis of referred cases, vaccination,
dressings, taking of swabs, and examination of pupils returning to school after sickness or quarantine. In taking pupil’s |
temperature the thermometer shall be properly washed with
alcohol and cotton in the presence of the pupil. Used vaccine
points shall be destroyed before the physician leaves the build- :
ing. All used tongue depressors must be broken, wapped in |
paper and directions given to have the janitor burn them:
(d) Sanitary inspection of the toilets, baths, lunch room |
and drinking fountains:
() The school physician shall report to the principal of
the school before leaving. The stub duplicate of all exclusions and notices must be filed in the principal’s office.
 The school physician shall request demonstration
of the fire drill at least once term. Where practicable, the
test shall be made with stairway or an exit closed.

—
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
,  School physicians shall visit immediately anv school
assigned to them for special investigation and make prompt
, report to the Director of School Hygiene. In order that the
office may know where to locate any member of the staff, each
. physician shall notify the office whenever for any reason his
| schedule is not being maintained.
,  Routine inspections shall be made at the beginning
of the school year and as often thereafter as condicions warrant. ,
Pupils shall file past the physician and show both sides of the
hands. All throats must be examined ard separate tongue
depressor shall be used for each pupil, when depression of the
tongue is required. Examine for evidence of contagious diseases.
 Physical Examinations. Fach physician is responsible for the physical examination of all pupils in the schools
, assigned to him unless the requirements of this department
: are fulfilled by the pupil’s family physician. record of the
examination shall be made on the pupil’s health and physical
record card.. Parents shall be properly notified.
 Pupils shall be excluded for symptoms of contagious
: diseases, and may be temporarily excluded for fever, coryza,
contagious sores, minor contagious skin diseases, uncleanliness,
- offensive sores, odors and habits.
 Notices to parents shall be sent in sealed envelope
, whenever the notice is of private character.
,  The school physician shall not vaccinate any school
child unless the written consent of the parent is secured. The
principal shall preserve the permission for three months.
:  Requisitions for supplies shall be sent to the office of
the School Hygiene department. ,
:  Members of the staff are subject to the authority oi
the Director of School Hygiene, who may call conferences and
require such reports as the best interests of the department
. demand.
 The school physician is expected to avail himself 
every opportunity to teach hygiene and to give talks on health

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
in the class-rooms as an important part of the work in preventive medicine for which this department is responsible.
 All duplicate exclusion cards, notice-to-parents cards,
and reports of swabs must be filed daily unless otherwise pro| vided for. weekly report on each school shall be in the office
not later than ten o’clock on Saturday morning.
Duties of School Nurse.
 It shall be the duty of the school nurse to act as an
assistant to the school physician. She may, under certain
 conditions, conduct the medical inspection in place of the doctor, but shall at all times refer the cases to the school physician
for confirmation of her diagnosis.
 The nurse shall visit the schools assigned to her at least
once week. regular schedule shall be maintained. Her
duties in the school shall be: (a) Consult the record of cases
needing treatment or social surveys. Such records are on file
in the principal’s office: (b) Call the pupils from the class-room
and interview them in the office. Treatment of minor conditions shall be administered. The following cases are allowed
to attend school while under treatment by private physician, dispensary or school nurse: Pediculosis with nits but no
live pediculi; skin diseases, including ringworm of the face,
scalp or body; scabies (if gloves are worn); impetigo and acute
conjunctivitis. Emergency cases should be treated as the
occasion requires. The nurse shall adopt the following methods
of treatment: Pediculosis—give the child circular with printed
instructions and require him to report to the nurse on the fol- |
lowing day to see if the instructions have been properly carried
out. Ringworm of face or body—clean with tincture of green
soap and apply collodion. For ringworm of the scalp, clean
with tincture of green soap and apply an ointment containing
tar. Conjunctivitis—instillations of saturated solution of
boric acid. For mucopurulent discharge instil one drop of
a twenty-five per cent solution of argyrol. For blepharitis— |
rub on the eyelashes an ointment of yellow oxide of mercury |
containing two grains to anounce. Scabies should not be treat- |

—
} REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
: ed at school but the parents should be shown how to apply
the sulphur ointment properly: (c) Records should be kept on
| the pupil’s case card showing treatments, home visitations,
. visits to dispensaries and progress of the case: (d) The school
nurse shall supervise the work of the matron on all matters
of school sanitation.
 The nurse shall do “follow up” work in the homes
whenever necessary. All visits to the homes shall preferably
be made after school hours and on Saturdays. The education
. of parents in public hygiene is one of the most important func| tions of the school nurse. Ininvestigating cases theschool nurse ‘
| shall encourage the parents to consult the family physician.
Unless evidence of poverty is marked, the nurse should not
 advise the parents to attend the dispensary or school clinic.
:  Health Talks. Nurses are expected to give short
: talks on matters of hygiene to the pupils in the rooms
: under their supervision. It is desirable that they make practi: cal demonstrations of the simple treatment of injuries. ‘
:  Exclusions. Nurses may temporarily exclude pupil
“ for evidence of contagious disease. All exclusions and notices
must be made on the regulation forms and duplicate copies
: filed with the Director of School Hygiene.
;  Reports. Nurses shall make weekly report to the
Director and forward cards of all cases which have been cured
/ or the treatment for which has been stopped.
,  Uniform. Nurses are expected to wear regulation
; uniform. The only requirement is that it shall be distinct: tive of the profession.
Duties of the Principal.
)  Each principal shall notify the office of the Director
of School Hygiene not later than twenty minutes after the
. opening of any school session, of all pupils returning to school
after an absence of more than three days on account of sickness without presenting certificate of health from the attending
physician or Board of Health. Such cases shall remain in the
: principal’s office until seen by the school physician or instruc— REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
tions are given by the Director. Section  Chapter  Acts
of  Massachusetts Legislature, reads: ““[The School Committee shall cause to be referred to the school physician for
examination and diagnosis every child returning to school
without certificate from the Board of Health after an absence
on account of sickness or from unknown cause.” High School
girls coming under this regulation shall be referred to the Dean
who is responsible to the woman physician assigned to the
High School. Grammar school girls coming under this regulation may be referred to the principal’s assistance.

 Suspicious cases. The principal shall have authority
to exclude for the day all cases showing symptoms of contagious
disease. Whenever conditions warrant, the Director should
be notified immediately and physician will report at the school
to make an examination and give instructions. record of such
cases shall be kept and given to the school physician when making his calls.

 Each principal is responsible for seeing that properly
equipped First Aid outfit is kept in the school. ‘This shall include clinical thermometer. Principals shall require during
the fall term conference with the teachers for demonstration in “First Aid” methods. ‘The school physician will assist
in the demonstration.

 Parents of children who have no vaccination certificates
and show no evidence of successful vaccination shall be notified on the first day of school of the vaccination law. Parents
wishing the school physician to vaccinate the child shall give
their written consent. Unless this is obtained the child shall
be excluded until properly vaccinated. All written consents |
shall be preserved for three months. |

 The eye and ear tests shall be completed by November !
first. Pupils entering school late in the term shall be examined ,
within two weeks.

 Principals shall supervise the filling out of the health |
and physical record cards and notify the office when the cards |
are ready for the school physician. pupil’s card follows him :
through each grade. |

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
:  Principals shall make such reports on the work in
Hygiene and Physiology as the Director may require.
 Principals are expected to lend their support to higher
organization of the playground and athletic activities of the
: school.
 Arrangements for fumigation shall be made through
| the department of School Hygiene.
: Duties of the Teacher.

‘During the school period the teacher becomes, as agent
) of the state, co-trustee with the parents in the great task of
, guarding against injury or loss those upon whom the future of
  the world depends.”
|  Following the opening exercises, the teacher shall
} make morning inspection of each pupil, noting eruptions,
“ peeling of hands, evidence of colds, sore throat or fever. All

suspicious cases shall be referred to the principal. booklet
; on Medical Inspection, prepared by the Massachusetts Board
of Education, contains much valuable material for the teacher
: and the physician.
}  All cases sent to the office for examination by the principal, school physician or nurse shall have properly filled out
information card.
:  Each child shall be separately tested for defects in
) vision and hearing. Parents shall be notified on the regulation
form. record of the examination shall be made on the pupil’s
: health and physical record card.

 Pupils returning to school after absence without an
excuse shall be referred to the principal. In all cases of absence
resulting from sickness in which no certificate is presented from

the attending physician or the Board of Health, the teacher shall
: require the pupil to waitin the principal’s office until permission

is given by the proper authorities for the child to take his seat
, in the class-room. Principals have power to deal with such
; cases but should, whenever practicable, consult the office of the
| School Hygiene department.

a a
  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC, SCHOOLS.

 School books returned from home which has been
quarantined because of contagious disease in the family shall
not be allowed to be used unless so ordered by the Director of
School Hygiene.

 Teachers shall not visit at the home of pupil where
contagious disease is present or suspected. All cases of sickness are suspicious unless under the supervision of physician.

 For purposes of ventiliation, windows shall be opened
wide during physical education, music, recess, and at close of
morning and afternoon sessions on all days not requiring
artificial heating. When the weather requires artificial heating, windows shall be opened wide for at least two minutes,
provided the temperature of the room is not lowered beyond
  degrees. This regulation shall not apply to the kindergarten. Any unusual condition (snow, rain or dust, etc.) may,
at the discretion of the teacher, temporarily suspend this rule.

 When practicable, each recitation or study period
should be followed by two minutes of marching or calisthenics.
The windows should be opened wide. Open windows may
mean drafts, so it is advised that pupils march lively. Their
moving bodies tend to break up the current of air from the
windows into many currents and equalize the temperature
throughout the room as well as assist in the proper ventilation of the room.

 If advisable, all pupils should leave the class-room at
recess sothat it may be properly aired. Children under the doctor’s care may remain in the principal’s office. No pupil shall be
punished by loss of the recess privilege, as required by School
Board Rules. |

 The practice of having pupils stand for recitation,
reading, etc. should be encouraged. All the muscles, especially
the abdominal muscles, benefit from the change of posture.

 Whenever an order is given for fumigation, the teacher
in charge of the class-room shall have the pupils place text
books and all other material on the desks. Books shall be stood
on end and opened.

as
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
pit  Inthe kindergartens, so far as is practicable, each pupil
a shall have individual material which is kept in separate packa age and used only by him. When contagious disease is prevalent, this is particularly important. Discourage at such
a times games in which children hold hands, and avoid having
. pupils sit opposite one another at the tables. Contagion is
. chiefly spread by the secretions which are passed from child
. to child by coughing, sneezing and the common use of kinder- garten material which becomes infectious from unclean hands.
  Duties of the Janitor.
 Janitors are responsible for the proper observance of
: Rules  and of the School Board.
|  They shall endeavor to maintain the temperature
; of the class-room between and degrees Fahrenheit dur; ing all school sessions requiring artificial heating.
 Whenevera contagious disease has been discovered in
: school or pupil sick with contagious disease has attended
school during the contagious period, it shall be the duty of the
: janitor to wash with an antiseptic solution the furniture, floor and
door knobs in the room where the pupil attended. Heshall also
wash the banisters ifthe room under question is located above
| the first floor. It is urgent that this be done at the first opportunity. The room shall be thoroughly ventilated at the close of
the session.
 Floors shall be cleaned either by vacuum, mopping or
moist sweeping. Dusting of furniture shall be done with an
: oiled or damp cloth. Chalk trays shall be washed daily and all
erasers cleaned outside of the building. The janitor has right
to the class-room at reasonable time after the close of school.
 The janitor shall make the rounds of the sanitaries,
baths and lunch room at least once month with the school
physician and call attention to all insanitary conditions present.
He may make recommendations for the correction of such
conditions. Closets should be thoroughly flushed at the close
of each intermission and the toilet seats scrubbed daily.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
 Janitors are responsible for the closing of all windows
after school.
 Banisters and door knobs shall be washed frequently.
Note:—The main sources of contagious disease in the public schools are the sputum and nasal secretions which diseased
children scatter in the air. These secretions may immediately
become the means of conveying infection or may dry and be
thrown into the air as dust in the cleaning of the room.  Secretions remaining on desk tops, door knobs, banisters and
other places are easily conveyed from person to person. It
is particularly important therefore that all dust be kept down
and all furniture exposed to contamination from hands be
frequently washed. Ventilation and sunlight play important
roles in schoolroom sanitation. The proper airing of the classroom dilutes the impurities present and cleanses the air. Sunlight is so important that curtains should be raised on days
when the school is not in session and the room well exposed
to the sun.
SECTION III.—FORMS AND CARDS USED.
Only such forms, cards and blanks as are absolutely ne‘  cessary are used in the School Hygiene department. At the
same time the value of records, written notifications and assignments is appreciated. The forms, etc. are as follows:
The Exclusion Card with attached stub is arranged in
duplicate and put up in pad form. Each physician carries a
book of these forms which he uses whenever he has reason to
exclude pupil or send notice home tothe parents. By using
carbon paper, record is kept for the office files and one for the
physician’s records. The original is given to the pupil. The
original stub is filed with the principal as record of the case.
From these stubs on file in the principal’s office, the nurse can
secure her data and continue the care of the case as indicated
by the physician. The duplicate notices and exclusions are
filed according to schools. Whenever the notice is personal,
it is sealed in an envelope.
"

ee
,
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
: The Pupil’s Case Record Card is used by the school nurse.
She makes out case record for every pupil referred to her.
| These cards are filed in the principal’s office until the case is
closed. ‘They are then forwarded to the office of the Director
) of School Hygiene.
The Weekly Report Cards are filed every Saturday by the
school physician. Instead of having each physician prepare
weekly reports on work done in all the schools, thus making it
; necessary to go through reports when in search of specific data
  about any particular school,:it has been found much easier to
have weekly reports on each school. form covering this is the one now used. These are filed under the proper school
| and complete record of all the work done in that school is
available at once.
: The Health and Physical Record Card is the most valuable
form in use. It is important that record of every child’s
physical and health conditions pass with the pupil from grade
to grade. This form serves the purpose very well. record
of important and vital facts about the pupil is made on this 
card which folds in the center and fits into the filing box used
 for the other records of this child. It is important to secure
correct replies to the questions asked on the card, for, in case
of contagious disease in school, the physician can secure from
the card records of all the pupils in the room, census of the
pupils relative to the particular disease and estimate what
the probabilities are for further spread in the room. He can
reduce the number of children subject to suspicion on account
of the occurrence of contagious disease inthe school and give
his attention to them. Room is left for bringing the record up
to date each year. The record also directs the physician’s
attention to pupils most apt to have heart disease, defective
hearing, etc.
A space is reserved for the teacher to note any facts which
have an important bearing on the child’s health and progress
in school. This card, going to the next teacher when the pupil
is promoted, gives the new teacher at once fair idea of the
child’s physical condition.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Frequently the school nurse will have her attention directed to certain pupils whose home life does not seem favorable to the child’s health. social survey will be made by the
nurse and she will record any important data secured from
her visit.

Two forms are used to cover work in vaccination. One  s
merely certificate given to all children who have been vacci‘nated, so that employers and cities demanding such cerificate
may have it. The other form is employed for the purpose of
securing the parents’ permission to vaccinate. During the past

- year some eight hundred children have been vaccinated in
the schools both public and parochial. Great care is exercised
in the operation to have everything sterile. ‘The arm is washed
with lysol and alcohol and carefully dried. Separate vaccine
points, each perfectly clean and sealed in wax container,
are used for each child. The scarifications are much smaller
than was the custom some years ago and the arms are protected
by sterile gauze dressing. In but few cases has it been necessary to give the the vaccination site subsequent attention.

A special form was used in the recent epidemic of infantile
paralysis to secure valuable information relative to possible
exposed cases. The work of the physicians was greatly expedited in this way. The gradual resumption of school on plan
agreed upon at joint meeting of the Board of Health and the
School Board materially assisted in giving every pupil an examination for evidence of sickness. Upper grades opened first.
The confidence of the public was gained. As the time of the
doctors allowed, the lower grades were opened. :

The Board of Health uses special postal card to notify
the school authorities of all cases of contagious disease. Schools
within the districts indicated on the cards are notified by telephone of the existence of contagious disease, and history of
the case secured if the patient is of school age. If the person
sick has recently attended school, the school physician visits
the school and makes careful examination. When circumstances seem to warrant it, every pupil is thoroughly examined
for symptoms of the disease. The room is given thorough

—

aay
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
cleansing and the pupils inspected each day until danger of
: the disease is over. For details of the handling of such cases,
refer to the regulations of the department of School Hygiene.

The Board of Health issues Pupil’s Return Card. No
pupil is allowed to return to school after recovering from con: tagious disease or after release from quarantine unless the Board
s of Health has given him permission. Pupils presenting these
return cards.are given an.examination by the school physician.
, The State furnishes Eye and Ear Notification Cards.
: The purpose of the school test of vision and hearing is to find
: out which pupils have such defect in their acuteness of vision
| or hearing as may interfere with their school work, and to noti) fy the parents that careful medical examination is needed.
; Special Health and Physical Record Cards are used for
, recording the results of medical and physical examinations of
} boys and girls of the High School. ‘The card is properly filled
, out by the parent and requires the parent to assume responsibility for the student’s participation in competitive athletics.
, One of the school physicians examines all candidates for athletic teams and all members of the gymnasium classes. The
record is planned to serve for four years. Another record
card is used in all the girls’ gymnasium classes. woman phy: sician is assigned to assist the Physical Director for girls in
making these records.

A Privilege Card is issued to certain users of the swimming
pool. Gymnasium and swimming pool privileges are offered
to members of the Evening High School and Evening Vocational School, as well as to the boys and girls of the ninth

| grades. ‘The plan is under consideration to offer the privileges
to the older boys and girls in the parochial schools and to all
pupils of the evening schools. Instruction in most of the classes
is volunteered by members of this department. Recommendations submitted to the Superintendent of Schools, suggesting
a much wider use of the High School Gymnasium and the Swimming Pool, are discussed somewhat in detail in another section
of my report. .

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

A Postal Card Form is used by the public in making application for the use of the swimming pool.
SECTION IV.—RECOMMENDATIONS.

The following recommendations which are submitted

for consideration are based upon study of the field of School

- Hygiene as it exists in Holvoke. Some of the recommendations
deal with the immediate needs of the department, while
others involve consideration of some of the problems which
intimately concern the future usefulness of organized health
work in the schools.

The School Nurse. The need of school nurses in connection with our work in medical supervision is exdingly
imperative. Until school nurses are added to the service
staff of the Hygiene department, there must always exist a
gap between the school physician and the parent. Part of the
school physician’s work consists in sending pupils home because
of conditions (mostly curable if properly treated) which make
the pupils disease menace to other school children. It is not
surprising to find that large portion of the cases excluded
from the schools come from homes where the head of the family
finds the task of meeting the high cost of living serious proposition,—so serious, in fact, that the children must do without
medical treatment for anything except the most urgent cases
of sickness. ‘The school physician refers the parent to the family physician. In the words of Artzmus Ward, “There aint
none” in the majority of cases. Therefore, the case goes on, often from bad to worse, time from school is lost and possibly ;

| the pupil becomes street Arab. Sending children home is,
fortunately, not the first step in medical supervision in our
schools. ‘The school physician’s work is educational. Children are directed how to apply home remedies in suitable cases.
Notices are sent home to the parents offering advice relative:
to the child’s condition. The spread of contagious diseases
in the schools is prevented, simple wounds are dressed and
in many ways first aid is rendered, while the physician is making his regular calls. However, the physician must always

ine
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
be handicapped in school work unless the nurse can step in
and link up the home and the school. Then urse can “follow
up” the case in the home, show the parents how to apply
treatment, instruct them in home hygiene, act as their representative if the child needs to visit the clinic, apply in the school
the remedies prescribed by the physician in the case of minor
skin diseases and infected sores, and either get the child back
to school in short time or, better still, keep the child in school
while under treatment. The physician and the nurse can both
. render the best service when assisted by the co-operation of
the other. An abundance of material has been collected
during the last year for “follow up” work by the school nurse.
In addition, the nurse can play an important part in the teaching of Hygiene in the class-room. In the role of an assistant
attendance officer, she can greatly assist in securing information
On suspicious cases of sickness. The ways in which the nurse
can make for better health and home conditions in Holyoke
are legion. earnestly recommend that the Board considethe advisability of appointing at least one nurse to giv  full time
to the work of school nursing. This should include work after
school up to five o’clock and Saturday mornings as well.

Fresh Air Class-Rooms. recent survey made in our
schools had for its purpose the securing of data relative to the
heating and ventilation conditions in the class-rooms. The
temperatures were noted in every room. The wide range of
room temperatures found is typical of many American schoolhouses. Such conditions are not conducive to health, and yet
the right to compel children to attend school carries with it
an obligation to furnish healthful, invigorating conditions in
the class-room. The problem of furnishing better air conditions in some of our schoolrooms therefore becomes worthy of
our best efforts. The results of the survey quoted above would
seem to indicate that the time has come for Holyoke to get in

| line with other progressive cities which are putting “fresh air
into the curriculum.” Our immediate obligations are two:

Better ventilation in all class-rooms, with correspondingly

lower temperature and more humidity: Special effort along the

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
direction of inaugurating some type of fresh air class-room in
) the schools where parents demand school conditions more
nearly approaching home conditions. ‘Nature intended that
children should breathe fresh air with its natural moisture
content, not baked and polluted air.”” Some of the class-rooms
in the American schools are in effect human drying kilns in
which the warm thirsty air saps much of the moisture from the
mucous membranes of the child. Upon leaving class-room
where such conditions prevail, the cool moist air outdoors
chills the child’s respiratory mucosa. ‘The result is often acold, .
with an interrupted school attendance. There are several ways
in which the problem of more fresh air in the class-room is solved.
The simplest method is to have the class stand at regular intervals and march rapidly around the room or go through free
hand calisthenics. The windows are thrown open and all
danger of catching cold from che draughts is obviated by the
moving bodies which break up the air current into many small
 currents and equalize the atmospheric conditions throughout
the room. Some schools have experimented with muslin
covered window screens in place of the window. The fresh
air filters through the screen which so retards the air current
that no draught is experienced by the pupils. Canvas ventilators so arranged that they can be raised or lowered in
the open window have helped to ventilate the class-room
without the objectionable draught. Many schools have
advanced far beyond these half-way measures and have removed |
the windows from the class-room and, in many cases, conducted !
school with part of the wall removed. In these instances the
children are given warm clothes which they wear all the time
in school. hot lunch is served, arrangements are made for
a rest period and the school program is considerably altered.
These classes are for anemic children, children suffering from
malnutrition, and the pretuberculous child. The large cities
also conduct open air schools for tuberculous children who are
afflicted with glandular, bone or joint forms of the disease.
Wherever the fresh air class-room has been tried, it has proved
a success. Invariably, tests made upon the blood to show

te
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
- the increase in hemoglobin, and records kept of the weight of
the children have proven conclusively that the fresh air class. room is conducive to improved health and mental alertness.
: It would seem to me that we might well consider some one of
. these methods of introducing more fresh air into the classoe room and begin by setting aside in each school one room where
- parents who wish their children to have the benefits of open
. air study or fresh air class-room might send them. Such a
| room would in all probability have to be ungraded at first,
. but the advantages of improved health and more ideal conditions for study would more than offset the disadvantage of
an ungraded room.
| Mouth Hygiene. Ill health, the most expensive thing in
; the world, has its origin largely in the mouth. realization
| of this fact has resulted in an immensely valuable propaganda
. in behalf of sound, clean teeth, which the different agencies in. terested in child welfare are conducting. It is proper that the
schools should take an active interest in such campaign.
School Boards are attacking the problem by means of instruc; tion in mouth hygiene in the class-room, dental service for se; lected cases, or by means of school dental clinic. The dental
clinic is of course the ideal way of handling the problem of bet- ter teeth and better health. The time is rapidly approaching
) when Holyoke must take some definite action relative to the
| care of defective teeth in its school children. ‘The importance
of teeth preservation is admitted by all. An English surgeon
has said that decayed teeth cause more suffering than the drink
evil. decaying tooth is potentially miniature “garbage
. can.” There are moisture, heat, food and germs present in
, both cases. The inevitable result is fermentation and putre, faction. These poisons which are manufactured in decaying
; teeth are swallowed, pass through the intestinal wall and en, ter the blood stream to poison the body.
Medical inspection shows that fully half of the school
| children in the United States have bad teeth. Holyoke can
claim no exception to the rule. The condition is present.
| The remedy has been prescribed. Can we assume the responsi  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
bility at the present time? wish to make two recommendations in this matter. The first is that the School Board consider the plan of asking the Associated Charities and the Dental
Association to co-operate with them in making dental treatment available to selected cases. The dentists might volunteer their services at certain times during the day, each dentist
“ giving small portion of day each weck or so, or, if this is
not practicable, possibly the dentists would consent to make a
reduction in charges for cases recommended by the School
Board. Some such plan would solve the problem of purchasing
a dental chair just now and enable us to make start if even
in small way. second recommendation is that the School
Board equip dental office in one of the schools and secure
volunteer or paid service by the dentists of the city.
The Russell Sage Foundation estimates that children with
seriously defective teeth fall six months behind in eight school
, years. New York City figures that it costs  to put child’s
mouth in good order, and this includes equipment. It is likely
that Holyoke might approach these figures. The dental clinic
is an economic consideration in school expenditures. Surely,
the dental clinic is an important adjunct to any system of
health work in the schools.
Recreation Centers. The importance of physical exercise under proper hygienic conditions is receiving just recognition from progressive educators. ‘The position which the school !
authorities shall take relative to the physical development of
the children under their control has been definitely settled.
The attitude of school boards toward some solution of the
problm of how best to furnish recreation and physical exercise
for the young people of the city however is far from being satisfactorily decided. ‘The conditions which exist in Holyoke are
ideal for the School Board to initiate wider use of its excellent
gymnasium and swimming pool and offer these privileges to the
young people of the city under proper supervision on certain
nights during the winter, thus establishing in effect Recrea- .
tion Center. would suggest that two nights week be given
to organized recreation and the young men and women !

at |
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
of the city be allowed to enroll in some one of the classes. Identification tickets should be employed and slight fee charged.
if it seemed best to make the privilege of the gymnasium and
swimming pool dependent somewhat upon the members’ attitude and proper use of the equipment. Athletic clubs should
: be granted certain time for practice and games, upon application to the proper authorities. For individuals who do not
belong to club open classes should be conducted, which would
allow them to secure privileges similar to those of club members. ;
The members of the parochial schools should be granted the
use of the gymnasium and pool at specified times during the
week. The Saturday evening classes which are now being
conducted should become regular part of the evening school
system. Such program would appear somewhat as follows:
Gymnasium and swimming pool in use during the day by the
High School, Vocational School, Parochial High Schools, public swimming classes and ninth grade classes, the last to
meet on Saturday mornings. The vening schedule would include one night for the High School games, one night for the
Vocational games, two nights for recreation center activities,
one night for the games of the athletic clubs in the city and one
night (Saturday) for the evening school classes. On two nights
during the week the swimming pool should be devoted to the
use of members of the recreation center classes. The other
, nights should be offered to the public on much the same plan
as at present. Such plan as suggested above is thoroughly in
keeping with the accepted policy of the School Board, namely,
to direct all its energies towards the preparation of the youth
of the city for useful citizenship.
; Equipment. survey of the equipment of the schools of this city has directed my attention to the following means
by which the work of the School Department in the field of
: Hygiene and Sanitation might be improved. Without these
additions to the school equipment believe that the work
done in the schools will still be of high standard. By means
: of these improvements think it is evident that an advance
: in the usefulness of the present equipment can be made.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
 For sanitary reasons as well as for convenience, I
wish to call attention to the need of at least one drinking fountainon the maingymnasium floor. Thenecessity for frequently
rinsing the mouth during physical exercise is so evident that
it suffices to call attention to the need of fountain where the
thirst can be quickly satisfied and the mouth rinsed if any
necessity for expectoration arises. In the absence of fountain,
it is impossible to maintain the gymnasium in the sanitary
condition it should be.
 There is no satisfactory way of ventilating the locker
rooms or the swimming pool at present. Gymnasium clothes
are bound to get wet from exercising and give rise to unpleasant odors in the locker room as well as creating insanitary conditions. Some means of drawing the odors away and of
drying the clothing in the lockers is urgent if we are to secure
the best results from our gymnasium work. The ventilation
of the swimming pool is particularly bad during the summer.
The windows cannot be opened sufficiently wide to allow proper
circulation of the air and much of the value of the swim is
lost by the depressing condition of the atmosphere.
 Attention was directed last year toward the need
of playground equipment for the girls in the High School.
The work during the last year has developed so rapidly that this
need is more apparent than ever. The policy for the girls’
department calls for out-of-door exercise during the fall, winter
and spring. ‘The activities include volley ball, skating (form,
individual and group competition) tennis and playground
baseball. The importance of physical exercise in the development of healthy young womanhood cannot be lost sight of. |
It may very well take precedence over the importance of the
boys’ department. ,
 The problems of lighting, heating, humidifying and ,
ventilating the schooiroom have become so important that .
instruments of precision for the proper measurement of schoolroom conditions are necessary if the work of Hygiene is to be |
based on anything more substantial than guesswork. To
maintain the conditions of light, heat, fresh air and moisture

N
REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.  
in the class-room in proper condition, we need Photometer,
an Anemometer, Sling Psychrometer and an apparatus for
testing the amount of impurities in the air such as the Fitz
method employed in testing for carbon dioxide.

 Some step towards the equipment of the school playgrounds should be made in the near future. simple beginning may be made by setting up basket ball goals and uprights for volley ball. Later, jumping standards and pits
and the more elaborate playground equipment might be considered. ‘The important thing is to get class groups on the playground at some period during the day for organized athletics.
The experiment cited in Section I, under Playgrounds, contains 
an outline of the recess program where organized playground
work is conducted.

 Inconnection with our plan for introducing some form
of rational athletics into the class-room during the winter term, suggest that horizontal bars for “‘chinning”’ be placed in appropriate doorways in each of the elementary and grammar
schools.

 The School Board has recommended the installation of
baths in Morgan and West Street schools. They have proved
to be of inestimable value in the Whiting School both for cleansing of the body and the development of immunity to the common cold. Baths are the largest single factor in securing hygienic conditions in the school and the neighborhood.

,  The demands made upon the time of the Physical
Director in the High School are so many that am led to offer
as possible solution the suggestion that some means be taken
to secure as member of the High School faculty man who
has special ability along some athletic line and is able to assist
in the gymnasium or on the athletic field part of the time. |

In concluding this report, wish to express my appreciation
of the encouraging interest which the School Board has taken
in the department of School Hygiene. Whatever measure of —
success has attended our efforts to bring the work of this department up to the high standard of-the special departments
connected with Holyoke’s school system, is very largely due

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
to the excellent services which the members of the different
divisions of the School Hygiene department have rendered.
Much credit is due the principals and teachers of the schools
for their helpful co-operation. The Board of Health has been
of inestimable assistance to us. Through the courtesy of the
Board of Public Works we have been able to secure improvements in lighting, heating and apparatus for playground work.
Perhaps the greatest momentum to our work has come unso- jicited from the parents of the children attending the schools
who have expressed in many ways their confidence in this new
department. For their moral support am deeply grateful
 and look forward all the more’ eagerly to the consummation of
our plans for better and healthier school community in this
city.
Respectfully submitted,
] WALTER F. COBB, M.D., :
Director of School Hygiene. |

  |
PART VI. |
REPORT OF ATTENDANCE OFFICERS
To the School Board of Holyoke:

oe The report of the attendance officers for the school year

: ended June  th,  is herewith submitted. It is the fortysecond annual report of this department.

, The taking of the annual school census has been abolished
by act of the legislature and plan of continuous registration
has been substituted. The statistics formerly supplied through

the taking of the school census must now be furnished by the
schools of the city. The first three tables appear this year

for the last time. |
The usual co-operation between this department and
employers of child labor continues and we have nothing to
complain of on their part. The unusual business activity of
. the past year caused tremendous increase in the number of
minor children between fourteen and sixteen years of age who
left school to enter employment. The certificates
issued to individuals between fourteen and sixteen years
of age, as against issued to individuals in the same
period of the previous year, will give good idea of what busiiness boom of this proportion will do in the way of decreasing

school membership.

From September Ist,  to June  th,  eighteen
summonses were served for cases of truancy. Thirteen of these
boys were probated and their cases continued from time to time :
throughout the year. They were finally discharged. Five
boys were committed to the Training School in Springfield.
At this time ten boys from this city are at the Hampden County
Training School.

  REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

From September Ist,  to September Ist,  this
department issued educational certificates to literate
minors between the ages of sixteen and twenty-one; also  
educational certificates to illiterate minors of the same age
limits. These, together with employment certificates
issued, make total of certificates of all kinds issued during the period.

In April of Mr. Edouard Cadieux ceased to act as
an attendance officer, devoting all his time to the duties of
school house agent. .

Tables I., II. and III. relate to the school census taken
September,  .

TABLE I. SCHOOL CENSUS.
Wards Total
Sept.  ....  :
Sept. ....   
Net gain in over  ......  ... ne  
TABLE II. ANALYSIS OF SCHOOL CENSUS.
 
Wards Bovs Girls Boys Girls Boys Girls Boys Girls Total
,  
 ,  )—   
Sub-totals    :
Totals   |
TABLE III. CHILDREN WITHIN COMPULSORY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE AGE—SEVEN TO FOURTEEN YEARS.

Wards Total
Boys...........  
Girls.... ......  

Totals......  


