REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
To His FHlonor, the Mayor, and Gentlemen of the City Council

GENTLEMEN Herewith is presented the report of the
board of health of the city of Holyoke for the year ending
November As required by law, the board met
for organization the first Monday in February. Dr. G. H.
Smith was chosen chairman, Joseph Murray was elected
clerk, Richard Shea, health officer, and Dr. John F. Buckley, secretary of the board of health.

The regular meetings of the board have been held on
the first Wednesday after the first Saturday of each month.
The board found it nssary to hold number of special 
meetings to give hearings upon petitions and to transact
other business pertaining to the office.

A number of visits of inspection were made by the
whole board. In addition to these, the members of the
board individually made very many inspection visits.

The board is pleased to state thateduring the past year
the health of the city has been exceptionally good. The
mortality has been lower and contagious diseases fewer
than the previous year. We have, however, fair amount
of diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhoid fever and measles, but
at no time did those threaten to become epidemic.

About November first, the city was somewhat startled
by discovering one case of small pox at No. Fountain
street. The origin of this solitary case continues to be
shroudedin mystery. We are of theopinion, however, that
it must have been carried from paper mill in which sisREPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
ter of this boy is employed. The youngster had, few
months previously, been vaccinated, which circumstance
considerably modified the virulence of the attack. The
vicinity of this outbreak is one of the most densely populated in the city, and had it not been promptly handled by
the board of health and school officers, the condition which
we would most naturally expect would have assumed
alarming proportions. As several weeks have now elapsed
since quarantine was taken off, we believe we have seen
the last of the pest.

The collecting of house offal still continues to be done
by contract. Last year, the board rived several bids
ranging from $ to $ per month. This contract as

 during the previous year was awarded to Patrick Shea and
M. F. Driscoll, each riving $ per month, and each
to furnish bond of $ for the faithful performance of
this work, and each to furnish driver and covered cart.
This work on the whole has been done as satisfactory as
price paid would allow. Very few complaints being heard.

In collecting swill, the contractors have been .occasioned considerable annoyance by parties collecting for
themselves. These parties find out where the best swill is
deposited, select what they want and scatter the remainder
about the alley. ,

The contractors, whose work it is to remove all such
stuff on his rounds, very naturally concludes there must
be some kind of an agreement between house holder and
those private collectors, and very naturally passes by those
places. We think some little vigilance on the part of
police officers would put stop tothiscustom. While this
practice is tolerated, it is next to impossible to keep the
alleys in any kind of sanitary condition.

The city council, judging by the size of appropriation
each vear, seems to forget the fact that this city is taking
upon itself new localities each year, an appropriation which

. five or six years ago would be more than ample, is no more
than half sufficient for our present needs. The residents

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

of new districts are now demanding priveleges accorded to
residents in more central localities. Those people are taxpayers and in all justice, should have priveleges in common withthe rest. The board of health is pleased to state
that our health officer, Mr. Richard Shea, has spared
neither time nor energy to place the alleys in clean and
most sanitary condition.

The alleys have never before been put in more presentable condition. If the residents could understand the
vital importance of health boards in our cities, and could
intelligently comprehend the fact that on the sanitary condition of our alleys depends to considerable extent the
health or mortality of their families, we are firmly convinced they would see the utility of unlimiting the appropriation for this department.

About the close of the past year very important step
was taken by paving the alley between Appleton and Suffolk north of High. ‘This alley was one of the worst in
the city. A certain sum each year should be appropriated
for the paving of portion of alley. In this way the time
would not be far remote when our alleys would all be
paved and in good sanitary condition.

The disposal of alley garbage is now very serious
question. ‘There is positively no sure or proper place in
the city nor within the near surroundings of the same
where garbage and other refuse matter can be deposited.
It therefore becomes extremely nssary that measures be
taken to adopt some method of disposal and get it in condition as soon as possible. We would recommend that
your honorable body make at once an appropriation for
the putting up of crematory plant and make an offer for
bids to construct the same.

For years it has been the custom to dump garbage collected upon grounds owned by private individuals. While
this matter of disposal is of good advantage to owners of
hollow and marsh lands, persons residing in or about the vicinity where this refuse is dumped and where in hot seaREPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
sons it is allowed to decompose and send out the foulest of
odors, object inthe strongest terms. In reference to the
disposal of ashes and alley refuse, we respecfully submit 
that it is neither wise policy nor economical to make
valuable land for private individuals without riving
any recompense, though for years, because of the fact that
the city has had no land on which this ashes and refuse
could be dumped, the board has been obliged to fill land
belonging to private individuals without riving any
compensation therefore in order to dispose of this stuff. If
after investigation it should be the wisdom of the council
that acrematory should be erected for the disposal of
garbage it will be absolutely nssary for the city to
acquire land for the erection of buildings nssary for that
purpose.

In disposing of house garbage the board, as before
suggesting, is of the opinion that steps must be taken immediately to dispose of the same. It will take some time
to look this matter up and get plant in operation, no
matter how systematically we may prod in the matter.
The time to do all this work is not when we are shut off
from the present dump and have no method of disposal at
hand. As the work of putting up crematory apparatus
would entail an expense which the board of health has no

. legal authority to contract, and as it is problem which
requires the most careful consideration and the best
thought, the board respectfully recommends that committee be appointed from the city council to act in conjunction with the board of health, with authority to investigate
the several systems of disposing of house garbage by visiting some of the plants now in operation, and after such
investigation to make such recommendations in the premises as may seem to the committee and this board for the
best interests of the residents of this city. The board is
now happy in the consciousness that this is very favorable year for the carrying out of this project. No one in
the city realizes more fully the nssity for carrying out

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

this plan than our mayor elect. His experience for years
as member of the board of health has frequently and
most forcibly demonstrated this nssity. We hope this
will be one of the first items to claim his honorable attention. The force employed on the alleys at present consists
of six double teams and seventeen men. The price paid
each double team is $ per day. This force, in order to
do justice to the increasing demands, should be considerably increased. This move, however, the board is unable
to carry out on account of the smallness of the appropriation. 

During the year an inspection of the whole city by
every member of the board was made on several occasions.
On these occasions number of localities of doubtful sanitary conditions were promptly corrected and in manner
acceptable to the board. The importance of these sanitary

 inspections, regularly and systematically carried out in the
early season of each year, can not be over estimated. They
stimulate the habitually careless to better regulation of

. their homes and remove from unsanitary localities much
that invites and fosters disease. .

In consequence of business depression and inability of
tenants to pay rent, in large number of cases, the board,
in many instances found it regular hardship to property
holders to improve property. In great number of instances too, the property was of such poor character that
really it seemed like insulting new closets by compelling

 them to be placed in such tumble down places.

, Experience, however, has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the board that those very places are the life and
substance of disease bearing germs, and to allow them,
though sympathy for the landlord to go by default, would
be an injustice to ourselves and the community at large.
In few instances, persons not complying with the board’s
orders in regard to abaiting nuisances were served with
sheriff's orders and conviction and fine resulted in number of cases.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

The board of health, we believe, on former occasions,
called the attention of your honorable body to the extremely
unsanitary condition of the water closets, cells, tramp room
and especially that barbarous instrument of torture known
as the padded cell situated in the basement of the city hall,
but as yet no action has been taken to remedy this evil.

Several diseases occuring among the officers, whose
business makes it imperative they should remain in this
unsanitary den have been traced directly to this cause.
This ‘‘ padded cell’’ is one of the worst and most unsanitary dens in the city. If I had an animal I had any great
regard for, I wouldn’t endanger its life by compelling it to
spend night inthis, place practically no ventilation, cut
off from the light, damp and musty, the foulest of odors
assail the nostrils after person has been confined in this
place for few hours. It is disgrace to any civilized
community and should at once rive attention.

It is the opinion of those people who know generally
what they are talking about, that no office should be
allowed in this basement. ‘There are five or six cells also
in this basement that have never seen the light, neither is
there breath of fresh air wafted intothis hole. ‘This condition of affairs should not be allowed to exist. Prisoners
should be placed in sanitary quarters.

We have not the means at our command, nor is it
within the province of this board to make alterations in
public property of the city. We would not, however, be 
doing our duty if we remained silent while matters in this,
basement continue to go on in this present condition.

Great care should be exercised in regards to reporting
suspicious cases in our schools. Inquiry should be made
by the teachers each day relative to throat troubles and
contagious diseases. If any be reported, such cases should
be prevented from attending school, and the board of
health immediately notified. When the suspected case is
visited and if found contagious, the patient should be de 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
 tained and isolated. In this manner much sickness can be
prevented. 

It is of special nssity on the part of the public
health that each physician engaged in the care of contageous and infectious diseases should report them at the
earliest date of diagnosis to the secretary of the board of
health. Valuable aid can thereby be rendered in protecting the families of that locality and arresting further development or spread of the disease. The physician in
attendance, it is true, can, and probably in the majority of
instances does act conscientiously in this matter. There
are on the other hand, and this board is perfectly cognizant
of the fact, few physicians who entirely ignore every rule
governing the board of health. A few doses are now in
waiting for these beligerents and the board this coming
year will see that it be administered.

We have now had three years of the plumbing ordinance and every citizen loud in praise of the same. Each
sucding year but demonstrates more forcibly the advantages of this office, and the wonder is, ‘‘How did we
get along so many years without it?’ During the past
year the work done by the inspector has by actual count
increased four fold. The city is particularly fortunate in
having so efficient man as Mr. Joseph Murray to conduct
this work. 

So far as we are able to perceive Mr. Murray has done

his work faithfully, treating all alike, showing favor to
none. The improvements which rntly have been made on
the almshouse make that institution one of the best in the
state.

A grave error we believe has been committed in not
furnishing the entire plant. A number of cases belonging
to this city that are being cared for by other towns might
be taken care of at our own almshouse at about half the
present expense. 

The upper floor of one of the wings might be finished

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
off for hospital purposes with great saving to the city.
The services of trained nurse and couple of competent
assistants might be secured and all the milder cases of city
charge attended to at minimuin of expense. In bringing
this matter before your honorable attention we do so not
for lack of cause. A few.instances. where women about to
become mothers could not be attended to at the almshouse
for.want of proper accommodations. These women have
had to be removed to private families in the city and remain
until well. The ventilation especially on the first floor
seems to be imperfect. This should be thoroughly looked
after and placed in best sanitary condition.

Among the several officers in this city, there exists one
for the inspection of milk. This office so far as is of any 
practical results, exists but in name. Year after vear this
matter has been taken up, thoroughly gone over by each
succeding board of health, and each year the same action
has been taken. In the estimation of the board of health,
 Office in the city is more important and capable of doing
more good and that at very small expense. The inspec tor. cannot, with present appropriation, be expected to do
anything like justice with this office. The appropriation 
is not sufficient to procure one tenth part of the equipment
nssary to conduct successful analysis. To our minds,
there is no department tn the city during the months of

' July, August and September. deserving of more careful
attention. If we but reflect upon the hundreds of helpless
little infants whose very livesdepend upon the purity of
cow’s milk, we can at once see the justice of this board’s
rematks concerning.thismatter. 
 .The reasonof the greatly increased mortality among
infants dnring the hot months is chiefly because cows’ milk
is apt to be contaminated with germs of, tuberculosis,
cholera infantum, and many other diseases that without
much warning carry these infants off. We therefore most
respectfully call your attention to this condition and ask
you to increase the appropriation. consistent with work, ex REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

pected. Especially do we request you to have thorough

, examination made during the very hot months. We read
a great deal and hear considerable concerning tuberculosis
in cows. The state cattle commissioners have rived a
large appropriation for the examination of herds and extermination of this dread disease. A certain proportion of
this appropriation comes to Holyoke. We suggest that a
competent person be appointed to this office. It is an important position and should have person whom previous
experience and knowledge of disease in cattle have fitted
him to do the work thoroughly, scientifically and conscientiously. Somevery decided action should ‘be taken in
regard to sale and consumption of ice during the summer
months. We are aware that ice is vehicle for all kinds
of germs. A practice very common among us is to place
ice in water, allow it to melt and drink the water. This,
when we reflect, seems to be very dangerous habit. One
place in particular, where ice is harvested and sold from
house to house should be condemned and owner prosecuted. When cold weather begins this person dams up a
small stream which runs by his door. On either side of
this brook are watersheds which contain decomposing
animal and vegetable matter, the rains meet this manure
and work it into the stream and large percentage of the
ice you drink is composed of this material We are particularly blessed in having good ice in fact as good as can
be procured in any city. The case mentioned above is the
only one we are aware of that is not all right.
Following are the deaths per month

 Stillbirths. Total.
Dmber, 
January, 
February, 
March, 
April, O 
May, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Stillbirths. Total.
June, 
July, 
August, 
 September, 
October, 
 November, 
 
The annual death rate, excluding still births which 
is per inhabitants, is very low.
The following diseases were reported to the board during the year
Diphtheria. Scarlet Pever. Measles. Typhoid Fever. Smallpox.
Dmber, ’ I re
January, oO
February, oO Oo I O
March, I I oO O
April, oO
May, I O oO
June, I oO
July, O oO O
August, O fe
Septempber, oO O oO
October, oO oO
November, oO 
 I
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Appropriation, $. 
Expenditures, . 
Appropriation overdrawn, . $. 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
. EXPENDITURES.
Labor and team hire, ., $. 
Bills paid,.,. .
$. 
GEO. H. SMITH, M. D. 
RICHARD SHEA,
' JOHN F. BUCKLEY, M. D., 
Board of Flealth.
DEATH RETURNS.
 Table showing the mortality by disease and by month
for the year .
 
Causes of Death. Db. J. F. M. A. M. J. J. A. S. OO. N. Tot.
Abscess of abdomen, . ce Tee ce tete te te eC
Abscess of thigh, ww ck ceweeeOd
Accident, drowning, . . I TIT. . 
Accident, poisoning, weee teeete we
Accident, suffocation, . Lo. Tow ue we eeee eh
Accident, unclassified,. . I FT I Io. I 
Ascites, . ce ce netele e eC
Amaemia, ww ue wete ce ete te te eC
Angina Pectoris, ok ce ceteee eC
Asthma, . ww wwe Tne we te tete eC
Apoplexy, 
Asthenia, .N. ce ce we te we we LeeC
Atelectasis Pulmonalis, . ukeeee we Od CO
Amygdalitis, se ce ce weeeeC
Bowels, inflamation of, . . weTo we weToe 
Bronchitis, acute, . . I IT To To. ue weee 
Bronchitis, capillary, . 
Bronchitis, tuburcular, . fo oT ce eee ee
Bronchitis, chronic,. . ww. T nee eS
Bright’s, wwwe Ewe TOT LT we ue 
Brain, congestion of, we weeeee oe TeeC
Brain, inflamation of, . es
Brain, softening of, w eOTeC
Brain, concussion of, To oweeeTL we 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. Ail
Burned todeath,. . . ow. cs we we TI eee Od
Carcinoma ofthyroid, . ww ee te teCO wt
Cancer of uterus, rs re as air 
Cancer of intestines, . . IT LT i. oe Te oe 
Cancer ofstomach, . I I. I I 
Cancer of rectum, . . To. cw ce Tce ce teee ee
Consumption,. I £ g
Convulsions, . I . 
Cystitis, chronic,. . . LT Tow weTeeee we 
Cranitomy, weewe ne nce te teee OU
Cholera infantum, we aewe Bw § 
Cyanosis, . ete teeeee we OT we TC 
Cholera morbus, wk e weee nete ee
Chorea, te te tet teee we Oe ee
Cirrohis of liver,. . . we ToT ow aepeee Cd
Catarrh, acute grastric, eeeeeOd
Carcinoma of omentum, . ce oe ve we ewee 
Diphtheria, . I 
Difficult labor, . . I IT IT. woe owOL UE Ul 
Diabetes milletus, . . I I’. I I 
Diarrhoea, . . . I I I 
Diarrhoea, chronic, . . ToweeST OT we we 
Dysentery, . te we ce eee oT we Tw 
Dentition, . ee te teeewe we OT eT
Enteritis, ir. I I 
Eclampsia, puerperal, Toe ue ce oe teeewe Od
Epilepsy, eeTOD DT ie ewe 
Endocarditis, ee we nn ce teeeCOC
Entero colitis,. wk ueeeee Od lw we Od
Exhaustion, uewe TiceToeee we 
Erysipelas, ete neeeDe teee eT
Enteritis, gastro,. weeeee we CUE CO
Fractures, compound, . oww ok we ce e te teeC
Fractures, of skull, . . To. ow LT ow we Toe e eB
Fractures, leg and arm, . Tow. ce oeeeee ge we
Fever, puerperal. . . IT Tow Tow DT weet 
Fever, typhoid, . . T To. we oe TogseeTO
Fever, malarial, wk ce we we ne eh we eC
Frozen todeath, . ww we Tne ne neeepee peeOT
Gastritis, kw keDee te ce De ce te ae ge 
Heart disease,. LonLoeTieLigeia 
Heart, fatty degeneration of, Fo ow Tl aw we 
Heart, ebolism of, ww wk ue ne ne ne te te t CO
Heart, hypetrophy of, Took ek we coe we oe ee
Heart, valvular disease of, I I I. 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

Heart, stenosis of, . wk cd ce ce ce ce ne teee we OCC‘S
Heart, failure of,. . . Low Tw Tw Ew 
Aneurism of aorta, . wk ce ce teewwe OU I
Hysteria, . we ce ce ee we ne OD we COU
Hepatitis, eteee tenetete eC
Hydrocephalus, . . I L.w sw TE Eu we ew S
Intussusception, . Towee De teD
Insanity, we Tce e ce te tete eC
Indigestion, ekeeee Loeee ToeoD
Insolation, . ge ce we we ne ne te te tewe
Imanition, I I dt fii,r. . OLE
Intestinal obstruction, . Io. we we we OECD
Influenza, ww ue we Tce ne ne te te tees IX
Intestinal perforation, . To. ueeeee we Od
Nephritis, acute,. . I I I 
Nehpritis, chronic, ww wk weee ee ee
Kidney,fatty degenerationof, . IT. I I 
Locomotor ataxia, ww Toe ce ce eteteee we COU
Laryngismus, stridulous,. Tow. eeeeC
Lungs, inflamation of,. . To Tou ue LieeB
Lungs, congestion of, ww ww we we ce cetee te CO
Meningitis, ii 
Meningitis, acute, I. I. I st 
Meningitis, tubarcular, . ww Tw we oT rw 
Marasmus, . I 
Myocarditis, oe Tice oe ce te neeee we CO
Malnutrition, . . . ww we ew Tw Tw we EO 
Measles, . wgeeeeee we Od CU ee
Miscarriage, e ewe Od
Myelitis, chronic ww we Tcewewe OeD
Meningitis, spinal, . r. I I F 
Meningitis, cerebro spinal, Tek weee eC
Malassimilation,. . . To. Tow wow Taw ew 
Oedema, cerebral, OE wk ck te te teeC
Oedema, pulmomary, Low ce oetete te te we COU
Oedema, gerttes, wk Bk ene te te tee te te we
Osteo Sarcoma, . ce ce ce ce ww dee nee we etCi S
Pulmonary congestion, . IT we Eweee te 
Paralysis, EF Ti ce ue Tite cete eS
Pericarditis, on ceTone ew ewe
Peritonitis,. . . . ow we we eh UFO UD OF
Pleurisy, kee Ene ce ce nete te te ee
Pneumionia, 
Premature birth,. § 
Phthisis pulmonalis, &

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. Al 
Paralysis agitaus, I ce te te te teee
Sacpingitis, . Ee ce ce tete te te tee OT 
Paresis, weeDe we we
Placenta previa, oe e De we te te eT
Rheumatism, . . . Tow ToeTnete te eB
Sarcoma osteo, wee ete te wwnewe eC
Scrofula, . ueee Te Teee Te 
Suicide, ww ne wee te teee ee
Septicaemia, . koe we ce Tce te eC
Syphilis, congential, Tock ckee cete ee
Rheumatism, chronic,. . Ton e te te te eC 
Tumor, . ww wewe ce ne eteee we COU
Tetanus, ww ww ce ce ne we we Le ceteeC
Tuberculosis, . wee ueee we we Cd ke OD
Tobes misenterica, wk ue cewe we te we we Cd COT
Senility, we ie ene ne te te te te te we CO
Stenosis of aesophagus, . Lowe eete eC
Senile dementia, . wk wkeeeee Od CU .
Surgical shock, Duk ce ceteee
Stricture of stomach, . Tok ce ce ne oe te weee we COU
Scirrhus of pylorus, ww wk ok we De tete ee
Spina befida, uk ce ce ee oe Od
Shock from fall, . . . Ti. ow Tw we we TO 
Syncope, we ceD ete ne te we
Unknown, I 
Uraemia, acute, . . ie cewe de neee
Weakness, . . wee Tne ueeeee mm
Whooping cough, ., rr. 
Still births, 




