Report of Board of Health.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and City Council of the
Cily of Holyoke

The Board of Health respectfully submits the following as its report for the year ending, November ,

The membership of the Board has been changed during the year, only in the appointment of Dr. J. C. E.
Godin to sucd Dr. G H. Smith, whose term expired
February Organization was effected by the choice
of Mr. Sullivan as chairman, Dr. Donoghue as secretary and Mr. Bateson as agent of the Board.

The work of the Board during the yearin regard to the
removal of ashes and house offal has been, on the whole,
satisfactory, but the steady growth of the city has been
felt in the greater effort required to perform the work by
reason of no increase in the alley force. This force consists now of six single teams, with three drivers, and six
men The teams are furnished at the extremely low rate
of $ per day, for six teams and three drivers rate
we believe, it unlikely we can obtain again, in spite of
the competition in bids and the team service has been
at the same time excellent.

The force must during the coming year considerably
add to its labor by caring for the Lyman Mill tenements

&

Report of Board of Health. 
in accordance with pledges made by the Board to encourage sanitary improvements.

This work together with the general increase of tenements and residences needing attention will demand an
increase in the force the coming year of at least two
teams and drivers, with two men,and this besides the
temporary doubling of the force for few weeks in the
spring, to speedily remove the winter’s accumulation of
debris.

The collection of house offal has been done by John
Donoghue as during the previous year, but since May ,
at only $ per month, while previous to that date the
contract was for $ per month. This work has been
done as satisfactorily as could be expected under the circumstances. This work will hereafter need two teams,
in the warmer season at least, for its proper performance.

After about two years immunity, case of small pox
appeared in our midst in April. Though occurring ina
family of thirteen persons, and in large eight tenement
building, the speedy removal of the patient, and thorough’
vaccination of all exposed fortunately limited the outbreak to asingle case The patient, woman of twentytwo years of age, was employed in paper mill rag room,
and though vaccinated in youth had the disease ina
very severe form, but made good recovery.

In this connection should be mentioned the need of a
careful inspection of the heating apparatus at the smallpox hospital, inasmuch as long time has elapsed since
it has been put toa proper test.

In our last report the great need of general vaccination of the city was urged and the appearance of the

 Report of Board of Health.
dread disease during the year, but emphasizes that recommendation.

We urge now that special appropriation for this purpose be early made for an outbreak of the disease
would demand precipitate work in this direction, and
then perhaps after the loss of several valuable lives.

Quite large number of our city, especially children,
we believe, are wholly unprotected by vaccination.

Scarlet fever and diphtheria have prevailed to some extent throughout the year, but with only ordinary fatality.
Typhoid fever has appeared to about the same extent as
for three or four years past. The State Board of Health
has made aclose study of the causes possible for the
prevalence of this disease here. While no definite
results have yet been reached by the Board, the use of
canal water in factories for drinking purposes is believed
to have been somewhat factor. On the suggestion of
the State Board, the water was interdicted by our Board
by placing labels and notices of warning in all shops and
mills.

The nssity of sanitary inspection has been adverted
to in our previous reports and again we urge that enough
money be appropriated for this department to enable us
toemploy reliable man for this most nssary work
during the greater part of the year.

Some system must soon be adopted whereby the grading and paving of our alleys, especially in business
streets, can gradually be accomplished. For, as at
present it is next to impossible to keep many of them ina
sunitary condition for more than one day in week.

The number of death certificates approved and burial

Report of Board of Health. 
permits issued for the year was of which were for
still births.

The annual death rate was somewhat less than per
 excluding still births as against in and
 in .

DEATHS BY MONTHS. .

Months. Deaths. Still Births. Total.
Dmber, 
January, . 
February, , 
March, 
April, , 
May, , 
June, , 
July, B 
August, 
September, , 
October, 
November, 

 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand Dmber $ 
Appropriation, 
Transfers, 
 $. 

 Report of Board of Health.
EXPENDITURES.
Labor onalleys, $. 
Swill gathering, 
Expense for Small pox, 
Contingent expenses, $. 
Balance on hand Dmber $ 
The expense incident to small pox is returnable to the
city from the State, as the patient had no settlement here,
but this amount will probably, as heretofore, be credited
elsewhere than to our account.
REPORT OF AGENT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Privy vaults ordered cleaned, 
Privy vaults ordered repaired, 
Privy vaults ordered discontinued, 
Pigs ordered removed, 
Manure heaps ordered removed, 
Barn cellars ordered cleaned, 
Water closets ordered put in, 
Dead goats and dogs ordered buried, 
Alleyway obstructions ordered removed, 
Sinks and drains ordered repaired, 
In order to increase the alley force as deemed, it will
be nssary, and to provide for the other recommenda.
tions suggested, we believe this department will need a
sum not less than $ to meet its expenses for the
general work during the coming year.

Report of Board of Health. 
We respectfully advise also special appropriation of
$ for the purpose of general vaccination work
not attempted to any extent for over six years.
Respectfully submitted,
TIMOTHY SULLIVAN,
JOSEPH C. E. GODIN, M. D.,
D. F. DONOGHUE, M. D. 
Board of Health.


