REPORT
 OF THE
BOARD OF HEALTA
OF THE
CITY OF HOLYOKE,
FOR THE YEAR ENDING
NOVEMBER .
Ho.LyokeE, Mass.
DovLE PRINTING COMPANY.
 .

Digitized by Google

REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF HEALTH.
Zo the Honorable the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN In compliance with the Public Statutes, the
Board of Health herewith respectfully submit for your consideration the twenty third annual report.

The Board met for organization on the first Monday of
February, electing the following officers Chairman, Dr. Arthur
B. Wetherell Secretary, Dr. Frank A. Woods Health Officer,
Mr. Jeremiah J. Linehan.

GENERAL WORK.

The protection of the people from zymotic or infectious
diseases, and the work of keeping the city in clean and sanitary
condition, are subjects of the utmost importance, and the Board
has continued to give these matters careful consideration.
Method, system, and an ever watchful eye have characterized
the actions of the Board in all cases, and the results can be seen
in the decided decrease of nuisances and sources of filth.

There are yet several old and dilapidated buildings, the
removal of which would greatly improve the sanitary condition
of the localities in which they exist. Four such buildings have
been removed during the past year by order of the Board.

The appended report of the Health Officer gives detailed
account of this work.

 
 ,
 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
 BACTERIOLOGY.
 Dr. H. C. Emerson was again elected bacteriologist of the
 Board. In all cases of diphtheria or throat trouble of suspici ous nature, the system of bacteriological examinations have
 been continued, and the Board would urge each physician to
exercise due care and promptness in taking swabs for diagnosis
 and release.
The work of this department continues to give the satisfac tion of previous years, and the success of the system can be
readily seen, as out of the cultures examined, were found
 negative hence the danger, expense and annoyance of quaran tining over people has been avoided. .
 Appended ts the report of the Bacteriologist. ,

BAKERIES.
 The Board has decided to adopt more stringent methods
to enforce the compliance of the laws regarding bakeries, and
shall use its best efforts during the coming year to still improve
the general conditions.
 Such inspection of bakeries and their surroundings as is
prescribed by law have been made. In majority of cases
 these important places, where so much of our food product is
manufactured, were found to be in good general condition.
‘Twenty four bakeries are at present in operation in the city.
The Board still endeavors to use its influence against cellar
bakeries, and would advise legislation against the establishment
 of the same.
UNDERTAKERS.
Eleven licenses have been granted during this year. The
undertakers are prompt in“iling the certificates of death, and
are careful in making their returns.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
SLAUGHTER HOUSES. ,

All slaughter houses and manufacturers of sausage and preared meat within the city have been granted licenses by this
Board. Eight licenses have been granted for the manufacture
of sausage, prepared meat and slaughtering.

. The supervision of these places of business has caused an
improvement in the character of the articles furnished to the
public for consumption.

BARBER SHOPS.

Owing to the adoption and strict enforcement of the Board
of Health rules relative to barber shops, thirty four unsanitary
basement and kitchen shops have been closed and it is with
pleasure that the Board reports all barber shops at present complying strictly with the rules.

There are fifty four barber shops in the city.

 FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. .

The Board is pleased to report that there is no cause for
complaint in regard to the sale of decayed fruits and vegetables
and there have been no prosecutions for selling the same during
the past year.

The Board would recommend that no junk dealers be granted
alicense to peddle fruits or vegetables, owing to the fact that
they use the same vehicle for both purposes and frequently store
old junk, rags, fruits, vegetables, etc., in the same building.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR AND PETROLEUM.

The Board can report that the duties of this office are performed in most satisfactory manner, the quality of milk is up
to the standard and there have been very few complaints.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES.
Nineteen applications have been rived for the erection
 or use of buildings as barns or livery stables. ‘hese have rived ca’eful consideration. The locations have been inspected
 and permits have been granted in most cases.
PLUMBERS.

The Board of Plumbing Examiners have examined all applicants referred to them by this Board.

There have been three applications made to the Board for
employing and four for journeyman plumber's licenses.

Four of the above applicants were granted licenses and
three were refused.

Appended is the report of the Plumbing Examiners.

SANITARY INSPECTION.

The Board can report that the work in this division of its
department has been carried on in thorough and satisfactory
manner.

The report of the Inspector of Plumbing shows that there
has been more new work done in the city during the past year

 than in the prding twelve months, and the addition of the
unusual large amount of old work condemned and replaced, together with the required tests, has nssitated large number
of inspections.

A house to house inspection of plumbing is an urgent nssity and the Board would again recommend that special
appropriation be made and the work commenced early in the
year. The report of the Inspector of Plumbing is appended.

VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS. 

The Board is pleased to state that there are comparatively
few vaults remaining in the city, and wherever sewer privileges
have allowed, the use of the vault has been condemned.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

With comparatively little expense to the city, short sewers
withe laterals could be laid, which would allow the Board to
abolish the majority of the remaining vaults.

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

The Walnut street sewer is still nuisance and source of
filth, and its sewage should not be allowed to pass through
the canals. ‘The Board would urge that this nuisance be abated
in the manner already suggested by the City Engineer. 

 The large amount of sewage discharged directly from the
mills into the canals in its course through the city is objectionable from sanitary point of view, and the public health demands
that some other disposal of this sewage should be made.

The Board would again recommend that lateral sewers be
laid on Main street, north and south from Berkshire street and
that some provision be made for the east side of North Summer
street.

The condition of drainage of the houses at Ingleside should
rive consideration, as under the present conditions there is
serious danger of an epidemic in that vicinity.

VITAL STATISTICS.

The Board presents for consideration the following resume
of the vital statistics for the year ending November .

There has been reported during the twelve months, 
deaths and still births, death rate of per cent per
thousand inhabitants, which compared with deaths and 
still births death rate of per cent per thousand reported
last year, shows an increase this year of only deaths or less
than per cent per thousand. ‘This is very satisfactory in a
manufacturing city with the crowded tenement districts here existing.

The appened “Table A” shows the comparative number of
deaths, still births and death rates for the past ten years, to
 inclusive, the average number of deaths being and

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

the average death rate per cent per thousand. In
considering this table the increase in the population of the city
during this period, should be appreciated.

‘Table B” presents the number of deaths and still births
occurring each month during the year, showing that the mortality has been larger during the months of April, May and July
and very light during the months of March, October and November. 

“Table C” shows that of the deaths recorded during
the year, or per cent, were females, and or 
per cent, were males and of the still births, were males and
 were females.

“Table D ” gives the deaths by sex and age, showing that
of the deaths recorded, or per cent, were under 
year of age, Or per cent were under years of age,
and or per cent, had been over so years of age.

During the prding year, or per cent, were
under year of age, or per cent, were under years
of age, and or per cent, were over years of age,
showing that there has been an increase in the number of deaths
under and years of age anda slight decrease in those over
 years of age.

“Table E” presents the exact cause of each death occurring
during the year. It shows that there were deaths from contagious diseases, as compared with deaths from these causes

 during the prding year, although there have been nearly
three times as many cases.of contagious diseases. There were
 deaths from Tuberculosis, as compared with during ,
and deaths from Cancer, as compared with during the prding year. In the nervous diseases there is decrease of 
deaths from the number reported last year, and an increase in
deaths due to respiratory and violent causes.

“Table F” gives the number of deaths occurring in the various institutions of the city and in each ward. This will be of
interest as showing the portion of the city in which the greatest
and smallest number of deaths have occurred. We find, as has
existed during the prding years, the greatest number of

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
deaths have occured in wards and while ward has had the
smallest number. or per cent of the total deaths of
the city occurred in the institutions.

The death rate of the city is increased to considerable 
extent by the deaths in the institutions of the city, of non resi 
dents who are brought here for care and treatment.

In “Table G” will be found the nativity of those dying in
the city during Of the deaths, were born in Holyoke in Massachusetts otherwise anda total of in the
United States were born in Ireland in Canada in
Germany in England in Scotland and the remainder in
the other foreign countries.

‘“ Table H” presents the place of interment of all bodies
buried in the city, and the bodies sent away for burial. It
shows that during the year bodies were brought to Holyoke

 and sent away for burial. Nine hundred and thirty three
burial permits have been issued from the office during the year.
TABLE A.

Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births and
death rates for the past ten years.

Deaths Still Births Total Death Rate

Average death rate for ten years, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE B.
Shows deaths and still births during .
Deaths Still Births Total
Dmber, . 
January, . QO 
Februarv, . 
March, 
April, . gI
May, . er gl
June, . 
July, .
August, to,. 
September, to 
October, $ 
November,. . 
Total, 
TABLE C.
Showing sex of deaths and still births during .
Deaths. Still births.
Male. Female. Male. Female. Total.
Dmber, . 
January, I 
February. I 
March, ., 
April,.SI gi
May, se gt
June, I 
July, se 
August, 
September, 
October, . I 
November, 
Total, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE D.
Showing deaths by sex and age.
Female. Male. Total.
Under one year, 
From one to two, . 
From two to three, . 
From three to four, . 
From four to five, . 
From five to ten, Is
From ten to fifteen, . II
From fifteen to twenty, 
From twenty to thirty, 
From thirty to forty,, 
From forty to fifty, CO
From fifty to sixty, . 
From sixty to seventy, 
From seventy to eighty, . 
Over eighty, ., 
Unknown, ,
Total, 
TABLE F.

Showing cause of each death occurring during the year .
Diphtheria, . Cancer of nose, . I
Measles, ., S “ “intestines, 
Scarlet fever, stomach, 
Typhoid fever,. liver, 
Membranous Croup, I “ “ tongue, .I
Cerebro sp. fever, . peritoneum, I
Septicaemia, ., I “ “uterus, . 
Rheumatism,, “rectum,I
Anaemia, . “ “ovary,I
Phthisis, Pulmonalis, “ penis, I

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

Tuber. of peritoneum. Cancer of pancreas, I
“ “ bladder, . “ not stated, I
 Jaryngitis, Otitis Media,. I
 kidney, Scrofula,. I
“ meninges, Syphilis, 
“ not stated, Erysipelas, . 

Total, . . S 
NERVOUS DISEASES.

Ascending spinal paralysis, Cerebral abscess, . I

Meningitis, . Paralysis, I

Paraplegia, Myelitis, I

Epilepsy, Tetanus, .I

Alcoholism, . Neurasthenia,. I

Infantile convulsions, Dementia, 

Apoplexy, Maniaa Potu, . I

Cerebral Congestion, Sclerosis of spine, I

Spina bifida, . Cerebral Embolism, I

Paresis, . Hydrocephalus, . I

Total, to 
URINARY DISEASES.

Brizht’s Disease, . Cystitis, ., I

Parenchymatous Nephritis, Diabetes Mellitus, 

Interstitial Nephritis, Post Diph. Nephritis, I

Uraemia, . 

Total, , 
DIGESTIVE DISEASES.

Enteritis,, Intestinal obstruction, 

Gastro enteritis, . Intestinal ulceration, I

Entero colitis, . Appendicitis, . 

Dysentery, . Peritonitis, . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Cholera Infantum, Gastric ulcer, .I
Cirrhosis of liver, Inanition,., 
Fatty liver, Jaundice, . ,
Hepatitis,. Acute Indigestion, 
Gastritis, Jf, Strangulated Umb. Hernia, 
Marasmus, 

Total, .,, 

CIRCULATORY DISEASES.

Heart Disease, not stated, Aortic insufficiency, 
Embolism, . Ulcer Endocarditis, I
Fatty Heart, Septic “ . I
Mitral Regurgitation, Rheumatic “, I .
Aortic “ Angina Pectoris, 
Cardiac Paralysis of Heart, Artero Cap. Fibrosis, I
Endocarditis, . Senile gangrene, . I
Myo Carditis,, Cardiac Hypertrophy, I
Artero sclerosis, Cony. malformation of
Valvular dis. of Heart, Heart, ., I
Mitral insufficiency, Purpura haemorrhagica, I
Cardiac dilation, Mitral Stenosis, .I

Total, ., 

RESPIRATORY DISEASES.

Congestion of Lungs, Asthma,. I 
Pneumonia, . Croup, . 
Broncho pneumonia, Pleurisy,, 
Catarrhal pneumonia, Empyema. I
Bronchitis, . Pulmonary oedma,. I
Capillary Bronchitis, Laryngismus Stridulus, I
Influenza, . Whooping cough, . 

Total, 

Igo REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
GENERATIVE DISEASES.
Puerperal Eclampsia, Cellulitis of Scrotum, I
Double Salpingitis, Pyo Cystic tumor of
Puerperal Septicaemia, Ovary, . I
Puerperal Fever, . Sacroma of Ovary,I
 Total, ., . . 
VIOLENT’ CAUSES.
Opium poison,, Suicide, throat cut, I
Suffocation during drinking, Suicide, insanity, exhaustion, 
Suffocation from quinsy, Suicide by drowning, I
Suffocation in sand bank, Suicide by railroad train, I
Asphyxiation, accidental,. Suicide by Paris Green, I
Fracture of femur, Suicide by hanging, I
Fracture of skull, . Suicide by Chloral Hydrate, 
Fracture of vertebrae, Suicide, shooting, mania, I
Sugrical shock, . Homicide, throat cut, I
Burned to death, . Homicide, shot in head, I
Strangulated by milk curds, Accidental drowning, 
Multiple fracture of arm, Internal injuries, run over
Decapitation by railroad by team, .I
train, . I 
Total, . 
UNCLASSIFIED.
Infantile debility, . Oldage, . ' 
Senile debility,. Atelectasis, . I
Congenital debility, Elephantiasis, . I
Premature birth, . 
Total, . . . 
Total deaths from all causes, .

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. IgI
TABLE F.
Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city, and
the various institutions.
Ward One,,,,, 
 Two,., 
“ Three 
“Four,,,,, 
“Five,,,, 
“Six, . . 
‘Seven, . . . . 
House of Prov. Hosp., Almshouse, . 
Brightside, . Harkins Home, 
City Hospital,. Mt. St. Vincent, .I
Total, . 
TABLE G. ,
Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during the
year .
Holyoke,, Scotland,. 
Massachusetts, Russia, ., 
Other States, Switzerland, ., 
/ Poland,, 
Total United States, § Austria, 
 Treland, . France, , I
Canada,, Italy, .,I
Germany, Nova Scotia, I
England, . Sweden,, I
Unknown, . 
Total, ot,, . 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE H.

Showing the place of interment of those dying in the city
and those brought here for burial during Still births included. 

Calvary,, Brightside, . I
Elmwood, ., West Holyoke, oO
Forestdale, So. Hadley Falls, . 
St. Jerome, . Out of town, otherwise 
Local Burials, .,,. 
Brought to Holyoke for burial,, 
Sent from Holyoke for burial, ., 
Total number of burial permits issued, 
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.

 With the exception of an epidemic of measles the city has
been very free from disease of contagious nature during the
year. Small pox again made its appearance, but was of mild 
character and was readily controlled.

The fatalities from diseases of this class have been very
small, and comparison of the number of cases and deaths from
the same with that of last year very interesting.

The number of cases are as follows

Scarlet Typhoid Small Memb.
Diphtheria. Measles. Fever. Fever. Pox. Croup. Total.
Igo. 
 To ,
DEATHS.
 g. IO 
 
DIPHTHERIA.

There have been reported during the year cases of diphtheria, with deaths, death rate of per cent as compared

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
with cases and deaths, death rate of per cent
during The disease has prevailed to some extent throughout the entire year, and has been most prevalent in Wards Two,
Four and Five respectively.

MEASLES.

An epidemic of measles began in the month of February,
lasting until the first of June. The disease was very mild in
character, there being few deaths. ‘There were reported during
the year cases with deaths, death rate of per cent
as compared with cases and deaths, death rate of 
per cent reported during The disease was prevalent
throughout the city, Wards One, Two and Four suffering the
most. .

SCARLET FEVER.

Scarlet fever has been evident throughout the year 
cases with deaths, death rate of per cent, having been
reported. ‘This disease has also been general throughout the
city, no locality being free from it.

TYPHOID FEVER.

There has been reported during the year, cases of typhoid fever with deaths, death rate of per cent, as
compared with cases and deaths, death rate of 
per cent, during ‘This disease has not been limited to
any class or locality and most cases have been traced to points
of contagion outside the city.

SMALL POX.

Small pox existed in the city during the months of March,
April and May, when ro cases were reported with no fatalities.
The disease was brought here from Canada and was very mild
in character, requiring no large expense in controlling it.



‘
 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

 There were in all cases of contagious nature, with 
deaths, death rate of per cent as compared with cases
 
 and deaths, death rate of per cent during .
The appended tables give detail of these cases.
 CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL.
The Board would once again call attention to the imperative need of hospital for the care of diseases of contagious
 nature, especially diphtheria aud scarlet fever. The value of
 such institutions is being realized more and more each year and
many of the cities of the state now have such accommodations
which greatly aid in the control of epidemics of such diseases.
With our large tenement districts, it is evident that we should
have such building at our command in the city, 
PEST HOUSE.
The present pest house in use by the city is well suited in
most ways and furnishes very satisfactory as well as secluded
place of confinement for persons suffering with small pox. Im 
 provements should however be made in the sanitary arrangements. A sanitary system should be arranged to remove the
 sewage from the building and satisfactory rptacle made
for the same. A small addition should also be added to include
a disinfecting room for those who are obliged to visit the building, and also bathroom for the use of the patients. These
nssities are indispensable and should rive immediate
attention.
TABLE L. 
 Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months
 Scarlet Typhoid Memb. Small
Diph. Meas. Fever. Fever. Croup. Pox. Total.
 Dmber, 
 January, I 
 February, I go
 March, I I 


REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Scarlet Typhoid Memb. Small
Diph. Meas. bever. Fever. Croup. Pox Total.
April, 
May, . I 
June, . 
July, 
August, S I 
September, I 
October, tt I 
November, 
Total, 
TABLE M.
Showing contayious diseases by wards.
eo Wards Y ‘Total.
I 
Diphtheria, 
Scarlet Fever, 
Measles, S 
Memb. Croup, I 
Small Pox, 
Typhoid Fever, 
Total, tog 
TABLE N.
Showing number of deaths from contagious diseases during
 .
Scarlet Typhoid Memb. Small
Diy htheria. Fever. Measles. Fever. Croup. Pox. Total.
Dmber,. . 
January, . I I
February, . i
March, . . I I 
Apri, 
May, I 
June, . . I 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Scarlet Typhoid Memb. Small
Diphtheria. Fever. Measles. Fever. Croup. Pox. Total,
July, . . 
August,. . I Io I 
September, . 
October, . I I
November,. . I I
Total, 
FINANCIAL SPATEMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the Board for
the year ending November .
Appropriation, Jt, $. 
‘Fransfer from continger'. 
Ripts, . . 
Total, ., $ 
EXPENDITURES.
Regular monthly bills, ., $. 
Regular pay roll, 
Milk department bills, 
Bills for Small Pox, 
Pay roll for Small Pox, 
Balance transferred, , 
Total, . , $. 
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR B. WETHERELL, M. D., Chairman,
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D., Secretary,
JEREMIAH J. LINEHAN, Health Officer.
Board of Health.

REPORT OF THE HEALTH OFFICER. 
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN TI hereby submit report of your Health
Officer for During the past year the number of minor
nuisances has decreased, but the amount of food products destroyed has increased. This is partly due to fire in South
Holyoke, where the Board, after careful consideration, decided
that said food was unfit for use.

Under rule, and one which I think very wise one, all
applicants for license to peddle vegetables, fruit and other 
products is referred to the Board of Health, which in every case 
is carefully investigated as to the storage of these goods. Of
the many cases referred to the Board, only three were refused a
license for lack of residence or location.

Other duties performed by your officer are sufficiently set
forth in the accompanying tables. Several verbal and minor
complaints have been attended to which were not of sufficient 
importance to be entered upon the records.

NOTICES SERVED AND PRODUCTS DESTROYED.
Grapes destroyed baskets, ., 
Dead animals removed, . . . 
Decayed melons destroyed, , 
Decayed bananas destroyed bunches, . IO
Decayed berries destroyed quarts, ., 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Jelly destroyed pails, .,, 
Cheese destroyed pounds, 
Canned goods destroyed cans, ., 
Butter destroyed pounds,. . 
Cabbage destroyed heads, ,. 
 Leeks destroyed bunches, . . 

Decayed fish destroyed pounds, . 
Decayed meat destroyed pounds, 
Swill cans ordered, ae 
Dirty yards ordered cleaned, .,, 
Dirty cellars ordered cleaned, 
Ash chutes ordered cleaned, .,, 
Stables ordered cleaned, .,. 
Dirty markets ordered cleaned, .,, 
Dirty fish carts ordered cleaned,, 
Dirty tenements ordered cleaned,, 

 Vacant houses ordered cleaned, 
Workshops ordered cleaned, , 
Manure piles ordered removed, . 
Rooms fumigated, ., 
Contagious disease cards posted, 
Dirty mattresses destroyed, 
Meat, decayed, in alley, ordered removed, .I.
Hens in cellar ordered removed, . , 
Pigeons in cellar and building ordered removed, 
Water in cellar ordered removed,. VI
Pigs in cellar ordered removed, , 
Throwing dirty water in street ordered stopped, . 
Barns closed, . . on 
Premises ordered vacated, . . . 
Buildings closed and condemned,, 
Buildings removed, ., . 
Rags in tenements ordered removed, ., 
Rags in cellars ordered removed, . I
Dirty chicken coops ordered cleaned,, 
Garbage in cellars ordered cleaned, ., 



REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Manure water in street ordered removed, . 
Dirty milk carts ordered cleaned, . . 
Night soil in street ordered removed, 
Legal notices served, . . . 
Fish refuse ordered removed, . . ,
Filthy stores ordered cleaned, o. 
 Cellars damp, ordered repaired, . 
House offal on land ordered removed, . 
Offensive odors in buildings,,. 
Untidy premises, .," 
Rubbish in cellars ordered removed, ., 
Houses and yards inspected, . . 
Swill nuisances,. .,. 
Houses without water ordered supplied, ., 
Stagnant water nuisance, ., 
Minor nuisances abated, . 
Bottled goods destroyed bottles, , 
Vegetables destroyed bushels ., . 
Cereal foods destroyed packages, ., 
Tea destroyed pounds, 
Cocoanut destroyed pounds ,gt
Coffee destroyed pounds, .,. 
Spices destroyed pounds, .,, 
Crackers destroyed barrels, .,, 
Dried fruit destroyed pounds, . . 
Pickles destroyed pails, . . 
Pickles destroyed jars ., 
Maple syrup destroyed bottles, 
Flour destroyed bags, . ., 
Sugar destroyed barrel, .,. 
Salt destroyed barrel .,,ly,
Miscellaneous food destroyed barrels, 
The condition of tenement property still continues to improve and will now compare favorably with that of any city of
this size.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

In conclusion wish to return thanks to his Honor the
Mayor, my assistant Mr. John S. O’Neil, Marshal Wright and the
Police Department, to the members of the Board, and all other
city officials, for their courtesy and cooperation, which has been
of great assistance to me in my work.

Respectfully submitted, .
J. J. LINEHAN,
Health Officer.

REPORT OF THE
INSPECTOR OF PLUMBING

To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN AsS Inspector of Plumbing I have the honor
of submitting the tenth annual report for the fiscal year ending
November .

The following table will show to some extent the nature of
the work
Water closets put in new buildings,, . 
Sinks cea ‘“ ., 
Baths co“ “ .,. 
Bowls cea “ 
Wash trays “ & “ .,, 
Urinals cw“ “, ., II
Traps “cm “ ., 
Water closets put in old buildings, so . 
Sinks comm “ ., 
Baths cou“ “e .,, 
Bowls co“ “ .,. 
Wash trays “ “& & “,, 
Urinals cw “ 
Traps ce“ “ 
Number of permits granted, ., 
Water tests made, . , 
Inspection of houses for defective plumbing, .
Inspections made of old and new plumbing, 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances,, 



 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

Each case has complied with the requirements of the Board.
In addition to the inspection of old and new plumbing, great
many examinations and peppermint tests have been made at the
requests of owners, agents and tenants, and in most cases defective plumbing has been repaired on verbal notification from the
inspector without any action by the Board, and of which no
records have been made.

Your Inspectior would call your attention to the growing
demand made on his time by reason of complaints regarding
imperfect plumbing and nuisances pertaining to same. These
complaints frequently take up the entire time of the Inspector
and as the general public now realize that imperfect and unsanitary plumbing is menace to health, the complaints are constantly increasing.

The sanitary condition of Hillside Hospital calls for immediate action. A fumigating and bath room should be installed
for the use of convalescent patients and proper disposal made
of the sewage. The continued use of the privy vault in its present location is to be condemned and in the opinion of the
writer there is grave danger of the pollution of the water of the
surrounding country by the present general sanitary conditions,
which are positively dangerous when the house is occupied by
small pox patients.

A house to house inspection is an urgent nssity and the
work should be commenced immediately.

In conclusion I desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and cooperation.

Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.





REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF PLUMBING EXAMINERS.
Lo the Board of Health,
GENTLEMEN The report of the Board of Plumbing Examiners for the fiscal year ending November is hereby
respectfully submitted.
Number of applications for Employing Plumbers’
examinations, . . . 
Number of applications for Journeyman Plumbers’
examinations, . . 
Number of. applicants recommended to the Board of
Health as not qualified to rive an Employing
Plumbers’ license, . . . 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of
Health as qualified to rive Journeyman
Plumbers’ license,. . 
The number of applications for examinations have diminished during the year as the plumbers realize the fact that they
must be thoroughly competent before taking examination. ‘The
result is that the city saves considerable money for examining
incompetent men and the general class of mechanics are improved.
Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELE, M.D,
JAMES L. TIGH EF, City Engineer,
MARTIN BOWF, Practical Plamber.
Attest. F. L. AVERY, Secretary.

REPORT OF THE BACTERIOLOGIST.
To the Board of Health, City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN I have the honor to present the following
report for the year ending November .

. One hundred and sixty three cases have been referred to
me for examination, which is less than Jast year. Of these,
 proved to be positive, that is showing the presence of diphtheria germs, and were negative. The feature of interest in
this year’s work has been the fact that all but cases were referred to me at the beginning of the illness of the patient, thus
determining positively whether the inflammation of the throat or
nose was due to diphtheria bacilliorsome other germ. Of these
 cases that were sent for release only, but one proved positive,
and there must bean element of doubt as to the kind of infection
occurring inthe remaining It is probably impossible for a
diagnostic culture to be sent in every case, but it seems to me
that your Board is to be congratulated on the small number of
cases in which this precautionary measure is not observed.

For the first time in the four years that I have done the
bacteriological work for the Board, the number of cases for
diagnosis that proved negative were greater than those in which
diphtheria germs were found, and it is interesting to note that
in more than twenty of these negative cases the clinical diagnosis of diphtheria was made in addition to the fact that all
must have been considered as possible diphtherias.

The following is the monthly record of cases examined.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
CASES EXAMINED .
For Diagnosis. For Release.

Positive. Negative. Positive. Negative. Total.
Dmber, 
January, 
February, 
March, I I 
April, I 
May 
June, I 
July, 
August, I 
September, 
October, 
November, 
Total, I II 

Total cases submitted for examination, . 
Total cultures examined from above cases, Positive, 
Total cultures examined from above cases, Negative, 
Total cultures, . . . 
 Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT C. EMERSON, M. D.,
Bacteriologist.
Dmber .
Springfield, Mass.


