ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
BOARD OF HEALTH
 OF THE 
 CITY OF HOLYOKE
FOR THE YEAR 
SEM
. TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CO.,
HOLYOKE, MASS.
 

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
Arthur B. Wetherell, M. D., Chairman.
Frank A. Woods, M. D., Secretary.
J. Sidney Wright.
EXECUTIVE STAFF.
J. Sidney Wright, Health Officer.
Frank L. Avery, Inspector of Plumbing.
John S$. O'Neill, Sanitary Inspeetor.
John M. Carlon, Inspector of Meat and Provisions.
James K. Morrill, Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum.
James Thompson, Assistant to Inspeetor of Milk.
Thomas J. Shinkwin, Inspector of Animals. 
J. Joseph Carroll, M. D Bacteriologist.
Ehzabeth G. Shea, Clerk.

To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke

GZENTLEMEN In compliance with the Public Statutes,
the Board of Health herewith respectfully submit for your consideration the thirtieth annual report.

ORGANIZATION.

The Board met for organizaticn the first Monday in
February, electing the following offieers Arthur B.
Wetherell, M. D., Chairman, Frank A. Woods, M. D., Seeretary.

PUBLIC HEALTITI.

During the vear ending November the Board
has endeavered to extend the work of this department in all
of its varicus lines. The constantly inereasing number of
complaints and petitions add greatly to the work of the Board,
requiring as they do in large majority cf eases, inspection of
the premises invelved.

This means cerresponding inereese in the amount of
work by the members of the Board.

GENERAL WORK.

The general work of keeping the eity clean requires
much more time, care and attention by the members of the
Board than is evident to any one who does not take especial
interest in the work and thus look into the subject.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE
BOARD OF HEALTH
 OF THE 
CITY OF HOLYOKE

FOR THE YEAR 
Gig I

. TRANSCRIPT PUBLISHING CO.,
HOLYOKE, MASS.

 .

MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
Arthur B. Wetherell, M. D., Chairman.
Frank A. Woods, M. D., Secretary.
J. Sidney Wright.
EXECUTIVE STAFF.
J. Sidney Wright. Health Officer.
Frank L. Avery, Inspector of Plumbing.
John S. O'Neill, Sanitary Inspeetor.
John M. Carlon, Inspeetor of Meat and Provisions.
James WK. Mormill, Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum. 
James Thompson, Assistant to Inspector of Milk.
Thomas J. Shinkwin, Inspector of Animals. 
J. Joseph Carroll, M. D., Bacteriologist.
Elizabeth G. Shea, Clerk.


'
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the a
City of Holyoke .
GENTLEMEN In compliance with the Public Statutes, Fs
the Board of Health herewith respectfully submit for your .
consideration the thirtieth annual report.
ORGANIZATION. The Board met for organizaticn the first Monday im February, electing the following officers Arthur B.
Wetherell, M.D Chaimman Frank A. Woods, M. D Seeretary.
PUBLIC HEALTH. During the vear ending November the Board 
has endeavered to extend the work of this department in all
of its various lines. The eonstantly inereasing mumber of 
complaints and petitiens add greatly to the work of the Board, .
rejuiring as they do in large majority of cases, Inspection of
the premises invelved., 
This means eerresponding increase in the amount of
work by the members of the Board. 
GENERAL WORK.
The general work of keeping the city clean requires .
much more time, care and attention by the members of the
Board than is evident toe any one who does not take especial 
interest in the work and thus look into the subject.

 KEPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

Much cf this werk hes in abating small nuisances which
eifect culy the loealities in whieh they exist. Dirty cellars,
tenements, stores and other buildings come under this head
and upon this work, many times, depends the health of the
locality. This tenement work not only tends to directly decrease the mortality but is great aid in the prevention of

' epidemies. If each property owner would see to it that his
tenements and their surroundings are kept in clean condition, it would greatly aid this Board in this very important
work.

The Board wish to again recommend that house to
house inspection of plumbing be made. That there is still
mueh plumbing within the city which needs the attention of
the Board is evident, but it is impossible for this Board
with its present foree to make this desired inspection.

It is recommended that special appropriation be made
for this work and that at least part of the work be done during the coming year.

BAKERIES.

 Such yearly inspections of the bakeries and their surroundings as is preseribed by law have been made. Taken as
a whole, these important places where so much of our food
products ave manufactured, have been found in good eondtion. A number of minor changes have been suggested and
their enforcement will be earefully attended to. There are
at present twenty nine bakeries within the city.

BARBER SHOPS.

The barber shops have been inspected and rules and regulations have been posted in each shop. There are at present
sixty two barber shops in the city.

UNDERTARERS.

Under the provisions of Section Chapter of the
Revised Laws. fourteen persons have been duly licensed as

undertakers.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
SLAUGHTER HOUSES.
All slaughter houses and manufacturers of sausage and
prepared meat within the city are now granted licenses by
this Board.
The supervision of the places of business of those thus
engaged has caused an improvement in the character of articles furnished to the public for consumption.
The Inspector of Meat and Provisions is in full co operation with the Board, and as result, there is less diseased
meat offered for sale.
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL. 
The Board would again eall attention to the need of ,
hospital for the isolation and eare of diseases of conta 
gious nature, especially diphtheria and searlet fever. The 
value of such an institution is being realized more and more ,
each vear, and many cities of the state have such hospitals
which greatly aid in the control of epidemies of these dis 
cases. ,
BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES.
, All appheations for the erection or use of buildings as
barns or livery stables have rived careful attention, and
the sites of their location have been inspected. Licenses for
the construction and use of sueh have been granted with a
few exceptions. People are becoming more familiar with this
law and there is less tendeney of the evasion of same.
LOCK UP.
The Board inust again eall attention to the loek up.
Some other place than the present quarters should be provided at once for the accommodation of the Pohee Department. The present quarters are not only too small but are
unsuited for their present use. The Board would recommend
that seme action be imuediately taken toward remedying
this inatter. The loek up demands immediate attention, This

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

room is nsisty, and the present one is unfit for human

oeccupaney. Some system of ventilation should be established.
MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS.

Medical inspection of schools is one of the most important branches of the. health department, the purpose of
which is to protect healthy children from diseased and infected children, by examinatiun, isolation and calling attention to the Board of Health, and the parents to defective and
diseased children that medical attention may be secured, and
thereby aid in assisting toward the development of sound
mind in healthy body, which is the first essential for an
education.

With the appointment of school physicians only part of
the real work of medical inspection of schools has been accomphshed. There should be some one to see that the instructions of the inspectors are carried out, some one with
technical knowledge to instruct the parents as to the care of
the eves and ears, and the nssity of the care of the skin.

The appointment of school nurse is recommended.

TUBERCULOSIS.

The widespread prevalence of this” fatal disease has
aroused almost universal concerted action on the part of health
officials, the medical profession and the humanitarians. to
prevent its ravages and to care for its victims. The trouble
lies in the fact that the public is used to having this disease
in its midst, it is gradual in its onset, it does not cause death
in few days or weeks, and it is difficult to prove to an individual when he has contracted the disease.

Prevention is the great problem in’ considering this
disease. If the people can be brought to realize that there are
eonditions to be observed and earried out by the tubercular
patient that will make his condition more bearable and safeeuard his friends. we shall then begin to see results. There
is no one Who can bring this knowledge home to the patient

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
afflicted with tuberculosis with so much force and conviction as
the family physician. We look forward, therefore, to the profession with much confidence, not only in its ability, but its
desire to prevent the further spread of this disease.

The members of the Board of Health wish to express
their sincere thanks to His Honor, the Mayor, and the Board
of Aldermen, for the very generous appropriation granted
for the erection of Tuberculosis Hospital, which we believe
will be great benefit to the whole city.

TABLE A.

Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births 

and death rates for the year to inclusive 
Still Death

Deaths, births. Rate. Total.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE B.
Showing deaths and still births during the year
StillDeaths. births. Total.
Dmber,,., 
January,. ., 
February,,,, 
March,,,, 
April,,, 
May,,,, 
June, .,., 
July, .,, 
August,, 
September,. . 
October, 
November,,. . 
Tetal,,,. 
TABLE C.
Showing sex of deaths and still births during 
. Malcs Females Males Females
Deaths Still births Total
Dmber,., 
January,,, 
February, Lo, 
Mareh, G 
April, .,, 
May.,, 
June, . . G 
July, . a? 
August, . . 
“September, 
October,. . 
November, 
Total, . . D 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

TABLE D.

Showing deaths by sex and age
Males. Females. Total.
Under year,,. 
From lto .,. 
From to . 
From to .,. 
From to .,, 
From to ,, . 
From to ,., 
From to , 
From to ., 
From to , 
From to , sl
From to , ., 
From to . . £ 
From to 
Over . . . 
Total,, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE E.

Showing the number of deaths occurring at the various

ages, during each month
Sa ds § FP BEsE F
 &

Ander year, 
From to 
From to odo 
From to 
From to a, tT ,
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to T 
From to 
From to 
Over & 

Total, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE F.
Showing the number of deaths from each of the followIng causes, occurring in the city during the year 
GENERAL.
Diphtheria,. Pyaemia, . 
Measles, ., oO Ervysipelas, 
Typhoid Fever, . Aleoholism, . 
Cancer, Sup. Maxillary, Tuber. of Femur, . 
Cancer, Pra Mater, . Pernicious Anaemia, .
Cancer of Uterus, . Sarcoma of Knee, . 
Cancer of Stomach, . Sarcoma of Liver, . 
Cancer of Liver, . Sareoma of Inguinal glands, 
Caneer of Sigmoid, . Sarcoma of Breast, . lCancer of Intestines, . Heat Prostration, . 
Caneer of Pelvis, . Rheumatism, Chronie, 
Caneer of Viseera,. Anthrax, . dt
Cancer of Mediastinum, Syphils, Congenital, 
Cancer of Tongue, . Septicaemia, 
Cancer of Reetum, . Osteo Sareoma of Skull, 
Total, ., .,. 
URINARY DISEASES.
Bricht‘s Disease, . §& Neph., Chr. Parenchy., 
Uraemia,. Diabetes Mellitus, . 
Nephritis, Acute, . Hemorrhage of Kidney, 
Nephritis, Chr. Interstitial, Chronie Cystitis, . dt
Total,.,,, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
NERVOUS DISEASES.
Apoplexy, . Meningitis, Acute, . 
Hemiplegia, to Meningitis, Septic, . 
Locomotor Ataxia, . Meningitis,Cerebro Spinal, 
Cerebral Hemorrhage, Spina Biffida, . dt
Cerebral Embolism, . Acute Poliomyelitis, 
Cerebral Congestion, Locomotor Ataxia, . dt
Cerebral Softening, . Paresis, . . dt
Cerebral Tumor,. Tetanus, il
Epilepsy,, Hydrocephalus, . 
Chorea Major, . Paralytica Dementia, 
Total, . . . . 
GENERATIVE DISEASES.
Puerperal Septicaemia, Puerperal Convulsions, 
Post Partum Haemorrhage, 
Total, . ., 
DIGESTIVE DISEASES.
Cholera Infantum, . Convulsions, Infantile. 
Enteritis, Acute, Indigestion, . ot
Gastro Enteritis, . Intestinal Obstruetion, 
Gastritis, Acute Intestinal Intersuseeption, 
Gastrie Uleer, Uleerative Colitis, . tI
Tleo Colitis,, Appendicitis, 
Mal Nutrition, Choleoeystitis,. 
Marasmus, Gall Stones, id
Inanition, Duodenal Ulcer, . 
Peritonitis, Acute, . Ivterus Neonatoram, 
Peritonitis, Septic, . Stricture of Eosophagus, 
Peritonitis, Traumatic, Dysentery, . 
Peritonitis, Tubereular, Stenosis of Pyloris, . 
 Stranculated Hernia, Fatty Degen. of Heart. 
Entero Colitis, . Nevrosis of Jaw, dl
Tlepatie Cirrhosis, . i
Total,.,,. so

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
CIRCULATORY DISEASES. .
Heart Disease, not stated, Endoearditis, Chronic, 
Heart Dilation, . Endocarditis, Uleerative, 
Mitral Insufficiency, Arterio Sclerosis, . 
Mitral Reeurgation, . Failure Foramen Ovale,. 
Valvular Disease of Heart, Endocarditis, Acute, 
Mvoearditis, Semile, Gangrene, . dt
Angina Ptoris, . Puerpura Haemorrhagieca, 
Aortie Insufficiency, Pericarditis, . dl
Aortic Regurgitation, Fatty Degen. of Heart, 
Umblhical Haemorrhage, Endoearditis, Malignant, 
Myolog. Leukaemia, Thoracie Anurism, dt
Total, . 
RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Pulmonary Tubereulosis, Pleurisy,, 
Pulmonary Embolism, Emphysema, 
Pulmonary Oedema, Influenza, 
Tubereular Meningitis, Laryneismus Stridulus, 
Pnewnonia, . Bronehitis, Pur, . 
Congestion of Lungs, Bronchitis, Chronie, 
Whooping Cough, . & Bronchitis, Acute, .
Act. Larynyitis. IL Bronchial Asthma. . dl
Total, .,. .
VIOLENT DISEASES.

Suicide, Drownme, . Internal Haemorrhace, 
Suicide, Chloroform, Head Crushed, . tI
Suicide, Cutting Throat, Crushed to Death, . d
Suicide, Morphine, Carbohe Acid Burns, 
Burns,. . € Multiple Fractures, dl
Fracture of Hip Aced. Suffocation, . dt
Fracture of Skull, . Aeed. Drowning, . 
Fracture of Spine Asphyxia Neonatorum, 
Fracture of Uumerus, Crushed by Train. . 
Total, . . . 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
 UNCLASSIFIED.
Senile Asthenia,. Otitis Media, d
. Blue Baby, . Amygdatitis, i
P. B.,, . Multiple Abseesses, 
Congenital Asthenia, Surgical Shoek, . oo.
 Atelectasis, . Dermatitis, Expl.,. . dt
. Uleer of Leg, . 
Total, . 
TABLE G.
Showing the deaths oceurring in each ward in he city
and the various institutions
Ward . . 
Ward ,, 
Ward ,,,, 
Ward ,,,. 
Ward .,, , 
Ward ,.a 
Ward 
Total,,,. 
Holyoke City Hospital, .
‘VWouse of Providence Hospital,,, ‘
City Farm,,. . . .
Brightside Institution, ., ed
Mt. St. Vineent Institution, .,. 
Harkins’ Home,.,,
Beaven Kelley TTIome,,, oo"
ano
Total,,, 
Total deaths oeeurrine in the wards and instity® ,
tions,, , oa 
 
Non resicents, . . ie

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE H.
Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during
the year 
Holyoke, . Poland, 
Massachusetts, . Italy, ., D
Other States, . New Brunswick, ,
 Switzerland, 
Total, United States, India, ., 
Ireland, . . Denmark, ., 
Canada,, Nova Seotia, ., 
‘Germany,, Sweden,, 
England, ., Gre, 
Austria, . Wales,, 
Russia, . Unknown,, 
Seotland, Total,. ., 
TABLE K.
Showing the interment of those dying in the eity and
those brought here for burial during Still births included. 
Calvary, . West Holvoke, 
Elinwood,, South Hadley Falls, 
Forestdale, Out of Town otherSt. Jerome, . wise,. 
Local Burials,,.,. 
Brought to Holyoke for Bunial, .,. d
Sent from Holyoke for Burial, .,. 
Total number of burial permits issued,. 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE L.

Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months

. GCyw ne . 

xy £€§ $ & € FF & E

F€ais &€ F Ze

Diphtheria FT 
Scarlet Fever £ 
Measles 
Whooping Cough 
Chicken Pox 
Typhoid Fever $ 
Memb, Croup 
Tuberculosis 
Cerebro Sp. Meng. 
Oph. Neonatorum £ 
Ant. Poliomyelitis 
Total S G 

TABLE M.
Showing contagious diseases by wards .

 Total

Diphtheria, 
Scarlet Fever, $ 
Measles, & 
Whooping Cough, 
Chieken Pox, 
Typhoid Fever, 
Memb. Croup, 
Tubereulosis, WwW WW R®
Cerebro Sp. Meng. kd 
Oph. Neonatorum, ’
Ant. Poliomyelitis, lp
Total, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

The following is the financial statement of the Board of
Health for the year ending November 
Appropriation, ., $. 
Ripts, . 
Additional Appropriation, 

 $. 
Salaries,, $. 
Recular Monthly Bulls,, . 
Milk Department Bills,, 
Balanee, . 
 $. 
Respeetfuly submitted,
ARTHUR B. WETHERELL, M. D.,
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D.,
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
Board of Health.

Report of the Health Officer.
 
Yo the Board of Health of the City of Holyoke
GENTLEMEN I submit herewith my report for the year
ending November 

Number of complaints investigated, 
Number of tenements inspected, 
Number of tenements ordered cleaned, ., da
Number of cellars inspected,,. 
Number of cellars ordered cleaned,,. 
Number of yards inspected. .,, 
Number of yards ordered cleaned, , 
Nuuber of ash chutes ordered cleaned., WW
Number of stables inspected, .,. AT
Number of stables ordered cleaned. 
Number of eesspools ordered cleaned, , d
Number of privy vaults ordered cleaned, 

Nunber of cellars hens and pigeons ordered removed
from, oo,,, 
Number of cellars pigs ordered removed from, 
Niunber of swill cans ordered cleaned, .,dv
Number of mattresses destroved, , 
Number of notices sent, ., , 
Number of dead animals removed, 
Number of cards posted, ., 
, Number of rooms fumigated, ., . Fob
Number of sehool rooms fumigated. 
Number of inspections, stores and markets, L 

Respeetfully submitted,
 J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
Health Officer.

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing. 
To the Board of Health ,

GENTLEMEN As Inspector of Plumbing, I have the 
honor of submitting the seventeenth annual report for the ,

. fiseal year ending November 

The following table will show to some extent the amount
and nature of the work ,
Water closets put in new buildings, . F 
Sinks put in new buildings, .Co,. 
Baths put in new buildings,, 
Bowls put in new buildings, . 
Wash trays put in new buildings, r 
Urinals put in new buildings, . 
Traps put in new buildings, ., ,
Water elcsets put in old buildings, B 
Sinks put in old buildings, . , 
Baths put in old buildings, 
Bowls put in old buildings, 
Wash trays put in old buildings, 
Crinals put in old buildings, 
Traps put in old buildings, to. T 
Pluinbing permits granted, ., 
Sewer permits granted, ., 
Plumbing inspections, .,. 
Water tests made,.,, $ 
Inspection of old and new plumbing. ., $ 
Sewer inspections,,,, 

In conclusion T desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and co operation.

Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY.
Inspector of Plumbing.

REPORT OF THE

Inspection of Meat and Provisions.
Lo the Board of Health

GENTLEMEN The following is my report as Inspector
of Meat. and Provisions for the year ending November ,
 
Total inspections, ‘stores and markets, ., 
Total number of days at Slaughter House, . 
Total cattle slaughtered, .,. ti
Total veal slaughtered, .,. 
Total swine slaughtered, .,, st

The following has been condemned as unfit for human
food 

Beef, pounds.

Veal, pounds.

Pork, pounds.

Poultry, pounds.

Mutton, pounds.

Sausage, pounds,

Tallow, pounds.

Tripe, pounds.

Raisins, pounds.

 Coffee, pounds.

Fish, pounds. 

Butter, & pounds. ,

Prunes, pounds,

Sour kraut, pounds.

Onions, bushel.

Beets, bushel.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Apples, bushels.
Potatoes, bushel.
Cranberries, bushel.
Spinach, bushel.
Peaches, baskets.
Canned Goods, cans. 
Syrup, cans.
Cookies, boxes. 
Cheese, packages.
Preserves, glasses.
Turnips, peck.
Bamanas, dozens.
Corn, dozens.
Oranges, dozens. 
Pineapples, dozens.
Cucumbers, dozen.
Rhubarb, dozen.
Pickles, gallons.
Vinegar, gallons.
Melons, .
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN M. CARLON,
Inspector of Meat and Provisions.

REPORT OF THE

Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum
To the Board of Health

GENTLEMEN I submit my report for the vear ending
November ,
Total number of licenses granted, . . ?
Number granted to peddlers,, 
Number granted to stores and stands , 
Number granted for the sale of oleomargarine, 
Paid into the City Treasurer as fees ived, $ 
Money rived for distilled water, , 
Nunber of quarts of sweet milk sold daily, 
Number of quarts of skimmed milk, ., 
Niuunber of quarts of cream,, tbe
Numbher of samples tested, milk, .J ATI
Number of samples tested, cream, . ol
Number of samples tested, butter, ?

 Number of samples tested, vinegar, . ol

Number of samples tested, kerosene oil, S
Number of warnings sent, milk, 
Number of warnings sent, wooden plugs,. 
Number of warnings sent, botthng nilk on wagon, ay
Number of inspections of places where milk is stored or

kept for sale,, , 
Number of prosecutions, milk below standard parties

fined $ in each ease, ., 
Number of prosecutions party fined $ . . 

Would reeommend that milk sold in stores be sold in betties only, except in rescaurants where it is to be drank on the
premises.

Respectfully,
JAMES K. MORRILL,
Inspector of Milk.

‘
Report of Bacteriologist.
To the Holyoke Board of Health

GENTLEMEN I herewith present my report on the eases
subrnitted to me for laboratory examination during the year
ending November 

 During the year there have been fewer cases of diphtheria than for several years past, there having been but positive eases examined in the laboratory. The real worth of
this department, however, is demonstated by the fact that
there were swabs examined which were found to be negative. This is due to the fact, as stated in previous reports,
that the physicians are daily realizing more and more the
value of microscopic examination in eliminating the diagnosis of diphtheria, as well as in confirming it. In order to
show this let me quote from my two previous reports 
showed positive and negative diagnosis 
positive and negative, while the present year shows 
positive and negative. These figures speak for theimselves.

I would again call the attention of the physicians to the
fact that in eases which are clinically suspicious, single negative examimation should never be accepted as conclusive, beeause it not infrequently happens that seeond swab will
show positive growth where the first was negative. Also
that all cases of membranous eroup must be reported regardless of the laboratory findings.

The placing of box in the High Street entrance of the
City Hall during the past vear has proved to be deeided advantave to the physicians who may now deposit swabs here
at all times up to nine ocloek at night, thus doing away with
the more or less compleated system in vere up to this time.

.
 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TUBERCULOSIS.

The total number of sputum examinations for tuberele
bacilli made during the past year was of which were
positive and negative. This branch of our work is growing
from year to year only it is to be regretted that the physicians
do not take advantage of this opportunity for free examinations to greater extent than they do at present, because we
all know that microscopie examination of the sputum is
often of great value in making our diagnosis. At times, of
course, an undoubtedly positive case may have negative report returned from the laboratory, but every year attention is
called to the fact that this is liable to occur, and that sinvle negative report should never be accepted as final in suspicious eases. On the other hand were specimens handed in as
a routine in every case where there is protracted cough there
would undoubtedly be not few positive reports that would
be unexpected, and in this way proper treatment could be instituted in the early stages where the patient more likely to
derive permanent benefit.

TYPHOID.

Our aty is particularly fortunate imasmuch as we have
so few cases of true typhoid fever. This I belicve to be duc
to the exeellent eonditions governing our water and milk supply and drainage systems. Our water system is acknowledged
to be one of the best in this country, and the dairies and other
sources of our milk supply are inspected regularly, and if
conditions prevailing are not up to the proper standard, it is
insisted upen that the ssary hmprovements be made at
onee. Of course every year finds number of eases reported,
but in many of these we have no opportunity to make an exanination, I would suggest that vour Board request blood
specimen for Widal examination in every case reported as
typhoid. 

During the past year but fifteen Widal examinations
were taade, one of which was positive and fourteen negative.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
OPTHALMIA NEONOTORUM.
I would again suggest that your Board insist that smear a
be handed in for examination in all cases where there is a
purulent eve discharge in the newborn. If you see fit to pass
upon this, I will furnish outfits, and should our work be the oo,
means of saving but one pair of eyes year, we would be
amply compensated for the trouble and expense involved. 
I wish to thank your Board and its attaches for their hearty co operation, and the physicians for the kindness and 
courtesy shown me. ee
Appended you will find detailed report of the work for me
the year. Respectfully submitted, 
J.J. CARROLL, M. D. 

 REPORT OF BUARD OF HEALTH.
DIPHTHERIA.
Diagnosis. Release. Total Total
Pos. Neg. Pos. Neg. Cultures. Cases.
Dmber, 
January, 
February, 
March, 
April, 
May, 
June, " 
July, 
Aucust, 
September, 
October, 
November, Fy 
Totals, Sb 
TUBERCULOSIS.
q aA A FF “ &E Zz &
Positive, 
Nevative, TW 
 
TYPHOID.

. Positive, O O O 
Negative, O 
 
Total examinations, , . 


