REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF HEALTH.
To the Honorable the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen.
GENTLEMEN In compliance with the Public Statutes, the
 Board of Health herewith respectfully submit for your consideration the twenty second annual report. 
The Board met for organization on the first Monday of Feb 
ruary electing the following officers Chairman, Dr. Arthur B.
Wetherell Secretary, Dr. Frank A. Woods Health Officer, 
Mr. Jeremiah J. Linehan.
GENERAL WORK.
In the work of keeping the city in clean and sanitary condition the Board have proded in the same systematic manner
 as during the past few years. The result of this work is making
itself evident in the fact that during the past vear smaller number of dirty cellars and dirty tenements have been brought to our
attention, and it with less trouble that we secure an abatement
of these nuisances and sources of filth. In this work the Board
has been aided by majority of the large property owners of the
city, who have readily acceded to our requests to attend to their
property in this respect.
‘ The usual number of small nuisances and complaints, affecting only the immediate locality in which they exist, have been
abated. There is still room for improvement in the matter of
waste papers found in large quantities on our public streets. This
may be remedied in part by closer attention to the permission given for the distribution of hand bills, and would also be

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
greatly improved if the City should provide rptacles for waste
papers upon the streets, as is done in so many cities.

The removal of old buildings in various parts of the city has
greatly improved the sanitary condition of the localities in which
they existed and has increased the value of surrounding properties.

Twenty six such buildings have been removed during the
year. 

The Board is pleased to state that at present there are less

nuisances of this character in Holyoke than in most places.

The appended report of the Health Officer gives detailed
account of this work. 

BACTERIOLOGY.

The Board have continued the system of bacteriological
examinations in all cases of diphtheria and of throat trouble of a
suspicious nature. Dr. H. C. Emerson of Springfield was again
elected bacteriologist of the Board.

The Board would urge each physician to exercise due care
and promptness in taking swabs for diagnosis and also in tak ing the two consecutive negative swabs for release as caution
against the spread of contagion.

This system has apparently sucded very well during the
period it has been in operation, and the Board feel that it is of
the utmost importance that it be faithfully lived up to.

BAKERIES. ,

Such inspection of bakeries and their surroundings as is prescribed by law have been made. In majority of cases these
important places where so much of our food product is manufactured were found to be in good general condition.

Twenty six bakeries are at present in operation in the city.
The Board still endeavors to use its influence against cellar
bakeries, and would advise legislation against the establishment
of the same. 

&
REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
UNDERTAKERS.

The usual licenses have been granted undertakers to carry
on this business, as required by law. Twelve licenses have been
granted during this year. The undertakers are prompt in filing
the certificates of death, and are careful in making their returns.

SLAUGHTER HOUSES.

All slaughter houses and manufacturers of sausage and prepared meat within the city have been granted licenses by this
Board. Nine licenses have been granted for the manufacture of
sausage and prepared meat, and two for slaughtering.

The supervision of these places of business has caused an
improvement in the character of the articles furnished to the

' public for consumption.
BARBER SHOPS.

As result of the many complaints concerning the sanitary
condition of number of the barber shops in the city, and the presence of more or less skin disease of contagious nature, the Board
have caused an inspection of these places of business and found that
some supervision of them was demanded. Accordingly, rules to
obtain satisfactory sanitary condition of the shops and greater
cleanliness in regard to the work done therein have been passed.
All the proprietors have been notified of this act, and copies of
the rules have been posted in all shops. 

There are at present barber shops in the city, in of
which it was found nssary to have material improvement
made.

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES.

The Board can report an improvement in the quality of the
fruit and vegetables that have been offered for sale in this city
during the past year.

There have been no prosecutions for selling decayed fruit
during the past twelve months.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR AND PETROLEUM.

The duties of this office are still subdivided. The Board will
recommend tbat all the dutiess of this office be placed under the
supervision of the Board of Health, with fixed salary for the
Inspector, and proviso that all fees of the department revert to
the City Treasurer.

BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES.

Eleven applications have been rived for the erection or
use of buildings as barns or livery stables. These have rived
careful consideration. The locations have been inspected and
permits have been granted in all cases.

PLUMBERS. ,

The Board of Plumbing Examiners have examined all applicants referred to them by this Board.

There have been four applications made to the Board for
master plumber’s licenses, one for employing and six for journeyman plumber’s licenses.

Hight of the above applicants were granted licenses, and
three refused.

The report of the Plumbing Examiners is appended. SANITARY INSPECTION.

The Board can report that the work in this division of its
department has been carried on in thorough and satisfactory
manner.

The report of the Inspector of Plumbing shows that there
has been less new work done in the city during the past year
than in the prding twelve months however, the addition of
the unusual large amount of old work condemned and replaced,
together with the required tests, has nssitated large number
of inspections.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

A house to house inspection of plumbing is an urgent nssity, and the Board would again recommend that special appropriation be made and the work commenced early in the year.

Appended is the report of the Inspector of Plumbing.

VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS.

The Board has continued its endeavors to have all of the old
vaults and cesspools removed wherever the sewer privileges
would permit, and can now report that the city is practically
clear of the same in all sections having sewers.

' With comparatively little expense to the City, short sewers
with laterals could be laid, which would allow the Board to
abolish the majority of the remaining vaults.

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

The Walnut Street sewer is still nuisance and source of
filth, and its sewage should not be allowed to pass through the ,
canals. The Board would urge that this nuisance be abated in
the manner already suggested by the City Engineer.

The large amount of sewage discharged directly from the
mills into the canals in its course through the city is objectionable
from sanitary point of view, and public health demands that
some other disposal of this sewage should be made.

The Board would recommend that lateral sewers be laid on
Main Street, north and south from Berkshire Street and that
some provision be made for the east side of North Summer
Street.

The condition of drainage of the houses at Ingleside should
rive serious consideration at once.

VITAL STATISTICS. 
The Board is pleased to report very material reduction in
 the number of deaths and also in the death rate for the past
twelve months. 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

 For the year ending November there has been
reported deaths and still births, death rate of per
cent. per thousand inhabitants, while compared with deaths
and still births, death rate of per cent. per thousand
during shows very satisfactory reduction of deaths
and per cent. per thousand in the death rate. This points
to the fact that the past year has not only been considerably less
fatal than but one of the most healthy in the records of this
Board. 

The appended “Table A” shows the comparative number of 
deaths, still births and death rates for the past ten years, to
 inclusive, the average number of deaths being and the
average death rate per cent.

“Table B” presents the number of deaths and still births

occurring each month during the year, showing that the mortality
has been very even throughout the various months, being the

 greatest in July, when there were deaths, and the smallest
during April, when there were deaths.

, “Table C” shows that of the deaths recorded during the
year, or per cent., were males, and or per
cent., were females and of the still births, were males and
 were females. 

“Table D” gives the deaths by sex and age, showing that of
the total deaths, or per cent., were under year
of age, or per cent., were under years of age, and
or per cent., had been over years of age.

During the prding year per cent. were under 
year of age, per cent. were under years of age, and 
per cent. over years of age, showing, by comparison, the deaths

under one to be relatively the same, while there is slight
decrease in the per cent. under five years of age and slight
increase in those over years of age during the present year.

“Table KE” presents the exact cause of each death occurring
in the city during the year. It shows deaths from contagious
diseases, as compared with during the prding year 

deaths from Tuberculosis, as compared with during In

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
the nervous diseases there is decrease in Meningitis and Cerebral Inflammation, and an increase in apoplectic diseases noted.
We find an increase proportionately in the acute diseases of the
Kidneys, while in the deaths from disease of the Digestive and
Circulatory systems, there is little or no change. In the Respiratory tract we find marked decrease in deaths from Pneumonia
and Bronchitis.

“Table F,” giving the number of deaths in the various institutions in the city and in each ward, with the death rate per
thousand population in each, will be of interest as showing the
portion of the city in which the largest and smallest amount of
sickness has existed. We find again, as during the prding
year, that in Wards Two and Four, where are our most crowded
tenement districts, the number of deaths and the death rate are
the highest, while Ward Five has had the smallest number of
deaths.

Twenty and sixty two one bundredths per cent. of the total
deaths occurred in the institutions. .

In “Table G” will be seen the nativity of those dying in the
city during Of the deaths, or per cent.,
were born in Holyoke or per cent., in the United
States or per cent., in Ireland or per
cent., in Canada or per cent., in Germany or 
per cent., in Scotland or per cent., in England, and the
remainder in various other foreign countries. 

“Table H ” shows the place of interment of all bodies buried
in the city and the number of bodies sent away for burial. It 
also shows that during the year bodies were brought to Holyoke for burial, and that there have been local burials. Nine
hundred and fourteen burial permits have been issued from the
office during the year. 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
, TaBLE A.
Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births and
death rates for the past ten years. 
 Deaths. Still Births. Total. Death Rate.

Average death rate for ten years, ,
TaBLe B. 
Showing deaths and still births during .
 Deaths. Still Births. Total. ,
Dmber, . . og 
January, . ., 
February,. 
March, . . T 
April, 
May, ., 
June, . . .a 
July, , D 
 August, .soe 
September, 
October,. ., 
November, 
Total, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

TaBLe C.

Showing sex of deaths and still births during .

Male. Female. Male. Female. Total.
Dmber, . 
January, . 
February, D “ 
March, . 
April, . D 
May, . D 
June, . 
July, . 
August, . 
September,. 
October, 
November, . 
Total, 

TaBLE D.

' Showing deaths by sex and age. .

Male. Female. Total.
Under one year, 
From one to two, 
 two to three, 
“ three to four, . 
“ four to five, ,
“ five to ten, . 
“ ten to fifteen, . D
“ fifteen to twenty, 
“ twenty to thirty, 
“ thirty to forty, 
“ forty to fifty,. 
“ fifty to sixty, 
“ sixty toseventy, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

Male. Female. Total.
From seventy to eighty, 
Over eighty, . 
Unknown, . . oe .

Total, ., 

‘TaBLe EK.

Showing cause of each death occurring during the year .
Measles, Tuber. of peritoneum, 
Diphtheria, . se “ hip joint, 
Memb. croup,. “ not stated, 
Scarlet fever, .' Cancer of tongue, 
Typhoid fever, . “ messentary, I
Cerebro sp. fever, “ “ breast, 
Septicemia,, gtomach, 
Rheumatism, . “ “ liver, . 

. Anaemia, . “ “ intestines, 
Phthisis Pulmonalis, “c “ uterus, . 
Tuber. of messentary, ‘ not stated, 
 “ “ meninges, Fibro Sarcoma,, 
“ “ larynx, Sarcoma, not stated, 
$ “ intestines, Rodent ulcer of face, 
Total, , . 

NERVOUS DISEASES.
Encephalitis, . Paralysis agitans, . 
Cerebral congestion, Neurasthenia, . 

“ softening, Insanity, ., 

“ tumor, . Alcoholism, . 
Meningitis, Infantile convulsions, 

Apoplexia, Post diphtheretic paralysis, 
Selerosis of spine, . Paresis, . . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Hydrocephalus, Paralysis not stated, 
Epilepsy, ., Trismus,, 
Multiple neuritis, . 
Total, . . . . d
URINARY DISEASES.
Nephritis,. Uremia,, 
Bright’s disease, Polypoid of bladder, 
Diabetes mellites, . 
Total, . . . . 
. DIGESTIVE DISEASES.
Gastritis, Acute indigestion, . 
Gastro enteritis, Cyst of spleen,, 
Enteritis, General ansarca,, 
Entero colitis, Dysentery,, 
Tleo colitis, . Cholera infantum, . ol
Appendicitis,, Cholera morbus,, 
Peritonitis, . Strangulated hernia, 
Obstruction of intestines, Hepatitis,, 
Intussusception of Intestines, Atrophy of liver, 
Ulceration of Intestines, Cirrhosis of liver, 
Ulceration of Stomach, Malignant Jaundice, 
Inanition, . Icterus Neonatorum, 
Maloutrition,, Over feeding,, 
Marasmus, 
Total, . . . 
 CIRCULATORY DISEASES.

 Endocarditis, . Faulty infantile circulation, 
Angina Pectoris, Phlebitis, 
Arterial sclerosis, Arterial artheroma, 
Fatty degen. of heart, Leucaemia, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Valvular dis. of heart Aortic stenosis, ., 
Hypertrophy of heart, Myo carditis, . 
Dilation of heart, Purpura haemorrhagica, 
Heart disease, not stated, Cardiac embolism, . 
Total, . . . . 

 “RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Asthma, . Pneumonia, 
Spasmodic croup, . Amygdalitis, i. 
Bronchitis, Pleurisy,ee 
Congestion of lungs, Oedema of larynx, 
Abscess of lungs, Empyema, i
Oedema of lungs, . Influenza, 
Total, . . . 
GENERATIVE DISEASES.
Puerperal Eclampsia, Parturition, . 
Total, . . . Lo, 
VIOLENT CAUSES.

Suicide by Carbolic Acid, Fracture of skull, . 
Suicide by illuminating gas, Burns orscalds, 
Suicide by shooting, Cut in two by band saw, 
Suicide by drowning, Pelvic abscess, . 
Accidental drowning, Traumatism by forceps, i
Struck by train, . Choked in vomiting, 
Struck by electric car, 
Total, . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
. UNCLASSIFIED.
Asthenia senile, . Gangrene of leg, . 
Asthenia infantile, Exoph.Goitre, . 
Premature birth, . Unknown, ., 
Congenital, . 
Total, , 
TaBLe F.
Showing the death and death rate, per inhabitants, in
each ward in the city, and in the various institutions. 
 Deaths. Death Rate.
Ward One, . oo, . 
“ Two, . ar 
“ Three, . ol 
“ Four, .,. 
“ Five, . 
“ Six,. ., 
“ Seven, . . 
Total, . 
Almshouse, oo, House of Prov. Hospital, 
Brightside, ., Harkins Home,. 
City Hospital, Mt. St. Vincent, C
Total deaths in institutions, 
 per cent of total deaths. .
Non residents, . ., . 
 TABLE G.
. Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during the .
year .
Holyoke, . France, ‘ 
Massachusetts otherwise, New Brunsw.ck, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Other States, . Russia, . 
Total in United States, Denmark, . I
Ireland, . Italy, ., i
Germany, Cuba, 
Canada, . Sweden, 
England, Prussia, . 
Scotland, . Australia,, 
Austria, wo Turkey, Lo 
Poland, . Unknown, . a
Total, . . . . 
 TasLe H.

Showing the place of interment of those dying in the city
and those brought here for burial during Still births 
included.

Calvary, . Elmwood, . 
Forestdale, . St. Jerome, . 
West Holyoke, Brightside, . 
South Hadley Falls, Out of town ‘otherwise 
Total,. .,. 

 Local burials, . .,, 
Brought to Holyoke for burial, 
Sent from Holyoke for burial, to. 
Total burial permits issued, to,. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.

During the year ending November Holyoke has
again been visited by what promised to be the largest epidemic
of small pox in the history of the city. Starting as it did in one
of the most crowded tenement districts, and in addition having
been hidden from the authorities for sufficient time to allow its
development, it seems impossible that it could be controled with
less than several hundred cases and the exposure of large number of people.

Energetic work by the members of the Board and its officials, aided by the willingness with which the people in general
submitted to the work of general vaccination, served to control
the outbreak to thirty nine cases, nearly all being confined to the
two localities in which it was first discovered.

In all of the other contagious diseases, with the exception of
typhoid fever, there has been material decrease from The number of cases are as follows oS

Scarlet Typhoid Small Memb.
Diphtheria. Measles. Fever. fever. Pox. Croup. Total.
. 
. 
, DIPHTHERIA.

There has been reported during the year one hundred and
thirty one cases of diphtheria in comparison to two hundred and seventy two reported during reduction of

over per cent in the number of cases. There have been 
deaths from this disease, death rate of per cent. The
larger number of these cases have been in wards two and three,
especially the former. It has existed in all of the wards, Ward
Four however having but one case.

The disease has made its appearance to some extent every
month throughout the year, being most prevalent in Dmber,
January and June.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
MEASLES.
The number of cases of measles has decreased over twothirds of those reported during there having been only 
. cases, as compared with cases last year. There have been
four deaths from this disease during the year, death rate of 
per cent. The disease has existed throughout the year, and, with
the exception of Ward Two, bas been in every ward, Wards
Three and Four, however, having most of the cases. 
SCARLET FEVER.

There have been cases of scarlet fever during the year,
as compared with cases reported during Three of these
cases have proven fatal, death rate of per cent. This disease
has also been present throughout the year, and has been located
in all parts of the city, Ward Two suffering the most from it.

TYPHOID FEVER.

Typhoid fever has been little more prevalent than during
the previous year. There have been reported cases with 
deaths, death rate of per cent., or about one death from
this disease to every inhabitants. This disease has also
been general, not limited to any locality of the city, and existed
chiefly during the first three months of the year.

 SMALL POX.

Small pox appeared in our city on January at 
Spring Street. The case was quickly removed to the Pest House,
a quarantine established at the block, and all of the residents vaccinated. No new cases appeared from this source.

On February mild case was discovered at Potvin
Avenue, where the same system was established.

On February case was reported at Lyman Street, and

‘upon investigation it was found that the patient had just moved
to that number from Lyman Street, at which place were
found eight cases in various stages of the disease. During the

, REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
next few days six more persons came down with the disease at
this place, and at various times from then until April th cases
appeared at various places in the neighborhood, all being traced
to this source of infection. 

In all cases of this dreaded disease were reported to
the Board. While general vaccination was not ordered it was
requested that all corporations have their employees vaccinated
and all schools were inspected and unvaccinated children vaccinated. In addition to this strict quarantine was observed in all
blocks where this disease had occurred. The large majority of
the cases were of mild character and it is with pleasure that we
report that there were no fatalities during the epidemic.

The total expense of this epidemic was $. This 
expense including not only all of the bills for the cases of small
pox themselves but also those of the quarantine, including food
and fuel for all those who were quarantined by order of the
Board, which number varied from sixty to over seven hundred at

 different times. It also includes all bills for policing the quarantined districts, all physicians’ bills for care of cases and also for
services in vaccinating school children, all of the expenses of the
pest house and also bills for clothing, etc., for patients on their
release from the quarantine.

This presents cost per capita, for the cases, of $ ,
which is considered by the authorities as below the average’.
expense per case.

CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL. 
The Board would once again call attention to the imperative
need of hospital for the care of diseases of contagious nature,
especially diphtheria and scarlet fever. The value of such institutions is being realized more and more each year and many of
the cities of the state now have such accommodations which
greatly aid in the control of epidemics of such diseases. With
our large tenement districts, it is evident that we should have 
such building at our command in this city.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
 PEST HOUSE.

 The pest house at present in use by the city is well suited
in most ways and furnishes very satisfactory as well as secluded
place of confinement for persons suffering with small pox. Improvements should however be made in the building in the sanitary arrangements. A sanitary system should be arranged to
remove the sewage from the building and satisfactory rptacle
made for the same. A small addition should also be added, to
include disinfecting room for those who are obliged to visit the
building, and also bath room for the use of the patients.

These are indispensable nssities and should rive immediate attention.
Tas Le L.

Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months. 
Scarlet Typhoid Small Memb.
Diphtheria. Measles. Fever. Fever. Pox. Croup. Total.
Dmber, 
January, ve 
February, 
March, ,
April, ve 
May, 
June, we 
July, 
August, I Le a 
September, 
October, te Le 
November, Hy te 
Total, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
 TasLe M.

. Showing the contagious diseases by wards, as reported during the past year.
 Wards Total.

 
Diphtheria, DD § 
Scarlet Fever, 
, Measles, iil D 
Memb. Croup, . se 
Small Pox, a 
Typhoid Fever, 
Total, Sl 
TaBLe N.
Showing number of deaths from contagious diseases during .

Diphtheria. Yover. ‘Meusles. “pever, Pos. Croup. Total
Dmber, 
 January, we 
February, 
March, we 
April, we . a
May, oe oe 
June, oe a 
July, . 
August, 
September, . 
October, . 
November, we we 
Total, ae 

,
 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the Board for the
year ending November .
Appropriation, . $. 
Transfer from contingent, . 
Ripts, . . . 
Total, . . . $. 
 EXPENDITURES.
Regular monthly bills, ., $. 
Regular pay roll, 
Milk department bills, os . 
Bills for Small Pox, . . 
Pay roll for Small Pox, 
Balance unexpended, . 
Total, . toe. $. 
Respectfully submitted, 
A. B. WETHERELL, M. D., Chairman,
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D., Secretary,
J.J. LINEHAN, Health Officer,
Board of Health.

REPORT OF THE
HEALTH OFFICER.
To the Board of Health. 
GENTLEMEN I hereby submit report’ of your Health
Officer for the past year. During the year much time has been
 devoted to the disinfection of bouses where cases of contagious
disease have occurred. This work was increased owing to the 
 large number of Small Pox cases in the early part of the year.
In this line of work twelve hundred and eight rooms have been
disinfected with Formaldehyde gas, and large amount of
bedding has been destroyed.

I am happy to report smaller number of minor nuisances,
such as dirty cellars and tenements, in which work I was greatly
aided by the large property owners, also general improvement
in all the fruit products sold by peddlers and in stores in this city.

I wish to congratulate the Board on the large number of
old buildings removed during the year, the number being
twenty six.

Other duties performed by your officer are sufficiently set
forth in the accompanying tables. Several verbal and minor
complaints have beén attended to which were not of sufficient
importance to be entered upon the records.

NOTICES SERVED AND PRODUCTS DESTROYED.
Grapes destroyed baskets, ,. 
Dead animals removed, 
Decayed melons destroyed, .,, 
Decayed bananas destroyed bunches, ., 
Decayed berries destroyed quarts, ., 

/ 
 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Decayed meat destroyed pounds, . . 
Swill cans ordered, . ., 
Dirty yards ordered cleaned, ., 
Dirty cellars ordered cleaned, . 
Ash chutes ordered cleaned, ., 
Stables ordered cleaned, . 
Dirty markets ordered cleaned, 
Dirty fish carts ordered cleaned, ., 
Dirty tenements ordered cleaned, 
Vacant houses ordered cleaned, . . 
 Workshops ordered cleaned, . 
Manure piles ordered removed,, 
Rooms fumigated, . . . . 
Contagious disease cards posted, . 
Dirty mattresses destroyed, ., . 
Meat, decayed, in alley, ordered removed, ., 
Hens in cellar ordered removed, . . 
Pigeons in cellar and buildings ordered removed, . 
Water in cellar ordered removed, . . 
Pigs in cellar ordered removed,, . 
Throwing dirty water in street ordered stopped, 
Barns closed, ot. 
Premises ordered vacated, . 
Buildings closed and condemned, . . 
Buildings removed, .wo. . 
Rags in tenements ordered removed, . 
Rags in cellars ordered removed, ., 
Dirty chicken coops ordered cleaned,, 
Garbage in cellars ordered removed, ., 
Manure water in street ordered removed,. 
Dirty milk carts ordered cleaned, .,, 
Night soil in street ordered removed,. 
Legal notices served, , 
Fish refuse ordered removed, . ok 
Filthy stores ordered cleaned, ., 
Cellars damp, ordered repaired, .,, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
 House offal on land ordered removed, . 
Offensive odors in buildings, . ., 
Untidy premises, ., . . 
Rubbish in cellars ordered removed, . . 
Houses and yards inspected, . 
Swill nuisances, . . 
Houses without water ordered supplied, 
Stagnant water nuisance, . fe 
Selling condemned ice, .,. 
Minor nuisances abated, . . . 
The condition of tenement property still continues to improve and will now compare favorably with that of any city of this

size. ‘
In conclusion I wish to return thanks to his Honor the
' Mayor, my assistant Mr. John S. O’Neill, Marshal Wright and
the Police Department, to the members of the Board, and all
other city officials for their courtesy and co operation, which has

been of great assistance to me in my work.
Respectfully submitted,
J. J. LINEHAN,
Health Officer.

REPORT OF THE
Inspector of Plumbing.
Lo the Board of Health.

GuNTLEMEN As Inspector of Plumbing I have the honor
of submitting the ninth annual report for the fiscal year ending
November .

The following table will show to some extent the nature of
the work.

Water closets put in new buildings, ., 
Sinks ew “ , 
Baths ew oo, 
Bowls ., 
Wash trays “ “ & ,. 
Urinals, nL “,, 
Traps cw 
Water closets put in old buildings, 
Sinks eae “ .,. 
Baths co “, 
Bowls he “, d
Wash trays “ “ & . . 
Urinals“ec., 
Traps co sc . . 
Number of permits granted,, 
Water tests made, . 
Inspection of houses for defective plumbing, 
Inspections made of old and new plumbing, 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances,”. 

Each case has complied with the requirements of the Board.
In addition to the inspection of old and new plumbing, great
many examinations and peppermint tests have been made at the

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
f
request of owners, agents and tenants and in most cases defective
plumbing has been repaired on verbal notification from the inspector without any action by the Board, and of which no records
have been made. 
 Your Inspector would call your attention to the fact that 

while there has been comparatively small amount of new work
for the prding year, large number of houses with defective
plumbing have been condemned and repaired to conform to the
ordinance. This has nssitated large number of inspections.

A house to house inspection is an urgent nssity and the
work should be commenced immediately. ,

In conclusion I desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and co operation.

Respectfully submitted,
 F, L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF
e e
 Plumbing Examiners.
To the Board of Health. ’
 GenTLEMEN The report of the Board of Plumbing Examiners for the fiscal year ending November is hereby
respectfully submitted.
Number of applications for Master Plumbers’ examinations, okLook 
Number of applications for Employing Plumbers’ examinations, . . . . 
Number of applications for Journeyman Plumbers’ examinations, a, . . ok 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of
 Health as qualified to rive Master Plumbers’
license, . . 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of
Health as not qualified to rive Master
Plumbers’ license, . . . .
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of
Health as qualified to rive an Employing
Plumbers’ license, . . . 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of
Health as qualified to rive Journeyman
Plumbers’ license, . . . 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of
Health as not qualified to rive Journeyman
Plumbers’ license, . . . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Owing to the numerous failures of applicants appearing at
specified time to take the examinations, the Board requires a
deposit of two dollars $ at the time the application is filed.

 Said two dollars $ is returned to the applicant if the ex 
amination is taken, and forfeited to the examining officer if the
applicant fails to appear.

On January the Inspector of Plumbing was elected 
secretary of the Board. ,
Respectfully submitted,

A. B. WETHERELL, M. D.

JAMES L. TIGHE, City Engineer.

MARTIN BOWE, Practical Plumber.
Attest. F. L. AVERY, Secretary. 

f

REPORT OF THE
BACTERIOLOGIST.
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN I have the honor to submit the following report for the year ending Dmber .

No change has been made in the manner of conducting the
work of the bacteriologist for the past year, messenger from the

laboratory going to Holyoke for the swabs in the afternoon and the
reports being made by telephone about o’clock in the morning.
Ina number of instances it has been possible to make an absolute
diagnosis of case as soon as the swab reached the laboratory, and
in such cases the physician has been notified at once of the presence of diphtheria germs in the case from which the swab was
taken.

Diphtheria has not been prevalent during the past year, but
there have been referred to me for examination cases, a
marked diminution in number from the number rived during
 and of these cases were examined at the onset of
the illness, and diphtheria germs were found in cases,
while in the remaining cases no diphtheria organisms were
found cases were examined at the time of release only and
in eleven of these no diphtheria germs were found at any time.

By reference to the table below, it will be noted that in five
months out of the twelve, and in months where there was but
little diphtheria in the city, the number of cases that showed no
diphtheria germs exded the number in which diphtheria was
found. This fact is significant, showing as it does the care that

"the physicians take in determining the character of sore throats, 
using this method of diagnosis at time when diphtheria was
not prevalent in the city. The belief is becoming more and more
pronounced that much of our diphtheria is spread by mild and

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
unrecognized cases of the disease, and it is an encouraging fact
to Health officials that the physicians generally recognize this, 
and are careful to determine by the culture method the character
of the infection of all doubtful cases of “sore throat.”

Below will be found tables giving summaries of the cultures
examined during the year.
Cases Examinep .

\ Positive. pa B erative. Positive. Re epative. Total.
Dmber, 
January, 
February, 
March, D oe 
April, 
May, Lo 
June, 
July, T
August, oe 
September, . v
October, we we 
November, oe 

Total, 

Total cases submitted for examination, . 
Total cultures examined from above cases, Positive, 
Total cultures examined from above cases, Negative, 

Total cultures, . . . 

All of which is respectfully submitted,
 HERBERT C. EMERSON, M. D.
Bacteriologist.


