REPORT
OF THE
OF THE 
CITY OF HOLYOKE,
FOR THE ,
YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER .
LEAD.
i

Digitized by Google

REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF HEALTH.
To the Honorable the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN In compliance with the Public Statutes, the
Board of Health herewith respectfully submit for your consideration the twenty first annual report.

The Board met for organization on the first Monday in February, electing the following officers Chairman, Ir. Arthur B.
Wetherell Secretary, Dr. Frank A. Woods Health Officer, Mr.
Jeremiah J. Linehan Clerk, Mr. Joseph A. Murray.

 GENERAL WORK.

 The general work of keeping the city clean requires much
more time, care and attention by the members of the Board than
is evident to any one who does not take especial interest in the
work and thus look into the subject. Much of this work lies in
abating small nuisances which affect only the localities in which
they exist.

Dirty cellars, tenements and other buildings and stores come 
under this head, and upon this work, many times, depends the
health of the locality. This tenement work not only tends to
directly decrease the mortality, but is great aid in the prevention of epidemics.

We would request that each property owner see that his tenements and their surroundings are kept in clean and sanitary

,

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.

condition. This would greatly aid the Board in this very important work of keeping the city clean. ‘The appended report

of the Health Officer gives detailed report of this work.
BACTERIOLOGY.

During the past year the Board have continued the system
of bacteriological examinations in all cases of diphtheria or of
throat trouble of suspicious nature. Dr. H. C. Emerson of ,
Springtield was again elected bacteriologist of the Board.

The Board would urge each physician to exercise due care
and promptness in taking swabs for diagnosis, and also in taking
the two consecutive negative swabs for release before the quarantine can be raised, as caution against the spread of contagion.

BAKERIES.

Such yearly inspections of bakeries and their surroundings as
is prescribed by law have been made. ‘Taken as whole, these
important places, wher® so much of our food product is manufactured, were found to be in good general condition. ‘wentysix bakeries are at present in operation in the city. ‘The Board
endeavors to use its influence against the establishment of cellar
bakeries, and such advice is being favorably taken in all new
establishments.

 UNDERTAKERS.

The usual licenses have been granted undertakers to carry
on the business as required by law. ‘I'welve licenses were
granted to engage in the business. ‘he undertakers are endeavoring to be prompt in filing certificates of death, and are careful in making their returns. .

Special returns th regard to persons dying of diseases of a
contagious nature have been promptly returned in most cases.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
SLAUGHTER HOUSES.

All slaughter houses and manufactories of sausage and prepared meat within the city have now been granted licenses by
this Board. Nine licenses have been granted for the manufacture of sausage and prepared meat, and two for slaughtering.

The supervision of these places of business of those thus 
engaged, thus entailed, has caused an improvement in the
character of the articles furnished to the public for consumption.

The Inspector of Meat and Provisions has worked in full
co operation with the Board, and as result there is less diseased 
meat exposed for sale. Under the new statute all animals must
be inspected before they are killed and the meat must be subsequently stamped by the inspector. ‘There have been four prosecutions during the past year for selling diseased meat conviction being secured in all cases. 

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES. ,
 The Board continue to wage war on poor fruit and vegetables
furnished to the public. ‘here have been seven prosecutions of
peddlers for selling decayed fruit or vegetables that in all cases
have been brought in from outside of the city all of whom
were convicted.

The appended report of the Health Officer gives detail of
this work and of the fruit condemned during the year. .

, INSPECTION OF SECOND HAND DEALERS AND
JUNK DEALERS.

We would again recommend that smaller number of
licenses be granted to dealers in these lines of business. An
inspection of the proposed places of business should be made
in all cases, and the applications referred to this Board before a
license is granted. ,

t O REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.

In no case should milk or any food product be allowed to be
sold on the premises where such business is conducted.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR AND PETROLEUM.

As was recommended last year, the Inspector of Milk was
placed under this Board, but only to the extent of the inspection
of milk. ‘This act sub divides his duties. The Board would
recommend that an ordinance be passed placing the Inspector
of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum under this Board, that suitable salary be fixed for him, and that all fees from his department revert to the city treasury. It would also recommend
that it provide for an assistant or collector, as provided by
law, and that it provide for salary for him of $ day for
each day employed.

 BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES.

All applications for the erection or use of buildings as barns
or livery stables have rived careful consideration and the
 sites of locations have been inspected before granting licenses.

License for the construction and use of such have been granted
with but few exceptions. People are becoming more familiar
with this law, and there is less tendency for the evasion of the
same noted.

PLUMBERS.

‘The Board of Plumbing Examiners have examined all candidates referred to them by this Board for examination. There
have been three applications made to the Board for journeymen
plumbers’ licenses, and two for master plumbers’ licenses during
the past twelve months, all of which have been granted. The
report of the Board of Plumbing Examiners is appended.

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. Y
SANITARY INSPECTION.

The Board can report that the work in this division of its
department has been carried on in athorough manner. Mr.
Frank L. Avery was appointed Plumbing Inspector on June
 of this year.

The report of the Plumbing Inspector shows that there has
been more new work done in the city during the past year than
in the prding twelve months, which, with the addition of the
large amount of old work replaced and the required tests, have
nssitated large number of inspections. A house to house
inspection of plumbing is an urgent nssity, and the Board
would again recommend that special appropriation be made,
and the work commenced early in the year.

Appended is the report of the Inspector of Plumbing.

 VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS.

The Board has continued its endeavors to have all of the old
vaults and cesspools removed wherever the sewer privileges
would permit, the few remaining vaults being due to lack of
these.

The Board would recommend that lateral sewers be laid on
Main street, north and south from Berkshire street on Dwight
street, north from Nonotuck street that some provision be
made for the east side of North Summer street, and for the south
end of Laurel street and Gates street.

The condition of drainage of the houses at Ingleside should 
also rive serious consideration at once. 

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

The Board is unanimous in the opinion that no sewage
should be allowed to enter the river above the dam, and any
such plan will be strenuously opposed. The Walnut street sewer

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
is also the cause of much complaint, property owners claiming
that it is not only nuisance but an injury to their property.
This Board considers it source of filth and danger to the
 public health, and would request that the sewer be changed
according to the plans already prepared by the City Engineer.
 The Board desires to recommend that al catch basins be frequently cleaned and flushed, especially during the hot weather.
The Board would also recommend that an ordinance be passed
requiring that inspection of all sewers, from the building line to
houses, be made by the Inspector of Plumbing, and that all such
sewers and drains be laid only by licensed drain layers or
licensed plumbers. VITAL STATISTICS.

In this branch gf the work the Board is constantly endeavoring to bring the standard of its office up to that of the
Boards of Statistics in the larger cities. This year in addition
to gradual extension of the system we have purchased “card
index system ” upon which all of the statistics of the department will be placed and which when completed will place them
in practical form for ready use. ,

The following statistics for the year ending November oth,
Show total death in the city during the year of a
death rate of per cent per thousand population, and 
still births. his compares very favorably with the prding
year when there were deaths, death rate of per cent
per thousand and still births, which shows reduction of 

 deaths and per cent per thousand in the death rate, over
 .

The appended “Table A” shows the comparative number of
deaths, still births and death rates for the ten years to
 got inclusive also the average death rate for the ten years.

‘Table B” presents the deaths and still births by months,

 showing that the mortality has run very even through out the
year with the exception of the month of July when the extreme

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
heat had its effect upon the infants of the city over per
cent of the deaths of this month being of children under one
year of age. 

“Table C” shows that of the deaths reported during the
year, were males and females, and of the still births
 were males and were females.

“Table D” gives the deaths by sex and age, showing that of
the total deaths, or per cent were under one year
of age or per cent had been under five years of age,
and or per cent had been over fifty years of age, and
also showing the males and females dying at each age.

“Table E”’ presents the exact cause of each death occurring
in the city during the past year. It shows decrease in deaths
caused from diseases of contagious nature, and also slight
decrease in those dying from diseases of the digestive system.

In diseases of the respiratory tract there is little or no proportionate change, while there had been an increase in deaths
from violent causes. ,

“Table F”’ is new table this year, showing the number of

 deaths in the institutions, and in the various wards, with the
per cent per thousand inhabitants in each ward. ‘This is very
valuable table, as it aids in determining the amount of sickness .
in each ward, indicating the health conditions that there exist.
As will readily be seen, the death rate runs higher in the tenement districts, such as exist in Wards One, Two and Four,
while it decreases in the districts where the population is not so
crowded.

Seventeen and sixty nine one hundredths per cent of the
total deaths of the city occur in the institutions.

In “Table G” will be seen the nativity of those dying in the
city during the past year. Of the deaths, or 
per cent, were born in Holyoke or per cent, in the
United States or per cent, were born in Ireland Or per cent, in Canada or per cent, in Germany or per cent, in England or per cent, in
Scotland, and the remainder in various other foreign countries.

There have been bodies brought to Holyoke for burial

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
during the past year, and sent from the city for burial 
there have been local burials. Nine hundred and ninety
burial permits have been issued from this office during the year.
 TABLE A.

Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births and
death rates for the past ten years. 
Deaths. Still Births. Total. Death Rate.

Average death rate for ten years, 

 TABLE B.
Showing deaths and still births during rgor.
Deaths. Still Births. Total.

Dmber, .,, 
January, , 
February, . to. 
March, oo, 
April, 
May, ,. 
fune, . . 
july,. 
August, . . 
September, . . 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Deaths. Still Births. Total.

October, . . 

November, . . 

Total, 

 'Tasie C 
Showing sex of deaths and still births during rgor.
Deaths. Still Births.

Male. Female. Male. Female. Total.

Dmber, . I I 

January, . . 

February, . I 

March, 

April,., 

May, ., 

June,. I 

July,,, I 

August, ., 

September, . 
October, . ‘I I 

November, . 

Total, 

TABLE D.
Showing deaths by sex and age 

Male. Female. Total.

Under one year, . I 

From one to two, 

““ two to three, . 

“three to four, . 

“four to five, 

“ five to ten, toe 

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
 Male. Female. Total.
From ten to fifteen, . 
 “ fifteen to twenty, ., 
 “ twenty to thirty, . 
‘ thirty to forty, . 
“ forty to fifty,. 
“fifty to sixty, . 
, “ sixty to seventy, . 
‘ seventy to eighty, 
Over eighty,., 
Unknown, . . 
Total, 
TABLE E. ,
Showing the cause of each death occurring during the year
Igol. 
 GENERAL DISEASES. 
Measles, ‘Tubercular ostitis,I
Whooping cough, Tuberculosis, N.S., 
Diphtheria, ., Cancer of face, . I
Memb. croup, . “ jaw, . I
Scarlet fever, “e parotid, I
‘Typhoid fever, . “e breast, 
Malarial fever, I ‘ stomach, 
Septimia, “ liver, 
Pyzmia, . os intestines, 
Erysipelas, rectum, 
 Syphilis,, “ uterus, 
Rheumatism,. ‘“ N. S.,I
Anemia, . Epithelioma of lip, I
Phthisis Pulmon., . Sarcoma, N.S., . I
Tuber. of messentary, Lupus, we I
Tuber. of meninges, 
Tuber. of larynx, I Total, 
N.S. Not stated.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 

 NERVOUS DISEASES.
Cerebral congestion, Paraplegia, ., 
Meningitis, Lo Nervous prostration, I
Apoplexia, Insanity, ., 
Paralysis, . Dementia, . 
Sclerosis of spine, . Alcoholism, 
Hydrocephalus, . Delirium tremens. 
Tetanus, Infantile convulsions, 
Epilepsy,, Caries of spine, .I
Myelitis, . Spina bifida,. I ,
Hemiplegia, 

Total, ., 

, URINARY DISEASES.
Bright’s disease, . Nephritis, 
Diabetes mellitus, . Cystitis,. 
Uremia,, 

Total,, . .,. 

DIGESTIVE DISEASES.

Gastritis,, Dysentery, 
Gastro Enteritis, .Cholera infantum, 
Enteritis, ., Umbilical hernia,I 
Entero Colitis, Strangulated hernia, 
Ileo Colitis, . Ischio Kectal fistule I
Appendicitis, . Hepatitis, . 
Peritonitis, Jaundice, .I
Obstruction of intestines, Icterus neonatorum, 
Inanition, . Inflammation of gall bladder, 
Mal Nutrition, Gall stones, . 
Marasmus, Cirrhosis of liver, 
Acute indigestion, Amyloid deg. of liver, I

Total, 

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Spasmodic croup, Pleurisy, 
 Bronchitis, . Edema of glottis, I
Congestion of lungs, Laryngitis, ., I
Edema of “ Emphysema,, I 
Abscess of “ Influenza, . Ke
Pneumonia, . Bronchial Adenitis, I
Total, , . 
CIRCULATORY DISEASES. s
Pericarditis, . Paralysis of heart,I
Endocarditis,, Fatty degen. of heart, 
Angina pectoris, Valvular dis. of heart,. 
Embolism, ., Hypertrophy of heart,. I
Arterial sclerosis, . Dilation of heart, 
Heart disease, N.S., 
‘Total,,, ,, 
 GENERATIVE DISEASES.
Puerperal fever, . Pelvic abscess, .I
Parturition, . Rupture of uterus, 
Salpingitis, ., .
Total, . . . . 
VIOLENT CAUSES.
Suicide by hanging, Fracture of skull, 
 shooting, I “ Spine, 
 cutting throat, Concussion of brain, 
“s & poison, Heat prostration, 
Homicide, Burnorscald,. 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Strangulation by machinery, Fall, Coo 
Railroad injury, . Crushed by sand bank, I
Accidental drowning, External violence,I

Total, ., 

UNCLASSIFIED. 

Old age,. Premature Births, g

Asthenia senile, Asthenia infantile, 

Congenital, . Senile gangrene, . I

Chronic Ulcer, . Unknown, ., I

Total, ., 

Total,., .,. 

TABLE F. ,
Showing the death and death rate, per. ,o inhabitants, in
each ward in the city, and in the various institutions.

 Deaths. Death Rate.

Ward One,., .IIS 

“Two, ol . . 

 “ Three, ., 

“ Four,. . 

“Five, . 

“Six, ., . 

Seven,, ., 

 

Almshouse, ., House of Prov. Hospital, 

Brightside, . Harkins Home, 

City Hospital, te Mt. St. Vincent, 
Total deaths in institutions, ., 

 per cent of total death.

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE G. ,
Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during the
year Igol. 
“Holyoke, Austria,, 
Massachusetts otherwise, Poland,. .
Other States, . France, . 
. New Brunswick, . I
Total in United States, Nova Scotia, . 
Ireland, Russia,. 
Germany, . Denmark, ., I
. Canada, Unknown, 
England, 
Scotland, Total, . 
 TaBe H.

Showing the place of interment of those dying in the city
and those brought here for burial during rgor. Still births
included. 

CEMETERIES.

Calvary, Elmwood, ., 
Forestdale, St. Jerome, . 
West Holyoke, Brightside, I
So. Hadley Falls, . Out oftown otherwise 

Total,,,, ggo
Local burials, . Lo, ., 
Brought to Holyoke for burial, .,, 
Sent from Holyoke for burial,. , 

Total burial permits issued, ggo

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
, CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.

The year ending November rgorwhile showing decrease of nearly per cent in the total number of diseases of
a contagious nature, has been marked by steady run of these
diseases throughout the year, which, however, has at no time
assumed the proportions of an epidemic in any line. ‘The majority of the cases of contagious nature have been of mild
character, and hence it is our pleasure not only to report decrease in the number of each disease, but also decrease in the
death rate from each of these causes.

In smallpox alone we have to report an increase over the

 previous year last year we escaped without case of this disease, but this year we have to report two cases, both of light
type, there being no fatalities. Both cases were discovered
early in the disease, before the exposure of many had been possible quarantine was quickly established, one being quarantined
at his home, and the other sent to the pest house vaccination
of all possibly exposed persons was quickly done, and the reports so controlled that there was little feeling of apprehension
throughout the city. No new cases developed from these cases.

During the year ending November gothere have been
reported in the city cases of disease of contagious nature,
with deaths, as compared with cases, with deaths
reported the prding year.

Of these diseases Diphtheria easily leads the list with 
cases. ‘This disease has been very steady in its appearance in 
every month of the year. No part of the city has been free
from this disease although the lower part of ward has sutfered
the most.

The total this year has been cases with deaths, a
death rate of per cent, as compared with cases with
 deaths, death rate of per cent reported during the
prding year. 

There have been cases of Scarlet Fever with deaths,
a death rate of per cent as compared with cases with
 deaths, death rate of per cent for the previous twelve

a
 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
months. This disease has also been present throughout the 
year and has been located in all parts of the city, ward again 
suffering the most from the disease. 
The number of cases of Measles has decreased over two .
thirds of those reported during gthere having been only
 cases with one death, death rate of per cent as compared with cases with deaths, death rate of per
cent. That these cases have been of light character is evident
from the low death rate the greater part of them occured from
February to June and they largely in wards three, seven and six
relatively.
There have been reported cases of Membranous Croup
with deaths, death rate of per cent as compared with 
cases with deaths, death rate of per cent, reported
during 
Typhoid Fever has not been quite as prevalent as last year, i
a large majority of the cases being traceable to causes outside 
of the city. ‘here have been cases reported with deaths,
a death rate of per cent as compared with cases with g
deaths, death rate of per cent reported during the previous rf
year. ,
\

CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL. 
For the past three years the Board have recommended that
preparations be made to erect in the near future hospital for
the care of diseases of contagious nature. The demands for
such hospital are becoming more and more pressing each year,
and the Board wish to again recommend that immediate steps
be taken to obtain site for such building, and that the erec tion of it be done as soon as possible.
Such building would be indispensable should an epidemic
of diphtheria or scarlet fever break out in our tenement districts,
and it would not only aid this Board to cope with such an outbreak, but would doubtless be the cause of saving the lives of

" REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
many of the children that would be affected in such an epidemic
' if they could be taken to some such institution and rive the
advantage of proper care, both from medicinal and surgical
 standpoint, and also from hygienic measures.
TABLE L.
Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months.
Scarlet Typhoid Small Membranous
Diphtheria. Measles. Fever. Fever. Pox. Croup. Total
Dmber, I I 
January, Ig I oe I 
February, I oe 
March, a 
April, I I 
May, 
June, II oe 
July, I ve I 
August, oe II oe 
September, I 
October, ws I 
November, o. II I 
Total, 

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE M.
Showing the contagious diseases by wards, as reported during
the past year.
 Wards 
I Total.
 Diphtheria, £ 
Scarlet fever, rr 
Measles, 
Memb. croup, I A I 
Smallpox, Lee Io ee. I 
Typhoid fever, I 
Total, 
TABLE N.
Showing number of deaths from contagious diseases
during go .

Diphtheria. Scar. Fev. Measles. Typhoid. Smallpox. Mem. Croup. Total.
Dmber, I I II
January, Le oe I .
February, a os 
March, Ls a 
April, I a ot 
May, a a tk
June, I a Le I
July, Le a te 
August, I os . 
September, a 
October, . . 
November, I 

Total, I 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the Board for the
year ending November oth, gor. 
Appropriation,, .,$. 
Ripts, , 
Total, ,, $. 
EXPENDITURES.
Pay roll and Salaries, . . . $. 
Bills, F,,. 
Transfers to other departments, ., 
Total, .,$. 
Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELL, Chairman.
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D., Secretary.
J. J. LINEHAN, Health Officer.
Board of Health.

REPORT OF THE HEALTH OFFICER.
To the Board of Health,

GENTLEMEN This report represents the work of the Health
Officer for the past year, showing the number of persons notified
to make changes in their property and the removal of nuisances
from their premises. During the past year I have found it nssary to take legal action against seven persons for violation of
the health rules, who had previous warning, for selling decayed
fruit and vegetables and three for decayed meat, conviction
being secured in each case.

I have continued to wage war on the sale of poor meat and
vegetables. In almost all cases these products have come from
outside of the city. I think there is now decided improve 
ment in the meat, fruit and vegetables sold in this city.

I wish to congratulate the Board on the removal of so many
old buildings, the total being twenty six, especially the old Fuller building on Oliver st t, which has been menace to life
and health for number of years.

Other duties performed by your officer are sufficiently set
forth in the accompanying tables. Several verbal and minor
complaints have been attended to, which were not of sufficient
importance to enter upon the records.

NOTICES SERVED AND PRODUCT DESTROYED.
Grapes destroyed baskets, ., 
Dead animals removed, ., . 
Decayed melons destroyed,,. 
Decayed bananas destroyed bunches,, 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Decayed berries destroyed quarts, . . 
Decayed meat destroyed pounds,. 
Swill cans ordered, . 
Dirty yards ordered cleaned, .,, 
Dirty cellars ordered cleaned,., 
Dirty catch basins ordered cleaned, Lo, 
Dirty sheds ordered cleaned, .,, 
Ash chutes ordered cleaned, . . . 
Stables ordered cleaned, . ., . 
Dirty markets ordered cleaned,,, 
Dirty fish carts ordered cleaned, 
Dirty tenements ordered cleaned, . 
Vacant houses ordered cleaned, , 
Workshops ordered cleaned, .,, 
Manure piles ordered removed, .ol 
Rooms fumigated, . ., 
Contagious disease cards posted, ., 
Dirty mattresses destroyed, . 
Meat, decayed, in alley, ordered removed, . 
Hens in cellar ordered removed, . 
Pigeons in cellar and buildings ordered removed, 
Water in cellar ordered removed, ., . 
Cows in cellar ordered removed, . . 
Pigs in cellar ordered removed, 
Throwing dirty water in street ordered stopped,g 
Barns closed, . ., 
Premises ordered vacated, ,g 
Buildings closed and condemned, . 
‘“ removed, . . . 
Rags in tenements ordered removed,., 
“cellars. an oo, . 
Dirty chicken coops ordered cleaned,, 
Garbage in cellars ordered removed, , 
Manure water in street ordered removed, 
Turkeys destroyed barrels . , 
Canned peas, “ dozen. ,
“ salmon destroyed, dozen,. 

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.

Milk in junk shop, sale stopped,. . I
School buildings disinfected, .,, 
Cellars damp, ordered repaired, 
House offal on land ordered removed, ., 
Offensive odors in buildings, .,. 
Untidy premises, , 
Rubbish in cellars ordered removed, . 
Houses and yards inspected, ., er 
Swill nuisances, te 
Dump nuisance,,,,, I
Houses without water, ordered supplied, . . 
Stagnant water nuisance, .,, 
Selling condemned ice, , I
Minor nuisances abated, 

In regard to the case of ice which was condemned, it was
decided by mutual consent between the members of the Board
of Health and the attorney for the defendant that he be allowed
to sell his ice for cold storage purposes only for this year.

The condition of the tenement property continues to improve, and will now compare favorably with that of any city of
this size.

In conclusion, I wish to return thanks to His Honor the
Mayor, to my very efficient assistant, Mr. John S. O’Neill, to
Marshal Wright, and the Police Department, and to all other
city officials for their courtesy and co operation, which have
been at all times of great assistance to me in my work.

Respectfully,
J. J. LINEHAN,
. Health Officer.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF PLUMBING EXAMINERS.
Lo the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN The Report of Board of Plumbing Examiners
for the fiscal year ending Nov. rgor, is hereby respectfully
submitted 
Number of applicants for Master Plumbers’ license, 

 Te Journeyman . 
Number of applicants successfully passing Master

Plumbers’ examination, . . 
Number of applicants successfully passing Journeymen Plumbers’ examination, 

A system of charts showing various forms of mistakes often
found in plumbing has been added to this office, and shows the
applicant’s knowledge of the theoretical as well as practical
plumbing. The results of the use of these charts are most 
gratifying. Respectfully submitted, ,

A. B. WETHERELL, M. D.
 JAMES L. TIGHE, City Engineer.
MARTIN BOWE, Practical Plumber.

REPORT OF THE
INSPECTOR OF PLUMBING. 
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN As Inspector of Plumbing I have the honor
of submitting the eighth annual report for the fiscal year ending
November While the incumbent has only been connected with this office since July he has endeavored to submit an accurate report for the entire year. The following table 
will show the extent and nature of the work.
Number of permits granted, ., 
Water closets put in new buildings, . 
Sinks ea “,, 
Baths ee“ “e,, 
Bowls com“ ‘ . 
Wash trays“ ,, 
Urinals nh “ ,, 
Traps ow “ ., 
Water closets put in old buildings, ., 
Sinks“ ,, 
Baths em ‘,, 
Bowls ew “ . . 
Wash trays wom“ “ ,, 
Urinals cea “e., 
Traps oe ‘ . . 
Plumbing tests made, , ., 
Inspection of houses with defective plumbing, 
Inspection made of old and new plumbing, 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances,, 

Each case has complied with the requirements of the Board.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. Ig
In addition to the inspections and testing of old and new
plumbing, great many examinations and peppermint tests have
been made at the request of the owners, agents or tenants, and
in most cases defective plumbing has been repaired on verbal
notification from the Inspector, and without any action by the
Board, and of which no records have been made. 
 Your Inspector would recommend revision of the plumbing
ordinance, as several sections should be changed to conform 
with the general improvements made in plumbing and ventilation.
In conclusion, I desire to thank the Members of the Board
for their courtesy and co operation. 
Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.
FO

REPORT OF THE BACTERIOLOGIST.
Lo the Board of Health, City of Holvoke

I have the honor to submit the following report for twentythree months ending November gor.

In the early part of January I was employed by the
Board to conduct the bacteriological examinations of cases of
diphtheria occurring in the City of Holyoke. According to the
rules of the Board of Health, free diagnosis of all doubtful cases
of diphtheria was hereby provided, and release from quarantine
of diphtheria cases was to be obtained after the examination
of two consecutive negative cultures. ‘lo carry out these regulations the Board of Health has been supplied with boxes of
sterile swabs, which have been distributed to many of the drug
stores in Holyoke for the convenience of the physicians. A
sterile swab consists of wire wound at one end with cotton inclosed in glass test tube, stoppered with cotton all of which
have been sterilized by dry heat. The laboratory has been
notified whenever there were swabs left for examination at the
City Hall before p. m., and messenger from the laboratory
makes regular collections of these boxes, and the Board of
Health has been notified of the results of the examinations
about a. m. on the following morning.

During the twenty three months there have been referred to
me for examination primary cases for diagnosis, and 
primary cases for release, making total of cases examined.
Of the cases for diagnosis were positive, that is, diphtheria
bacilli were present, and cases were negative, showing
absence of diphtheria bacilli, while showed no growth of any
organism. A “no growth” report gives absolutely no correct
knowledge of the presence or absence of the germs of diphtheria,

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH. 
and is consequently valueless as means of diagnosis in doubtful case, or as evidence of proper condition for release ina 
convalescent case. Many of the cultures that showed this absence of any organisms on the first trial gave either positive or
negative results on secondary examinations. A word should be
said concerning the very high number of no growth cultures recorded above. Nearly per cent of them occurred during the
months of Dmber goo, and January goand the others in
the immediate vicinity of these dates. No change had been
made in the service in any way and yet culture after culture
gave absolutely no growth. Careful investigation gave no clue
as to the cause of the trouble, which gradually ceased, and there
has been no recurrence of it.

‘There has been steady increase in the number of cultures
taken for release in positive cases, and the value of this procedure has been clearly demonstrated. In number of cases
the diphtheria germs have persisted for several weeks, and nine
or ten cultures have been submitted in each case.

Below will be found in tabular form, the classification and
summaries of the work accomplished.

CLASSIFICATION OF CASES EXAMINED.

Positive. Negative. No Growth. Total.
 For diagnosis, 
 For release, . I 
Totals, 
 For diagnosis, 
 For release, ., I 
Totals, . . 

Total cases examined Igoo, ., 

‘Total cases for years, , 

 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
. SUMMARY OF CULTURES EXAMINED.
Positive. Negative. No Growth. Total.
 For diagnosis, 
For release, . 
Totals, . Ct
 For diagnosis, 
For release, It 
Totals, ,
Total cases examined goo. . 
 ‘é ‘é “ IgOl,. . 
Total cases for years, ., 
I wish to thank the members of the Board of Health, and
also the physicians, for their assistance and co operation in
carrying on the work.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT C. EMERSON, M. D.
Bacteriologist.


Digitized by Google


