REPORT OF
BOARD OF HEALTH.
To the Honorable Mayor and Board of Aldermen

 GENTLEMEN In compliance with the Public Statutes the
Board of Health herewith respectfully submit for your consideration
the nineteenth annual report 

The board met for ‘organization on the first Monday in Febtuary, electing the following officers Chairman, Dr. Arthur B. 

. Wetherell Secretary, Dr. Frank A. Woods Health Officer, Mr.
Jeremiah J. Linehan Clerk, Mr. Joseph A. Murray.

During the year ending November this board have
endeavored to extend the work of this department in all of its
various lines, and as result, it is their pleasure to submit for your
inspection city which is more clean, more sanitary and consequently more healthy than ever before.

The constantly increasing number of complaints and petitions
add greatly to the work of the board, requiring, as they doina large
majority of the cases, inspection of the premises involved. This
means corresponding increase in the amount of travel by the
members of the board. The purchase of team for the use of the
department would greatly facilitate its work, allow better oversight of the men employed and reduce the item of travel expense,
which at the present time is considerable.

BAKERIES.

Such yearly inspections of the bakeries and their surroundings
as is prescribed by law have been made. Taken as whole these
important places, where so much of our food product is manufac REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

 tured, have been found in good condition. A number of minor
changes have been suggested and their enforcement will be carefully attended to. There are at present twenty three bakeries within our city limits. 

UNDERTAKERS, 

The licensing of undertakers by this board, as required by the
state statutes, have placed the workings of this department more 
directly under our control. Ten licenses have been granted to 
engage in this business, all having complied with the law.

There is now an increased attention shown in the detail of ,
statistics required in the return of death. This greatly adds to the ,
value of the statistics which are so valuable.

The law relative to the burial of all those dying from contagious
disease, and the preparation of those who have been thus affected
and are to be removed from the city for burial, is being rigidly 
enforced. As result the danger from the spread of contagion
from this source is greatly reduced. 

i
SLAUGHTER HOUSES. 

All slaughter houses and manufacturers of sausage and prepared 
meat within the city are now granted licenses by this board. 

The supervision of the places of business of those thus engaged, 
thus entailed, has caused an improvement in the character of the
articles furnished to the public for consumption.

The Inspector of Meat and Provisions has worked in full co 
operation with the board, and as result there is less diseased meat
exposed for sale. For some time the board have known that the 
importation of diseased meat and “ bob veal” was being carried on
to some extent at night. Close watch has proven that such was
the case and several prosecutions have served to greatly diminish
such practice.

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES.

The board have continued to wage war on the poor fruit and

vegetables furnished the public, and the improvement noted last


i

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
year has continued this year. The board consider this very
important line of work and find that it is being appreciated by
the public. 

BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES. ,
All applications for the erection or use of buildings as barns or
livery stables have rived careful consideration and the sites of
location have been inspected. Licenses for the construction and
use of such have been granted with few exceptions. People are
becoming more familiar with this law and there is less tendency
for the evasion of the same noted.
PLUMBERS. ,
The Board of Plumbing Examiners have examined all candidates referred to them for examination by this board. There have
been fourteen applications made to this board for plumber’s licenses
this year five for master plumber’s license and nine for journeyman’s
license. Of this number all five applications for master plumbers’ license have been granted and three of those applying for journeyman’s license.
INSPECTION OF SECOND HAND DEALERS AND
JUNK DEALERS. 
The board accompanied the Committee on Licenses in its
annual inspection of second hand dealers and junk dealers.
The board would respectfully recommend that fewer licenses
be granted to these people, who in many cases use this business as
a cloak for crime. This class are responsible for much of the filth
about the city, and acceptance of the above suggestion would aid in
simplifying this work. Ifthe ordinances could be so amended as
to require each junk dealer to have his name and license number
on his wagon it would greatly aid in our work.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TRAMP ROOM, PADDED CELL AND LOCK UP.

The board must again call attention to the tramp room, padded
cell and lock up. Some other place than the present quarters
should be provided at once for the accommodation of the tramps.
As noted last year the present quarters are not only too small, but
are unsuited for their present use, besides being nuisance. The
board would urgently request that some action be immediately
taken toward remedying this matter. The padded cell also
demands immediate attention. This room is often nssity, and
the present one is unfit for human occupancy. Some system of
ventilation should be established for the lock up. There is a
demand for better air in these detention rooms, and also freedom

. from the presently existing vermin.
INSPECTOR OF MILK AND VINEGAR.

The board indorses the work of the Inspector of Milk in his
endeavor to obtain for the city purer milk supply.

The board would suggest that the Inspector of Milk be placed
under this board, as is the case in most cities. In this way there
could be more satisfactory oversight of this .work that is in
reality part of the work of the Board of Health.

GENERAL WORK. 

The general work of keeping the city clean requires much
more time, care and attention by the members of this board than
is evident to any one who does not take especial interest in the
work and thus look into the subject. Much of this work lies in
abating small nuisances which affect only the localities in which
they exist. Dirty cellars, tenements and other buildings and stores
come under this head, and upon this work many times depends
the health of the locality. This tenement work not only tends to
directly decrease the mortality, but is great aid in the prevention
of epidemics. If each property owner would see to it that his
tenements and their surroundings are kept in clean condition it

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
would greatly aid this board in this very important work. The 
appended report of the Health Officer gives detailed report of
this work.

SANITARY INSPECTION. .

The board can report that the work in this division of its
department under the supervision of Plumbing Inspector Joseph
A. Murray has been carried on in the same thorough manner that
has characterized it during the past few years. Although the report
of the Plumbing Inspector shows that there has been less new work
done in the city during the past year, as evidenced by the number
of permits granted, the old work replaced has more than made up
the number of inspections required.

VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS.

The board has continued its endeavors to have all of the old
vaults and cesspools removed wherever the sewer privileges will permit. Over two hundred of these vaults have been removed at the
order of the board.

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

The board wish to call attention again to the Walnut street
sewer. Its outlet above the dam in the river is becoming more and
more of nuisance year by year, and the board would recommend
that some plan be at once approved to change the outlet and thus
abate the nuisance. 

The board is unanimous in the opinion that no sewage should

be allowed to enter the river above the dam, and any such plan will
be strenuously opposed.

The board also wish to call attention to the Essex street, the 
Front street, and the Jackson street sewers. Complaints have been
rived in these districts concerning backing up of water. This
has been more frequent in the district covered by the Essex
street sewer. A number of cellars have been flooded, and the danger
resulting therefrom is considerable.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

The board would recommend that in some way these sewers be
relieved from the pressure of storm water.

The board wish to again recommend that house to house
inspection of plumbing be made. That there is still much plumbing.
within the city which needs the attention of the board is evident,

 but itis impossible for this board with its present force to make this
desired inspection. The board would recommend that special
appropriation be made for this work and that at least part of the
work be done during the coming year.

VITAL STATISTICS. .

The board takes especial pleasure in reporting the work of
this branch of our department. For the past two years the board
have been establishing series of statistics which will fill all of the
requirements in the line of records. This work has become nssary owing to the large number of inquiries that come to this office
from many sources, among which are the different departments of

. the Government and the various State Boards of Health, for
statistics in the different subjects now included in the tabulation of
mortality.

The record of this city for the past twelve months is one in
which the department take just pride. Not only is the number of
deaths less this year than for any year since but the death
rate is lower than that of any year for the past fifteen years. This
is considered exceptional in manufacturing city, where the population is as variable and of such large per cent foreign.

 The number of deaths during has been as compared

to during the death rate for the year is reduced from

 in to during decrease of per
thousand inhabitants.

The following list of tables shows the number of deaths, the
age at death, the cause of death, the nativity and burial places of
the same. A table is also appended showing the comparative
number of deaths, still births, and the per cent per thousand
people for the past ten years.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE A.
Table showing the number of deaths and still births during the year.
Deaths. Still Births. Total.
Dmber, . . . 
January, . . 
February, . . . 
March, . 
 April, . . . 
May, . . . I 
June, . . . 
July, . . . 
August, . . 
 September, . . . 
October, . . . 
November, . . 
Total, . . . 
TABLE B.
Table showing the comparative number of deaths, still births and
death rate for the past ten years 
Deaths. Still Births. Total. Death Rate.


 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE C. ,
Table showing the sex of those dying and also that of still births.
Deaths. Still Births. Total.
Male. Female. Male. Female.
Dmber, I 
January, ss 
February, . te 
March, . 
April, . I 
May, . os I 
June, . 
July, . os 
August, . 
September, . 
October,. 
November,. 
Total, . 
TaBLeE D.
Table showing the deaths by sex and age.
Males. Females. Total.
Under year, . . 
Between and . . 
Over . 
Unkown, . . I I
Total, . . . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE E.
Table showing the causes of all deaths occurring during the year
of 
GENERAL DISEASES. 
Whooping cough, . Tuberculosis of meninges,. 
. Diphtheria, . Scrofula, . 
Memb. croup, . Syphilis, . 
Scarletfever, . Rheumatism, . I
Typhoid fever, . Ir Anemia, . 
Malarial fever, . I Cancer of face, I 
Cerebro spinal fever, . Cancer of breast, . tI
Septiczmia, . Cancer of peritoneum, St
Erysipelas, . Cancer of stomach, 
Phthisis pulmonalis, . Cancer of uterus, 
Tuberculosis, N.S. . Cahcer of bladder, . I
Tuberculosis of mesentary, Cancer, N.S., . 
Total, . . . . I I
NERVOUS DISEASES.
Encephalitis, . I Spina bifida, . 
Meningitis, . Hydrocephalus, 
Congestion of brain, . Neurasthenia, I
Softening of brain, . Traumatic neurosis, . tI
Abscess of brain, . Locomotor ataxia, . tI
Cerebral thrombus, Epilepsy,. 
Apoplexia, . Convulsions, infantile, 
Paralysis, sy Insanity, 
Sclerosis, . . Potts’ disease, . I
Paralysis agitans, . Alcoholism, . I
Friedreichs’ disease, . Atresia glottitis, . I
Total, . . . . 
ag. Notstated.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
URINARY DISEASES.

Bright’s disease, . Cystitis, . . I
Nephritis, . . Uremia, . . I
Diabetes, . . 

Total, . . . . 

DIGESTIVE DISEASES.

Gastritis, . “Mal nutrition, . ow
Gastro enteritis, Dysentery,. 
Enteritis, . Cholera infantum, 
Entero colitis, . Hepatitis, . 
Appendicitis, . Abscess of liver, . iI
Peritonitis, . Cirrhosis of liver, 
Obstruction of intestines, Atrophy of liver, . I
Ulceration of intestines, Gangrene of pancreas, tI
Hemorrhage of intestines, Marasmus, . 
Inanition, . . Jaundice, . 

Total, . . . . 

RESPIRATORY DISEASES.

Asthma, . . Ocedema oflungs,. 
Spasmodic croup, . Pneumonia, . 
Bronchitis, . Pleurisy, . 
Hemorrhage of lungs, Emphysema, . iI
Congestion of lungs, . Influenza, . . II

Total, . . . . gI

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
CIRCULATORY DISEASES.
Pericarditis, . I Fatty degeneration of the .
Endocarditis, . I heart, . 
Angina pectoris, Myocarditis, . i
Valvular disease of the heart, Embolism, . .
Hypertrophy of the heart, Heart disease,N.S. . 
Dilatation of the heart, 
Total, . . . . 
GENERATIVE DISEASES.
Puerperal convulsions, Hemorrhage of uterus, it.
Parturition, . I Qvarian tumor, . iI
Total, . . . . 
VIOLENT CAUSES.
Suicide by hanging, Burnorscald, . 
Suicide by poison, Fall, . . tI
Homicide, . I. Electric car injury, . tI
Asphyxia by drowning, Railroad injury, 
Asphyxia by smoke, I Gunshot, . . I
Asphyxia by strangulation, Instrumental delivery, 
Asphyxia, N. S., . Hemorrhage of Umbilicus, 
Fracture of skull, Shock of injury, . I
Fracture of hip, . 
Total, t e 
, N.S. Not stated. 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
UNCLASSIFIED.

Premature birth, . Congenital, . I

Asthenia, general, . Inflammation of leg, . t

Asthenia, infantile, . Genera atrophy, . tI

Asthenia, senile, . 

Old age, Total, 

‘Chronic ostitis, . Unknown, . 

Total, . . . . 

TABLE F.
Table showing the nativity of those dying during the year.
 Still Births included.

Holyoke, . New Brunswick, . I

Mass. otherwise, Barbadoes,. I

‘Other States, . Russia, . . 

 Austria, . . 

Total U.S.,. France, . I
Ireland, ‘ Italy, I

Canada, . Nova Scotia, 

Germany, Unknown, 

England, . 

Scotland, . Total, . . 

TABLE G.
‘Table showing the burial places of those dying in the city and
those brought here for burial.

Calvary, . West Holyoke, . 

Elmwood, Brightside, . 

Forestdale, . g South Hadley Falls, 

St. Jerome, . Out of town, otherwise, 

Total, .. 

Local burials, . . . . 

 Brought to Holyoke for burial, . . 

sent away for burial, . . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF H&ALTH. 
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
This city has reason to congratulate itself that no epidemics of
a contagious nature have occurred within its limits during the past
year. Although almost without exception our surrounding cities
and towns have been visited by epidemics of various contagions,
we are able to report substantial decrease in the number of cases
of contagious disease. There have been reported during the past
year cases of contagious disease, as compared with cases
during decrease of per cent. Diphtheria has been much
more prevalent here during the year ending November ,
than during but at no time has it approached an epidemic.
Typhoid fever has also increased, but there have only been cases
of this disease during the year. All other contagious diseases have
been on the decrease, and even in the two in which we report an
increase the death rate has decreased. This year we report 
cases of diphtheria with deaths, while last year we had cases
with ro deaths. During we had cases of typhoid fever
with deaths, and in we had cases with deaths. The
total number of contagious diseases this year has been with
 deaths, as compared with cases and deaths in .
During the past year the board has purchased formaldehyde
disinfecting machine, and all fumigation is now done under the
direct supervision of the board. This is found to be much more
satisfactory, as under the old regime much of the fumigation existed
in name only, and there was, consequently, an increased opportunity for the spread of disease. After considerable investigation
the board has made arrangements to have bacteriological examination made of all doubtful or supposed cases of diphtheria.
Cultures will be taken from the throats of all who are thus affected
and microscopical examination made. This will determine
definitely what of these cases are diphtheria and what are not.
‘This will undoubtedly increase our number of cases of diphtheria,
as Many cases now supposed to be common sore throat are doubtJess light attacks of diphtheretic nature, but it will insure us
better protection from contagion.
A full set of maps of the city is now in the possession of the
board, showing the exact location of every case of contagious

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
nature that has existed within the city during the past year. This
greatly aids in locating unhealthy parts of the city, as well as the
search for the cause of the same.

The need of some hospital or building for cases of contagious
nature is being felt more and more every year. Many cities even
smaller than Holyoke now possess such hospitals, and the board
would recommend that steps be taken toward obtaining such a
building for this city.

The following tables show the exact extent of contagious disease
in the city during the past year, the number of cases of each disease,
the number of cases in each ward and the number of deaths from
each disease.

 TABLE H.
Table showing the number of the various contagious diseases
occurring in the various months.
theria, Measles. vover, Fever. Fover. Croup. ‘pox. Total
Dmber, I I I 
January, I I 
February, I we I 
 March, os os ' Q
April, se 
May, I os .e 
June, ws I oe 
July, I oe 
August, os we we ws 
September, we oe 
 October, II I 
November, we es cae we 
Total, we 

REPURT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. ,
TABLE L. 
 Table showing the number of each contagious disease in each of
the wards of the city. ,
. Ward Ward Ward Ward Ward Ward Ward Total
Diphtheria, 
Measles, I I I we 
Scarlet fever, 
Typhoid fever, 
Typhus fever, . oe oe 
Memb. croup, I I oe oe 
Smallpox, oe oe te oe te 
Total, 
TABLE M.
Table showing the number of deaths from each of the contagious
diseases during the year.
iph . IPA, wonton fe, Pete, ola Het Stl" ota
Dmber, I 
January, oe I I 
February, I a I
“March, L. vs a
April, I I
May, a 
June, I I
July, 
August, I a I .
September, 
October, I a 
November, I I 
Total, YT 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
GARBAGE AND HOUSE OFFAL.

The work in this very important branch of our department has
been pushed with persistency, and the present condition of our
alleys and the work of gathering house offal is the result of the efficient work of our Health Officer, Mr. J. J. Linehan, under the
direction of the board. Early in the year the board decided to
take determined stand in the matter of the separation of the house
offal from the ashes and other refuse. Of course many obstacles
have been met, but the present condition is entirely satisfactory to the
board, the plan having been in operation only one year. This
arrangement has caused an increased amount of work to all those
engaged in gathering the house offal, owing to the fact that. previously much of the house offal was mixed with the ashes. The
collection of the house offal has this year been under the direction
of Mr. M. J. Haley, and that the work has been faithfully and satisfactorily done is evidenced by the few complaints that have been
rived.

The collection of garbage is requiring an additional amount of
work every year. During the past year about loadsof this 
material has been collected, an increase of about loads over
that of last year. At present our dumping grounds are filling the
requirements, but with the present yearly increase it will be but
a short time when other arrangements must be made to meet the
demand. .

The only satisfactory way to do this will be the establishment
of crematory, which would care for the garbage and also for the
house offal. The board would recommend that the city take measures to investigate this subject with the end in view of erecting such
a place for the use of this department.

The appended report of the Health Officer gives the detail of
the work in this branch of the department.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
The following is the financial statement of the board for the
year ending November 
Appropriation, . ., 
Ripts, . .,, 
Balance, . . . . 
Total, . . . $. ,
EXPENDITURES.
Salaries and pay roll, wo. $. 
Bills, 
Collection of house offal, . . I,O I. 
Pest house keeper, . . . 
Transferred to other departments, . 
Total, . . $. 
Respectfully submitted,
 A. B. WETHERELL, M. D.,
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D.,
J. J. LINEHAN.


