CITY OF HOLYOKE.

In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Seventy Four.
AN ORDINANCE CONCERNING THE PUBLIC HEALTH.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Holyoke, as follows 

SECTION The Mayor and Aldermen for the time
being, are hereby appointed and constituted the Board
of Health, and shall have power to carry into execution
all laws of the commonwealth and ordinances of the
City Council, made for the preservation of the health of
the inhabitants of the city.

SEc. The Chief of Police shall, subject always to
the discretion, authority and control of the Mayor, carry
into execution, all the ordinances and rules made by the
City Council, and all rules made by the Board of
Health, relative to causes of sickness, nuisance and
sources of filth that may be injurious to health, or may
affect the comfort of the inhabitants of the city, existing within the limits thereof, and shall cause all such
nuisances, sources of filth and causes of sickness to be

. removed or prevented, as the case may require, conformably to such ordinances and rules, and the laws of the
commonwealth. .

Src. Every tenement in the city used as dwelling house, shall be furnished when it can be done with 
out unreasonable expense, with sufficient drain to
carry off the waste water into common sewer or reservoir, which drain or reservoir shall be under ground,

ORDINANCES. 
and no person shall suffer any waste or stagnant water
to remain in any cellar or on any lot of land or vacant
ground, occupied or owned by him, so as to become a
nuisance, or offensive or dangerous to the public health.

Src. Every tenement in the city used as dwelling house, shall be furnished with sufficient watercloset or with privy, the vault of which shall be underground and of sufficient capacity, regard being had
to the number of persons occupying said tenement.
Every such vault shall be so constructed that the con tents thereof shall in no case escape therefrom, or ooze
out upon the adjoining grounds, nor shall the contents
of any such vault be suffered to remain within less than
eight inches of the even surface of the ground.

SEo. The owner or occupant of any tenement
which shall be used as dwelling house, without being
furnished with sufficient water closet, or with privy
and vault as provided in the prding section, shall forfeit and pay sum not exding twenty dollars for each
and every week, during which, such tenement or any
part thereof shall be so used after the owner or occupant of such tenement has been duly notified by the
Board of Health, and the owner or occupant has had a
reasonable time to construct privy or vault as required
by the Board of Health.

Src. No privy shall be used without vault, and
the vaults of all privies hereafter constructed, shall be
so constructed that the inside thereof shall be not less
than two feet distant from the line of every adjoining
lot of land, unless with the consent of the owner of such

, adjoining lot, and also shall not project into any street,
lane, alley, court, public place and private way in the
city. 

Sro. Any person who shall hereafter construct,
maintain or keep for use, vault or privy hereafter constructed contrary to the provisions of the prding section, shall forfeit sum not exding twenty dollars

 ORDINANCES.
for each and every week during which such vault or
privy so constructed shall be used.

SEo. Whenever any vault, privy or drain, shall
become offensive, or obstructed, the owner, agent, occupant or other person having charge of the land in which
said vault, privy or drain may be situated, shall clear,
cleanse, alter, amend or repair the same, within such
reasonable time after notice in writing to that effect
given by the Board of Health, as shall be expressed in
such notice. In case of neglect or refusal so to do, said
Board may cause the same to be cleared, cleansed,
altered, amended or repaired as they may deem expedient, at the expense of the owner, agent, occupant or
other person as aforesaid, but no vault shall be opened
for the purpose of being cleansed, between the twentieth
day of June and the first day of October in each year, 
except by the special permission of the Chief of Police
nor in any instance between the hours of four o’clock
in the morning and ten o’clock at night nor in any
other mode, or at any other time, than said Chief of
Police shall direct and appoint, conformable to the ordinances of the city, and to such regulations as the
Mayor and Aldermen shall, from time to time make on
this subject, and always at the expense of the owner,
agent, occupant or other person having charge of the
tenement in which such vault is situated. All applications for opening and cleansing vaults shall rive attention in the order in which they are made. The Mayor and Aldermen shall, from time to time determine the
sum to be paid by persons who shall make such applications provided, that any individual or corporation,
who shall certify in writing to the Chief of Police, that
the vaults owned by them, or under their control, have
been properly cleansed since April st of the current
year, such individuals or corporations, so notifying,
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section, beginning with, and following the words, ‘‘ but no vault
shall be opened, etc.”’

ORDINANCES. 

Src. No person shall empty vault or privy contrary to the provisions of the prding section.

Sto. No owner or occupant of any land in which
any vault may be situated, shall neglect or refuse to
cleanse the same, after being notified by the Mayor and
Aldermen or Chief of Police, that the same has become
offensive. 

Sec. When the Board of Health shall be satisfied that any building is not furnished with sufficient
drain, privy and vault, or either of them, they may
give notice in writing to the person having the care of
such building, whether as owner or agent, if known,
and if either of them be resident within the city, and if
otherwise, public notice may be given by posting such
notice on the premises and publishing the same in some
newspaper published and circulated in the city, requiring that suitable drain, privy and vault, or either of
them, be constructed within such time as they shall appoint for the use of such building, and in case such

requisition be not complied with, the Board may cause
such drain, privy and vault, or either of them, to be
constructed, the expense of which shall be paid by such
owner or agent. ,

SEo. No person shall drive, or cause to be driven, any cart or wagon containing night soil, or any
wagon or cart used for that purpose, through any street,
lane or alley in the city, between the hours of four
o’clock, A. M. and nine o'clock, P. M. nor permit any
such wagon or cart to stand, between said hours, in any
street, lane or alley in said city.

SEo. No person shall bring into the city for sale,
or offer for sale, any diseased, putrid, stale or unwholsome meat, fish or other provisions.

Sro. All house dirt, filth, rubbish and waste
matter collected in any part of the city, which may be a
nuisance, source of filth or cause of sickness, shall, at
the order of the Mayor, be removed by the Chief of Po ORDINANCES.
lice therefrom, at the expense of the owner or occupant
of the place where such cause of offense may be, unless
such owner or occupant shall remove the same within
twenty four hours after being ordered so to do by the
Mayor in writing, and notice of such order duly served
upon him. The Chief of Police, when thereto ordered
by the Mayor, shall at any time between sunrise and
sunset, enter into any building or other place in the city,
for the purpose of examining into, destroying, remov ing or preventing any nuisance, source of filth or cause
 of sickness therein, and in case such entrance be opposed, he shall make known ‘such opposition to the
Board of Health, in order that warrant may be obtained to enforce the same as provided by law.

Src. Whenever the Board of Health shall find
that the number of persons occupying any tenement is
so great as to be cause of nuisance, or sickness, or
source of filth, the Board may cause all or any persons

. occupying such tenement, to be removed therefrom, first
giving them notice in writing to remove, and allowing .
them the space of at least forty eight hours in which to
comply with such notice.

Src. The city physician shall attend, under the
general directions of the overseers of the poor, upon all
sick paupers and patients under the care of the city authorities, at the almshouse or elsewhere, within the limits of the city shall render all services by law incumbent upon the physicians appointed by the Board of
Health, and shall report annually, in January, to the
City Council, list of deaths of the previous year, stating the age, sex, and disease of the person dased. In
case of alarm of any infectious or contagious disease,
the city physician shall give to either branch of the City
Council, or any Committee thereof, all such professional advice and ‘counsel as they may request of him 
shall vaccinatejall scholars’of the public schools that
may be sent to him by the School Committee for that
purpose, and generally perform such other professional

ORDINANCES. 
services may reasonably be required of him by the
Board of Health, or either Board of the City Council. SEO. Whenever case of small pox or varioloid
shall occur within the city, the occupant where such
case may occur shall report the same to the Board of
Health or Chief of Police forthwith, and shall also restrain all children belonging to the premises from attending school or going at large until all danger from
contagion has subsided.

Sko. The Chief of Police shall cause red flag
to be displayed from conspicuous part of any building in which case of small pox or varioloid is known
to exist, until he has reason to believe such disease is
removed and no person or persons shall remove said
flag, unless by permission of the Chief of Police or city
physician.

Sec. Every physician in the city shall make
known to the Board of Health or Chief of Police, all
cases of small pox or varioloid, and all other conta. gious diseases that may come to his knowledge, within
six hours after learning the existence of the same.

SEO. No child shall be admitted into any public
school in this city, until said child shall produce certificate from physician, or such evidence as shall be
satisfactory to the School Committee of having been
successfully vaccinated.

SEo. Any person who shall offend against any
of the provisions of the sixteenth, seventeenth and
eighteenth sections of this ordinance, shall forfeit and
pay foreach and every offense sum ‘not less than
five dollars nor more than twenty five dollars.

Src. The Mayor and Aldermen are authorized
to prohibit the keeping of swine and goats in any part
or parts of the city, where they shall deem that the
keeping of such animals, would be detrimental to the
health or comfort of the citizens in the neighborhood
thereof residing or passing, and shall have power to re ORDINANCES.

move or cause to be removed, any swine or goats from
‘any place where the keeping of such animals is prohibited.

SEo. No person shall Keep any swine or goats in
any place in said city, in which the keeping of said animals is prohibited, or from which he is required to remove the same, twenty four hours after having rived
notice in writing from the Board of Health to remove
the same, or that such animals are prohibited from being kept in such place and whoever offends against
the provisions of this section, shall forfeit and pay a
penalty not exding twenty dollars for each offense.

Sto. No person shall go about, in or through
any of the streets, squares or highways of the city, collecting or carrying away swill, or offal unless duly authorized or licensed by the Mayor and Aldermen, and
all offal or swill so collected and carried as before provided shall be put and carried in close covered cart,
box or other tight vessel, and shall be taken away and
removed not less than three times week between the
first days of April and November in each year, and
not less than twice week between the first day of November and the first day of April next sucding.

SEo. The Mayor shall cause all persons who
persistently violate or disobey the laws of the commonwealth, or the rules, orders, by laws, or ordinances for
the preservation of the health of the city which are now
in force, or which shall hereafter be made by lawful authority, to be forthwith prosecuted and punished.

SEc. Whoever shall offend against or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this ordinance, unless
otherwise provided herein, shall forfeit and pay penalty of not more than twenty dollars for each offense.

Sto. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
to keep an exact and true account of all costs, outlays
and expenses, that may be incurred in carrying into effect any of the purposes and provisions set forth or conORDINANCES. 
tained in this ordinance, and without delay report the
same to the City Treasurer, with the names of the various persons to whom they may be chargeable, and the
proportion or amount to be paid by each person and 
the Treasurer shall examine, correct and charge the
same in his books, and without delay make out bills
therefor, and collect the same under the direction of the
City Council.

SEo. The City Clerk shall keep record of the
prodings of the Mayor and Aldermen when acting
as Board of Health.

In Common Council, August .

Passed to be ordained.

C. H. Hrywoop, President.
In Board of Aldermen, August .

Passed to be ordained. 
W. B. C. PEarsons, Mayor.


