REPORT OF THE 

BOARD OF HEALTH
To the Honorable the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen

Gentlemen In compliance with the public statutes, the
Board of Health herewith submit for your consideration the
twenty fourth annual report.

The Board met for organization on the first Monday of
February, electing the following officers Chairman, Dr. Arthur
B. Wetherell secretary, Dr. Frank A. Woods health ofticer,
Mr. Jeremiah J. Linehan.

GENERAL WORK.

In submitting this report, the Board is pleased to state that
the general public health and sanitary conditions of Holyoke
compare most favorably with cities of its size throughout the
commonwealth. 

The public health of the city has constantly occupied the
minds cf the members of the Board, individually and collectively,
and all nuisances, sources of filth, causes of infectious or commun 
icable diseases and the general routine work has in every case
rived immediate and careful attention. In order to protect
the public health and to keep the mortality down to minimum,
it is often nssary to enforce the laws and to adopt such rules
as will best remedy existing conditions. This the Board has endeavored to do irrespective of place or person.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

There are yet several old and dilapidated buildings, the removal of which would greatly improve the sanitary condition of
the localities in which they exist. Eight such buildings have
been removed during the past year by order of the Board.

BAKERIES.

The Board has continued to exert the utmost care in the
supervision of bakeries. Such inspections of bakeries and their

 surroundings as is prescribed by law have been made.

The general condition of these important places where much
of our food product is manufactured was found very satisfactory
in most cases. Eight warnings for minor offences were sent to
owners of bake shops and the Board will continue to use its best
efforts to keep these shops up to the standard.

Four new bakeries have been installed during the year and
there are at present twenty eight bakeries in operation in the
city.

BACTERIOLOGY.

The Board has continued the system of bacteriological examinations in all cases of diphtheria or throat trouble of suspicious
nature with very satisfactory results. Of cultures examined
it was found that were negative thus saving expense, danger
and annoyance in quarantining many people.

The Board would request each physician to exercise care and
promptness in taking swabs for diagnosis and release. In all
cases when the clinical symptoms indicate diphtheria and the
swab taken is returned negative, second swab for diagnosis
should be taken on the following day. Two consecutive negative
swabs are the smallest number that should be relied upon as an
evidence that danger of contagion is passed in case.

Appended is the report of the Bacteriologist.

. REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
UNDERTAKERS.

Thirteen licenses have been granted during this year. The
undertakers are prompt in filing the certificates of death, and are
careful in making their returns.

SLAUGHTER HOUSES.

 All manufacturers of sausage and prepared meat within the
city have been granted licenses by this Board. Ten liceases have
been granted for the manufacture of sausage, prepared meat and
slaughtering. There is only one licensed slaughter house within
the city limits.

The supervision of these places of business has caused an improvement in the character of the articles furnished to the public
for consumption. ,

BARBER SHOPS.

The Board can state that all the barber shops are doing work
in strict accordance to the rules and regulations and there have
been no complaints. Two general inspections of barber shops
have been made during the year and the same were found provided with running hot and cold water and in good sanitary condition. There are at present fifty two barber shops in the city.

FRUITS AND VEGETABLES.

The Board was forced to resort to legal measures in three
cases for selling decayed fruit, with convictions in each case.
These convictions were for peddlers from outside of the city, who
had no licenses.

We are pleased to state that there is no cause for complaint
with local dealers and the city is practically free from the sale of
decayed fruit and vegetables.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
INSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR AND PETROLEUM.
A rule condemning the use of the wooden plugs for milk
cans was passed by this Board, April the same to take
effect on and after July of the current year, and the Board is
pleased to report that all milk dealers have complied with said
rule.
We can report that the duties of this office are performed
 in most satisfactory manner, the general quality of milk is up
to the standard and there have been very few complaints.
The placing of the Milk Department under this Board with 
. out an extra appropriation has compelled the Bvard to economize in every conceivable way. The bills for the Milk Depart ment for the current year will be $.nssitating transfer of money to this department to meet expenses for the fiscal
year. We would therefore request an extra appropriation to
cover the expenses of this department next year.
BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES.
A circular explaining the state laws and the requirements of
the Board has been sent to all contractors, so that there may be
no mistake by the building or occupancy of barn without a
license. The general condition of barns in this city is most satisfactory. 
Nine applications have been rived for the erection or use 
of buildings as barns. These have rived careful consideration.
The locations have been inspected and permits have been
granted in all cases.

BOARD OF PLUMBING EXAMINERS.
The Board of Plumbing Examiners have examined all ap 
plicants referred to them by this Board. 
There have been two applications made to the Board for
Master and five for Journeyman plumber’s licenses.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Six of the above applicants were granted licenses and one
was refused.

Appended is the report of the Plumbing Examiners.

SANITARY INSPECTION.

, The Board can report that the work in this division of its
department has been carried on in thorough and satisfactory
manner.

The report of the Inspector of Plumbing shows that there
has been more new work done in the city during the past year
than in the prding twelve months, and the addition of the
unusually large amount of old work condemned and replaced,
together with the required tests, have nssitated large num 
ber of inspections. 

A house to house inspection of plumbing is an urgent
nssity and the Board would again recommend that special
appropriation be made and the work commenced early in the
year. The report of the Inspector of Plumbing is appended.

VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS.

Wherever sewer privileges have allowed, the use of the
vault has been condemned. The Board is pleased to state that
there are practically no vaults remaining in the city.

SEWERS AND DIRAINS. 

The Board is pleased to state that an agreement has been
made with the Board of Public Works, whereby the outlet of
the Walnut street sewer will be extended below the dam and the
nuisance abated.

The large amount of sewage discharged directly from the
mills into the canals in their course through the city is objectionable from sanitary point of view, and the public health demands
that some other disposal of this sewage should be made.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

The Board would again recommend that lateral sewers be
laid on Main street, north and south from Berkshire street, and
that some provision be made for the east side of North Summer
street.

The completion of the Highland and Ingleside sewers will
enable the Board to cause the removal of the privy vaults and
cesspools in these localities and the city will now be practically
free from these vaults. 

VITAL STATISTICS.

The Board present for consideration the following tables,

a resume of the Vital Statistics for year ending Nov. 

 There has been reported during the year deaths and 
still births, death rate of per cent. per thousand inhabitants, which compared with deaths and still births, a
death rate of per cent. per thousand reported during ,
shows an increase this year of only deaths, or less than one half
of one per cent. This is satisfactory when the increasing, and at
the same time rapidly changing population, is considered, and
also when the fact is noted that of the deaths recorded during
the year have been non residents.

Table A, as appended, shows the comparative number of
deaths, still births and death rates for the past fifteen years. It
is interesting in that it shows that during this period there have
been deaths in the city, an average of deaths per
year, with an average death rate of per cent per thousand.
It shows that while the population of the city has increased
during this time from in to at the present
time, there has not been corresponding increase in the number
of deaths.

 Table B presents the number of deaths and still births 
occuring each month of the year, showing an average of 
deaths per month. By comparison with the table it will be seen
that there has been but little variation from the average during
the various months and also that there is an absence of the usual
high mortality during the summer.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Table C shows that of the deaths recorded during the
year or per cent were males and or per cent
were females and of the still births reported were males
and were females. By referring to the corresponding statistics for we find that during last year per cent were
males and per cent were females, showing an increase of
 per cent in deaths among females and corresponding
decrease in the deaths among males.

‘ Table D gives deaths by sex and age, showing that of the
 death recorded, or per cent were under one year
of age, or per cent were under five years of age
and or per cent were over fifty years of age. Comparing these with when there were or per cent under
‘one year of age, or per cent were under five years of
age and or per cent were over fifty years of age, we
find that there has been decrease of or per cent in the
number of deaths under one year of age, decrease of or
 per cent in the number of deaths under five years of age
and an increase of or per cent in the number of deaths
over fifty years of age.

It is also interesting to note that of those under one year,
 were males and were females, of those under five years
of age were males and were females and of those over
fifty years of age were males and females.

Table E shows the number of deaths occurring at the various ages in the several months and it is interesting as showing the
time of the year when the greatest mortality occurs at different

"periods of life.

Table F presents list of diseases with the number of deaths
from these causes during the past twelve months. It shows 
deaths from diseases of contagious nature as compared with 
during the prding year. We find marked increase in the 

 number of deaths from tuberculosis, there having been as
compared with during There have been deaths from
cancer as compared with during the prding year. We also
find an increased number of deaths from diseases of the heart and

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
circulation, this increase occurring largely in people over fifty
years of age.

In nervous and digestive digeases, we find little variation
from the number of deaths recorded last year, and note slight
decrease in the deaths due to violent causes.

Table G gives the number of deaths occurring in each of
the institutions of the city and also those occurring in each ward.
It is of interest as showing that portion of the city in whieh
there is the greatest mortality. Wards Two and Four still have
the greatest mortality, as in the past few years, the mortality in
the other wards, however, is more evenly divided. One hundred
and ninety five or per cent of the total deaths of
the city occurred in the institutions. Seventy seven or 

 per cent of the deaths occurred among non residents of the
 city.

In Table H will be found the nativity of those dying in the
city. Of the deaths, were born in Holvoke, in .
Massachusetts otherwise, and total of in the United
States, were born in Ireland, in Canada, in Germany,
 each in England and Scotland, and the remainder in other

. foreign countries.

Table K presents the place of interment of all bodies
buried in the city, also the number of those sent away or
brought here for burial. It shows that “ bodies were brought
to Holyoke and sent away for burial. Nine hundred and
eighty eight burial permits were issued during the year.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE A.
Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births and
 death rates for the past fifteen years.
 Deaths Still births Total Death rate

Average death rate for fifteen years, 

, TABLE B. ,

Shows deaths and still births during .
Deaths Still births Total
Dmber,. 
January, , 
February, 
 March, ., 
April, . 
May,, 
June,, ., 
July, 
August, . . 
September, . . it
October,,, R 
November, 
Total, gL
Pe

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE C.
Showing sex of deaths and still births during .
Male Deathe emale Male Female Total
Dmber, . 
January, 
February, 
March, . . 
April, . . 
May, ., 
June,,. 
July, . . 
August, 
September, . 
October, 
November, . 
Total, 
TABLE D. 
Showing deaths by sex and age.
Males Females Total
Under one year, . 
From one to two, . 
From two to three, . 
From three to four, . 
From four to five, . 
From five to ten,. 
From ten to fifteen,, .
From fifteen to twenty, . 
From twenty to thirty, . ol 
From thirty to forty, 
From forty to fifty, . 
From fifty to sixty, . 
From sixty to seventy, . 
From seventy to eighty, 
Over eighty, . 
Unknown, ., 
Total, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE KE. ,
Showing the number of deaths occurring at the various ages,
during each month.
Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Total
Under yr., 
 
 
Over 
 
TABLE F.
Showing the number of deaths from each of the following
causes, occurring in the city during the year .
GENERAL.
Diphtheria, . Cancer of face, 
Scarlet fever, . “ intestines, 
Typhoid fever, “ stomach, M 
Remittant fever, “ liver, ,
Cerebro sp. fever, . uterus, . 
Memb. croup, . “ “ breast, . 
Septicemia, . kidney, . 
Rheumatism. . “ mesentery, 
Auemia, . co rectum, 
Scrofula, . “ “ ovary, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Syphilis, . Cancer of glands of neck, 
Erysipelas, . “ & gpleen, . 
Rachitis,. “ not stated, 
Phthisis pulmonalis, Sarcoma of thyroid, 
Tuber. laryngitis, “ orbit, 
“peritonitis, intestines, 
“ meningitis, “ gpleen, 
Tuberculosis of intestines, Osteo sarcoma of jaw, 
“ not stated, Otitis media,, 
Total, .,, 
NERVOUS DISEASES. 
Alcoholism, Cerebral congestion,
Meningitis, “ abscess, 
Apoplexy, . ‘ concussion, 
Ascend. spinal paralysis, “ sclerosis, 
Epilepsy, cc softening, 
Convulsions infantile, oe embolism, 
Spina bifida, . ‘ tumor, . 
Paralysis, Multiple neuritis, ,
Hemiplegia, Sclerosis of cord, 
Locomotor ataxla, Neurasthenia,. 
Sciatica traumatic, 
Total, 
URINARY DISEASES. 
Bright’s disease, . Uremia, , 
Parenchymatous nephritis, Cystitis,, 
Interstitial nephritis, Diabetes mellitus, 
Total, ,. 
DIGESTIVE DISEASES.
 Inanition, oo, Entero colitis, 
Marasmas, Tleo colitis, 
Acute indigestion, .& Intestinal obstruction, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Appendicitis, Co Dysentery, 

Intestinal hemorrhage, Peritonitis, 

Gastritis,. Abscess of Liver, 

Gastric dilation,. Cirrhosis of liver, . 

“ ulcer, Addison’s disease, 

Cholera morbus, Icterus neonatorum, 

Cholera infantum, . Impaction of gall stones, 

Gastro enteritis,. Jaundice,, 

Enteritis, . Strangulated hernia, 

Total, .,, 
CIRCULATORY DISEASES.

Heart disease, not stated MRheumatic endocarditis, 
 “ fatty degeneration, Mitral regurgitation, 
“ yalvular dis., Aortic 

paralysis, Mitral insufticiency, 
“ dilation,. Aortic insufficiency, 
 hypertrophy, “ sterosis, . 
“ malformat’ninfantile, Arterio sclerosis, . 

Endocarditis, Angina pectoris, 

Pericarditis, . Aortic aneurism, . 

Myo carditis, Purpura hemorrhagica, 

Senile gangrene, . 

Total. ., . . 

RESPIRATORY DISEASES. 

Pulmonary congestion, Influenza, fi

“ gangrene, Asthma,, 

“ oedema, Croup, ., 

Pneumonia, croupous, Pleurisy, i

“ eatarrhal, Emphysema, 

ws broncho, Oedeima of glottis, 
Bronchitis, . Laryngismus stridulus, 

“ capillary, Whooping cough, . 

Haemoptysis, Z 

Total, ,,. 

a

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
GENERATIVE DISEASES.

Puerperal septicemia, Placenta prevenia, 
Labor protracted. Pregnancy, intractable
Post partum hemorrhage, vomiting,, 

Total, ., 

 VIOLENT CAUSES.

Opium poison, . Internal hemorrhage, 
Sewer gas poison, Asphyxiation during birth, 
Lead poison, . Strangulation accidental, 
Ptomaine poison, . Surgical shock, . 
Insulation, . Suicide by strangulation, 
Fracture of skull, . Suicide by drowning, 
Internal injury, . Suicide by paris green, 
Dislocation of vertebra, Suicide by hanging, 
Burns, ., Suicide by shooting mania, 
Scalded by steam, . Accidental drowning, 

Total, . . 

UNCLASSIFIED.

Premature birth, Senile asthenia, 
Congenital causes, . Atelectasis, ., 
Infantile asthenia, . LT 

Total, . . ., . 

Total deaths from all causes, .
TABLE G.
Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city and 
the various institutions.
Ward One,.,, . 
 Ward Two, .,,,. 

Ward Three, ., 
Ward Four, ., .,, 
Ward Five, .,,, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Ward Six, . . ot, 
Ward Seven, . ., . 
Brightside, oo. 
House of Providence Hospital, . 
City Hospital, . .Lo 
Almshouse,. . . 
Harkins Home, . . 
Mount St. Vincent, , 
Total, . . . . 
Non residents, . . 

TABLE H.

Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during the

year .
Holyoke, Scotland, 
Massachusetts,. Russia, to. 
Other States, . . Poland,. 
 Austria, . 
Total United States, France, . D
Ireland, . Belgium, ., 
Canada, . . Norway,. 
Germany,, Armenia, ., 
England,, New Brunswick, 
Unknown, . 
Total, . . 
TABLE K. 

Showing the place of interment of those dying in the city
and those brought here for burial during Still births included.

Calvary,. Brightside,, 

Elmwood, West Holyoke, . 

Forestdale, . South Hadley Falls, 

St. Jerome, Out of town otherwise, 
Or CS

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Local burials, .,,. 
Brought to Holyoke for burial, 
Sent from Holyoke for burial,, . 
Total number burial permits issued, 
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.

The city has been fortunate during the past twelve months,
in that it has not been visited by any epidemic of contagious
nature. During the last two or three months of the year the
number of cases of diphtheria was somewhat increased, but at
no time have we been threatened by an epidemic.

The following tables show the comparative number of cases
and also the number,of deaths from the various contagious dis eases during the past five years, and are interesting as showing
the steady decrease both in the number of cases and the deaths
from the same, during that period.

TABLES
The numberof cases are as follows
Scarlet Typhoid Memb. Small

Diphtheria, Fever. Measles, Fever, Croup. Pox. Total.

In review of the table of contagious diseases by wards we
find that in Wards Three, Four and Five have occurred the
largest number of these diseases.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
 DIPHTHERIA.

 There has been reported during the year cases of
diphtheria with deaths, death rate of per cent as compared with cases with deaths, death rate of reported
during The disease has been prevalent throughout the
year and also throughout the city, Wards Four and Five having
the largest number of cases.

MEASLES.

Thirty two cases of measles have been reported during the
year, occurring mostly during the summer months, with no
deaths. The disease was present throughout the city but was
more prevalent in Ward Four.

SCARLET FEVER.

Scarlet fever has been evident throughout the year, especially from Dmber to July. Twenty five cases have been reported with three deaths, death rate of per cent. Ward
Three has had large portion of the cases of this disease.

TYPHOID FEVER.

There has been reported during the year twenty eight cases
of typhoid fever, with six deaths, death rate of per cent.
Over half of them have been traced to points of contagion outside of the city. The disease has not been limited to the resi‘dents of any ward, although Ward Two presents the greatest
number.

 SMALL POX.

The city has been free from this disease during the year.
A number of reported suspicious cases have been investigated by
the Board but in no instance has the disease been found.

There has been reported to the Board in all cases of
disease of contagious nature during the year, with deaths,
a death rate of per cent.

The appended tables give the detail of these cases.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL.
The Board would once again call attention to the imperative
 need of hospital for the care of diseases of contagious nature,
especially diphtheria and scarlet fever. The value of such insti 
tutions is being realized more and more each year and many
cities of the state now have such accommodations which greatly
aid in the control of epidemics of such diseases. With our large
tenement districts, it is evident that we should have such building at our command in the city.
PEST HOUSE. 
The present pest house in use by the city is well suited in
most ways and furnishes very satisfactory as well as secluded
place of confinement for persons suffering with small pox. Improvements recommended last year should be made. A sanitary
system should be arranged to remove the sewage from the building and satisfactory rptacle made for the same. A small addition should also be added to include disinfecting room for
those who are obliged to visit the building, and also bath room
for the use of patients. These nssities are indispensable and
should rive immediate attention,
TABLE L.
Skowing the contagious diseases as reported by months.
Searlet Typhoid Memb. Small
. Diphtheria. Measles. Fever. Fever. Croup. Pox. Total.
Dmber, D 
January, 
February, .
March, 
April, . 
May, 
June, 
July, . 
August, 
September, 
October, 
November, 
Total, 
\

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. .
TABLE M.
Showing contagious diseases by wards.
A Warils Total. .
 
Diphtheria, 
Scarlet fever, 
Measles, 
Memb. croup, 
Small pox, eae ae ae ae
Typhoid fever, 
Total, 
TABLE N.
 Showing number of deaths from contagious diseases during
 .
Scarlet Typhoid Memb. Small
Diphtheria. Fever. Measles. Fever. Croup. Pox. Total.
Dmber, 
January, 
February, 
March, 
April, 
May, 
June, 
July, 
August, 
September, J 
October, i
November, 
Total, 
hp, REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

 The following is the financial statement of the Board for the
year ending November .

' Appropriation, . ., $. 
Ripts, . . 
Additional appropriation, 

Total, $. 
 Regular monthly bills, . os, 
Regular pay roll, . 
Milk department bills, . 
Total, $. 
A bill from Dr. M. J. McIntee for attendance upon small.
pox for $. remains unpaid, the opinion of the city solic, itor giving us no authority to pay the bill.
Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELL, M. D., Chairman,
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D., Secretary,
JEREMIAH J. LINEHAN, Health Officer,
Board of Health.

 REPORT OF THE
HEALTH OFFICER.
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN I hereby submit report of your Health ,
Officer for During the past year the number of minor
nuisances, such as dirty cellars’and tenements, has decreased, in
which work I was greatly aided by the large property owners.

Also Iam happy to report general improvement in all fruit
products sold by peddlers and in the stores in this city.

During this year, under a‘rule of the Board of Aldermen,
which I think very wise one, about one hundred and fifty
peddlers’ applications for licenses were referred to the Board of
Health for investigation and all applications were approved

 except persons having no residence in this city or proper place
to store their goods other than stable, and no peddler is allowed
to use the same vehicle for the sale of food products that is used
for the cartage of rags, junk, ete.

The number of old buildings still continue to decrease, the
number removed during the year being eight. ,

Other duties performed by your officer are sufficiently set
forth in the accompanying tables. Several verbal and minor .
complaints have been attended to which were not of sufficient
importance to be entered upon the records.

NOTICES SERVED AND PRODUCTS DESTROYED. ,
Grapes destroyed baskets, .
Dead animals removed, . tk . 
Decayed melons destroyed, , 
Decayed bananas destroyed bunches, 
Decayed berries destroyed quarts., 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
Decayed meat destroyed pounds, ., 
Swill cans ordered, . . 
Dirty yards ordered cleaned, 
Dirty cellars ordered cleaned, .,. 
Ash chutes ordered cleaned, . . . 
Stables ordered cleaned, . 
Dirty markets ordered cleaned,,. 
Dirty fish carts ordered cleaned, .,, 
Dirty tenements ordered cleaned, . . 
Vacant houses ordered cleaned,., 
Workshops ordered cleaned, . .wo. 
Manure piles ordered removed, 
Rooms fumigated, ,, 
Contagious disease cards posted,, 
Dirty mattresses destroyed, .,. 
Meat, decayed in alley, ordered removed, ., 
Hens in cellar ordered removed, . ., 
Pigeons in cellar and building ordered removed, 
Water in cellar ordered removed, 
Pigs in cellar ordered removed, ., 
Throwing dirty water in street ordered stopped, 
Barns closed, . 
Premises ordered vacated, . . . 
Buildings removed, . ., 
Buildings closed and condemned, vk 
Rags in tenements ordered removed,., 
Rags in cellars ordered removed, 
‘Dirty chicken coops ordered cleaned,, 
Garbage in cellars ordered removed, 
Peddlers’ licenses investigated,,. 
Dried fruit destroyed pounds,. ., 
Manure water in street ordered removed,. 
Dirty milk carts ordered cleaned, 
Night soil in street ordered removed, . 
Legal notices served, . . 
Fish refuse ordered removed, . . . 
Filthy stores ordered cleaned,. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. .

. Cellars damp, ordered repaired, 
House offal on land ordered removed, ., 
. Offensive odors in buildings, Loo. 
Untidy premises, 
Rubbish in cellars ordered removed,,. 
Houses and yards inspected, 
Swill nuisances, .,,, 
Stagnant water nuisance, , 
Minor nuisances abated, ., . 
Vegetables destroyed bushels, . 
The condition of the tenement property throughout the city
is fairly good, and our city as whole will compare favorably

with any city of its size and conditions.

. In conclusion I wish to return thanks to Marshal Wright
and the police department and to the members of the Board for
their courtesy and co operation, which has been of great assistance to me in my work. .

. Respectfully submitted,
J.J. LINEHAN,
Health Officer.

REPORT OF THE 
INSPECTOR OF PLUMBING.
To the Board of Health GENTLEMEN As Inspector of Plumbing I have the honor
of submitting the eleventh annual report for the fiscal year ending November .
The following table will show to some extent the nature of
the work
Water closets put in new buildings, 
Sinks co “c 
Baths , .
Bowls eo oe 
Wash trays “ “ & “ 
Urinals co “ ose 
Traps se sc ., 
Water closets “ “ old ‘e 
Sinks HH “ ., 
Baths nh “ oo, 
Bowls ce “ 
Wash trays “ “ & ‘ . 
Urinals ew sc .
Traps cow cc , 
Number of permits granted, ., 
Water tests made, . .,. 
Inspections of houses for defective plumbing, 
Inspections made of old and new plumbing, 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances, 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

Each case has complied with the requirements of the
Board. During the year an unusual amount of examinations of
imperfect plumbing and nuisances pertaining to same have been
made and large share of the Inspector’s time is taken up with
these complaints. I am pleased to state that the completion of the
Highland and Ingleside sewers will enable the Board to cause the
removal of the cesspools and privy vaults in these localities and
the city will now be practically free from nuisances of this kind.

Two general inspections of barber shops have been made
during the fiscal year and all the shops were found provided
with running hot and cold water and in good sanitary condition.
Eight warnings for minor offenses were sent to owners of shops.

Twelve applications for barns have been granted by the
Board, nine of which have conformed to the requirements of the
law and three have become void.

I would again call attention to the sanitary condition of 
Hillside Hospital. A fumigating and bath room should be
installed for the use of convalescent patients and proper disposal made of the sewage. The continued use of the privy
vault in its present location is to be condemned, and in the

 opinion of the writer there is grave danger of the pollution of
the water of the surrounding country by the present general
sanitary conditions, which are positively dangerous when the

 house is occupied by small pox patients.

A house to house inspection is an urgent nssity and the
work should be commenced immediately.
In conclusion I desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and co operation.
Respectfully submitted,
F, L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.

REPORT OF THE
Board of Plumbing Examiners.
To the Board of Health

GENTLEMEN The report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners for the fiscal year ending November is
hereby respectfully submitted.

Number of applications for Master Plumbers’

examinations, . . 
Number of applications for Journeymen Plumbers’

examinations, ., 

Number of applicants recommended to the Board of .

Health as qualified to rivea Master Plumbers’

license, . we . . 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of

Health as qualified to rive Journeyman

Plumbers’ license, . . . 

The number of applications for examinations has diminished
during the year as the plumbers realize the fact that they must
be thoroughly competent before taking examination. The result
is that the city saves considerable money for examining incompetent men and the genera class of mechanics are improved.

Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELL, M. D.,
JAMES IL. TIGHE, City Engineer,
MARTIN BOWE, Practical Plumber.
Attest F, L. AVERY, Secretary.

REPORT OF THE
BACTERIOLOGIST.
To the Board of Health, Holyoke, Mass. 

GENTLEMEN I herewith hand you my report for the year
ending November 

During the past year there have been referred to me, as
bacteriologist of the Holyoke Board of Health, cultures from
 cases of sore throats, to determine the presence or absence
of diphtheria bacilli. Of these, were sent for purposes of
diagnosis, while were rived for release only. I consider
this very good showing, indicating, as it does, very marked
effort on the part of the physicians to submit culture for
diagnosis in all cases. The number of cases sent for release
only, was the same this year as last, and of this number but
one was found to be positive, which also was the case last year.

A notable increase in the number of cultures sent to the
laboratory for the purpose of reiease of positive cases has been
shown throughout the year in fact, the majority of cases that
proved to be true diphtheria have not been released without a
negative culture.

There is one point connected with the bacteriological
diagnosis of diphtheria that should always be borne in mind, and
this is that one negative culture for diagnosis is not, in many
cases, sufficient to exclude diphtheria. In doubtful cases, two,

. three and even more cultures should be taken to positively determine the presence or absence of diphtheria germs. By doubtful
cases I mean those in which the clinical diagnosis differs from
the laboratory findings, and those cases presenting membrane
upon the pharynx. In this connection the record for this year
shows that there were six cases submitted for diagnosis in which
the first culture was negative, but diphtheria bacilli were found

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. ,
in the second culture, thus showing the need of secondary cultures in doubtful cases. 
Compared with the figures for last year, I have examined 
more cases, and more cultures this year. The following table
shows the monthly record of work.
CASES EXAMINED, .
For Diagnosis. For Release.
Positive
Positive. Negative. after Positive. Negative. Total.
Negative.

 Dmber, 
January, ‘I 
February, 
March, 
April, 
May, 
June, 
July, 
August, 
September, 
October, 
November, 

Total, 

Total cases submitted for examination, 
Total cultures examined from above cases, positive, 
Total cultures examined from above cases, negative, 

Total cultures, . ., . 

Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT C. EMERSON, M. D.,
Bacteriologist. 

Springfield, Mass., Dmber .


