REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
City oF HoLyoke, Dmber .
To His Honor the Mayor, and Gentlemen of the Board of

Aldermen,

GENTLEMEN In compliance with the City Ordinances we
have the honor of presenting the report of the Board of Health of
the City of Holyoke for the year ending November As
required by law the board met for organization the first Monday in
February. Dr. A. B. Wetherell was chosen chairman, Joseph A.
Murray was elected clerk, Richard Shea health officer, and Dr.
Francis X. Patoel secretary. The regular meetings of the board
have been held on the first Wednesday after the first Saturday of
each month. The board found it nssary to hold number of
special meetings to give hearings upon petitions and to transact
other business pertaining to the office.

A number of visits of inspec.ion were made by the whole board.
In addition to these the members of the board individually made
very many inspection visits. The board state that during the past
year the health of the city has been better than last year and contagious diseases fewer than the previous year.

About the month of March the Board of Health was notified
of one case of small pox at No. Summer street. The origin of
this solitary case doubtful.

The collecting of house offal continues to be done by contract.
This contract, as during the previous year, was awarded to Patrick
Shea and M. F. Driscoll, each riving $ per month and each
to furnish bond of $ for the faithful performance of his work.
This work on the whole has been done as satisfactory as the price
paid would allow.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

During the past year the alleys have been kept in as presentable
a condition as possible. This board recommends that the alleys
be paved, especially the alley between Maple and High, Lyman
and Hampden streets, also the alley between High and Johnstreets,
rear of Marble Hall.

The City Council, judging by the size of the appropriation
each year, seems to forget the fact that this city is taking upon itself
new localities each year. The residents of new districts are now
demanding the privileges accorded to residents in more central
localities.

The question of garbage disposal is the most serious question
with which the Board of Health has todeal. Every year it becomes
more perplexing, owing to the fact that dumping grounds are more
scarce and more remote from the business center of the city. During the year this department has been obliged to haul garbage to
places of deposit in the suburbs at an expense far beyond the limits
of economy. The importance of garbage collecting is not generally
realized, but when we consider that about loads of carbage
and loads of ‘ swill’’ have been collected and removed during the past year, some idea of its magnitude can be gained. That

"the city must eventually own garbage disposal plant is evident,
but owing to the financial condition of the city and the numerous
demands for permanent improvements, we do not advise the establishment of such plant at this time. It is imperative, however,
that this board be provided with suitable dumping grounds and we
would suggest that Elmwood Park be devoted to this purpose.

At the present time Springdale is the only available place
where garbage can be deposited all other places have been filled
up or their use has been prohibited. But although Springdale is
available it is not advisable to haul garbage such distance on
account of the expense, and should this board be obliged to haul
to Springdale, unnssarily heavy appropriations must be the result.

Elmwood Park is convenient, centrally located and has capacity
enough to take all the garbage the city will have for twenty years to
come.

 It is possible that there will be opposition to using Elmwood
Park for this purpose, but such opposition will come from those

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

who delight in retaining the natural undulating surface of pleasure
resorts, be the cost what it may. And those who argue that the
beauty of the park will be destroyed cannot substantiate their
claim, for the park when brought somewhere near the elevation of
the surrounding land will be an attraction to the public which we
cannot say for it now. People don’t usually dnd to the bowels
of the earth in search of rest. They prefer to rest where they can
see sunlight. 

Should your honorable board allow us to use Elmwood Park
for dumping garbage, there will be no garbage crematory needed
for twenty years, and this department would be enabled to reduce its
expenses about $ per day, which is the difference in cost of hauling between Elmwood Park and Springdale.

The Board of Health is pleased to state that our health officer,
Mr. Richard Shea, has spared neither time nor energy to place the
alleys in clean and most sanitary condition, and they have never
been in more presentable condition than at the present time.
We would be pleased to have you inspect them.

The Board of Health would again call the attention of your
honorable body to the extremely unsanitary condition of the waterclosets, tramp room and padded cell situated in the basement of
the City Hall, for as yet no action has been taken to remedy this
evil. There are also many cells in this basement that have, like the
padded cell, never seen the light.

This condition of affairs should not be allowed to exist
prisoners should be placed in sanitary quarters. We would not,
however, be doing our duty if we remained silent while matters in
this basement continue to go on in this unsanitary condition.

Great care should be exercised in regard to the contagious
diseases in our schools. Inquiry should be made by the teachers as
to throat troubles and all epidemic diseases. If any be reported
such cases should be prevented from attending school and the
Board of Health immediately notified, and the patient should be
detained and isolated.

It is special nssity that each physician engaged in the
care of contagious diseases should report them at the earliest date
of diagnosis to the clerk of the Board of Health at the City Hall.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 

We have now had four years of the plumbing ordinance and
every citizen is loud in praise of the same. Each sucding year
demonstrates more forcibly the advantages of this office. This
city is particularly fortunate in having so efficient man as Mr.
Joseph A. Murray to conduct this work.

Among the several offices in this city there exists one for the
inspection of milk. To our minds, there is no department in the
city during the months of June, July, August and September,
deserying of more careful attention.

The reason of the greatly increased mortality among infants
during the hot months is chiefly because cow’s milk is apt to be
contaminated with germs of tuberculosis, cholera infantum and
many other diseases that, without much warning, carry these infants
off.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Original appropriation, $. 
Additional appropriation, ., 
Ripts, 
 $. 
EXPENDITURES.
Payroll of men, and team hire, $. 
Gathering house offal, . 
Keeper of Pest House, 
Bills, . 
 $. 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
DISEASES.
The following diseases were reported to the Board of Health
during the year 
 
x ce .

Month. fa z x
Dmber, O O
January, O I O O
February, ‘ Oo I O O Oo
March, O I fe
April, “ O I O fe re
May, “ Oo I O I
June, “ O I O 
July, “ Oo O O O Oo
August, “ O O O O
September, “ I Oo O Oo 
ctober, “ I O 
November, ‘ O O I O O fe

 I r
il

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
DEATHS.

The following are the deaths by months 

Month. Still Births, Total.
Dmber, 
January, 
February, “ 
March, ie 
April, 
May, “ 
June, “ so 

July, 
August, 
September, ‘ I 
October, ‘ 
November, “ 

 YO 
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR Bb. WETHERELL, M. D.,
RICHARD SHEA,
FRANCES PATOEL,
Board of Health.


