REPORT OF
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN The Board of Health respectfully submit
the following report for the year ending November 

 ORGANIZATION.

The Board met February and elected the following officers

A. B. Wetherell, M. D., Chairman.

F. A. Woods, M. D., Secretary.

J. J. Linehan, Health Officer.

H. C. Emerson, M. D., Bacteriologist.

March J. J. Linehan resigned as member of the
Board of Health and Health Officer. April J. Sidney Wright was appointed member of the Board of Ilealth
and May was appointed Health Officer. 

Regular monthly meetings have been held each month
and special meetings as needed during the year.

UNDERTAKERS.

Fourteen licenses have been granted to engage in
this business during the year.

SAUSAGE MANUFACTURE.

Seven licenses have been granted for the manufac ,
ture of sausage and prepared meat.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
BARBER SHOPS. 
There have been several inspections made of the fifty ,
two barber shops in the city. With few exceptions all ,
have been found in satisfactory condition.
ANIMALS INSPECTED.
During the months’ of October and November, general
Inspection of all neat cattle and swine was made as ordered
by the State Statute. Six hundred and eleven cattle 
and one hundred and twenty swine were examined. 
Five cattle were condemned as suffering from tuberculosis. 
During the vear about thirty thousand pounds of beef and
fifty three swine were stamped. Five ecareasses of
beef and sixteen carcasses of calves were eondemned
after slaughtering.
PUBLIC COMFORT STATIONS. .
We respectfully call the attention of vour honorable
Board to the imperative need of pubhe eomfort. stations.
Such stations should be installed in various parts of our
city.
PLAY GROUNDS.
The health of the children and the future welfare of
our fast growing city demands aetion on the part of the
city. government to provide playgrounds while desirable
loeations are available at reasonable prices .
TUBERCULOSIS.
The Board of Tlealth are pleased that this vital subject
has been taken up through the kindly interest of some of
our citizens and we trust great deal of good may be accomplished, not only im relieving those who are siek. but in
spreading such information and suggestions as will in time,
if heeded. make this disease as rare as is small pox. The

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
best informed authorities agree that it is possible to practically stamp it out.

We endorse heartily all that is being done and will be
pleased to aid in disinfecting dwellings or rooms which
have been occupied by persons ill with this disease.

KEEPING OF PIGS.

There has been tendency on the part of few to keep 
pigs on their premises without obtaining permission to do
so. These have at various times been great nuisance to
those living in the immediate neighborhood and complaints
have reached this Board regarding this nuisance. It dees
not seem to be understood that permisson from this Board
must first be obtained before pigs can be kept in the thiekly
settled parts of the city. and under no conditions will such
permission be given where there is any possibility of nuisance to the neighborhood being established.

INSPECTION OF BAKERIES.

The various bakeries in the city have been visited and 
most of them were found to be in anything but sanitary
eondition. Lack of cleanliness was observed in nearly
every case both as regards the rooms and the utensils which
were in use.

Strict orders were given to put these places in proper
sanitary condition and to effect thorough cleaning, which
In most cases has been complied with. Two bakeries were
closed by order of the Board. during the vear.

GARBAGE.

This Board finds that the time has arrived when those
who eollect garbage should be licensed and be made to have
the proper equipment nssary for this kind of work. The
present way of collecting garbage in barrels covered with old
pis of earpeting or sacking or in wagons with loose fit REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
ting covers, is very unsatisfactory in every way and not at
all pleasant for those who meet these vehicles on the street.
With properly constructed wagon this work ean be engaged in without being offensive to any one.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS.

Under authority of Chapter of the Acts of ,
entitled ‘‘An act relative to the appointment of school physicians’’, an appropriation was made by your honorable
Board with the approval of his honor, the Mayor, to begin
this important work. As soon as the appropriation was
available this Board appointed six physicians at salary of
$ per year to perform the duties required by the Statute.

Each physician visits the schools under his care during
the first and third weeks of each month and examines all

ehildren who are referred to him by the prineipal or
teachers.

Bi monthly reports are made to this Board by each physician, of all inspections made.

DISEASES DANGEROUS TO PUBLIC HEALTH.

This Board has adjudged that the diseases known as
small pox, searlet fever, diphtheria, membranous croup.
typhus fever, typhoid fever, chicken pox. pulmonary tuberculosis, cerebro spinal meningitis, measles and cholera are
infectious and contagious and dangerous to the public
health and safety within the meaning of the Statutes.

Physicians are required to report immediately to this
Board every case of either of these diseases, and postal cards
printed and addressed are supplied to them for the purpose.

DIPHTHERIA.

Diphtheria has been very prevalent here for the past

few months and some cases have been very severe. The

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
majority of the cases. however, have yielded to treatment
and it is undoubtedly fact that had all the cases been seen
by physician at the beginning of the disease, there would
not have been as many deaths to report. There is no doubt
but that the tendency on the part of some to pay no attention to commencing sore throat to neglect to call in medical
aid when they should have done so, and go about among the

 people, as is the usual custom, have been sufficient causes
to spread this disease and to continue it indefinitely.
QUARANTINE REGULATIONS.

If the public at large would assist the Board of Health
in enforcing and complying with the rules of quarantine,
good results would follow and any contagious disease, restricted to the loeality in which it is found.

It is almost impossible for any Board to keep close
watch all of the tme on each individual case, and to see that
strict compliance with the rules is observed. If those who
know that the law is not being observed would assist this
Board by coming forward and testifying, prosecutions
would immediately follow and good results thereby be obtained, and undoubtedly the progress of the contagious
diseases would be checked.

 TABLE A.

Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births
and death rates for. the years inleusive.

Deaths Still births Total Death rate

TABLE B.
Showing deaths and still births during year.
Deaths Still births Total
Dmber 
JANUALTY 
February 
Mareh cc Sl 
 ob rr. 
I Sa 
JUNE Loe ce § BH 
JULY ec ce 
AUQUSt Lo. LOI 
September 
October 
November ec Q 
Total co ce eeLODZ 
TABLE C.
Showing sex of deaths and still births during .

REPURT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
Deaths Still births
Males Female Males Females Total
Dmber ' 
January 
February 
March 
April wo OD 
Mav woe OO 
JUNC Loc es AS 
JUV Lee AO 
August dD 
September 
October 
November S 
Total O 
TABLE D.
Showing deaths by sex and age.
Males Females Tota
Under year 
From to ot
From to wees 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to 
. From to 
From to 
From to 
Over Lo 
Total OFT D 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE E.
Showing the number of deaths oceurring at the various
ages, during each month.
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Total
Under tr yr £ 
From ito § § 
From to § 
From to I row. D gg 
From to § Io CU C I 
From Stolo ww. lUdflUC Zt i“ iki B 
From loto rs bo Oa ae 
From ig to § 
From to Ft § 
From oto 
From to § Q 
From to § § FJ § 
From to I
From to § 
Over § 
Total. 
TABLE F.
Showing the number of deaths from each of the following causes, occurring in the city during the year .
GENERAL.
Diphtheria Tuber. of intestines 
Scarlet fever Tuber. meningitis 
Measles Tuber. of peritonium 
Typhoid fever Cancer of rectum 
Cerebro sp. meningitis “ “uterus 
Membranous croup ““ ““ liver 
Septicaemia “ breast 
Parotitis “ ‘“ stomach 
Rheumatism “ ‘ prostate 
Pernicious anaemia ‘ ‘omentum 
Syphilis “mouth 
Erysipelas oesophagus 
Rachitis Sarcoma of face 
Tuberculosis pulmonary Pemphigus veg. 
Tuber. laryngitis Total cc cc tee teetwee ewe 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 

NERVOUS DISEASES.
Alcoholism Paresis 
Meningitis Myelitis 
Septic meningitis Cerebral embolism 
Apoplexy Cerebral congestion 
Infantile convulsions Spina bifida 
Hemiplegia Locomotor ataxia 
Paralysis N. S Hdrocephalus 
Infantile paralysis Graves's disease 
Dementia Multiple sclerosis of cord 
Delirium tremens Ataxic paraplegia 
Epilepsy Paral. Pneumo Gas. Nerve 
Total ee we ew ee 

URINARY DISEASES.
Acute nephritis Cystitis 
Chr. Parenchymatous Neph £ Abscess of kidney 
Chr. interstitial Neph Diabetes 
Uraemia Pyeo nephritis 
Total eeee et te eee§ 

DIGESTIVE DISEASES.
Marasmus £, IIntestinal obstruction 
Mal nutrition £Peritonitis 
Acute indigestion Appendicitis 
Gastritis acute Cirrhosis of liver 
Gastro enterftis $Amyvloid degen. of liver. 
Enteritis Yellow atrophy of liver 
Entero colitis Icterus neonatorum 
Ileo colitis Jaundice 
 Strangulated hernia 
Cholera infantum Choleocystitis 
Gastric ulcer Hepatitis 
Dysentery 
Total wo wee te QIG

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
CIRCULATORY DISEASES.
Heart disease, not stated £xPericarditis 
Fatty degen. of heart Cardiac embolism 
Valvular disease of heart Cardiac paralysis 
Dilation of heart Addison’s disease 
Mitral regurgitation Myo carditis 
Mitral insufficiency Angina pectoris 
Aortic stenosis Septic phlebitis 
Aortic regurgitation Artero sclerosis 
Endocariditis Gangrene of foot 
Chronic endocarditis Rupture foramen ovale 
Septic endocarditis Haemophilia 
Ulcerative endocarditis Leucocythemia 
Total ce we we we ew we we te weeee OS
RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Pulmonary abscess Bronchitis capillary 
Pulmonary congestion Bronchiectasis 
Pulmonary oedema Oedema of glottis 
Pulmonary embolism Imfluenza 
Pulmonary haemorrhage Acute laryngitis 
Pneumonia croups ,. Whooping cough 
Pneumonia broncho £Pleurisy 
Bronchitis acute Hydro thorax 
Bronchitis chronic Croup e. 
Total weee Zl
GENERATIVE DISEASES. .
Complicated labor Uterine cyst 
Puerperal septicaemia Ovarian cyst 
Abortion Extra uterine pregnancy. 
Salpingitis Placenta previa 
Total ec ee tetee eve 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
VIOLENT CAUSES.
Shock, surgical Abdominal haemorrhage 
Suicide by poison Fracture of skull 
Suicide by shooting Fracture of neck 
Suicide by drowning Fracture of spine 
Suicide by cutting throat Fracture of femur 
Burns Accidental drowning 
Suffocation, accidental Crushed by train 
Homicide £Accid. strychnine poison'g 
Asphyxiation by illum gas Accid. morphine poison'g 
 oe rc 
UNCLASSIFIED.
Premature birth £xInfantile asthenia 
Congenital causes Senile asthenia 
Total cc cc cewe te ew ew ew es. 
Total deaths from all causes 
TABLE G. 
Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city
and the various institutions.
Ward oo. ecce eeees 
Ward Lo cc cc cc e ce 
Ward oi cc ce 
Ward oo. ce ce ec ee § 
Ward io. ec cetee eens 
Ward c nee 
Ward FT wi. tee eens 
 
City Hospital eens 
House of Providence Hospital 
Harkins Home ce 
Almshouse cc ec re nes 
‘ 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Brightside Institution 
Mt. St. Vineent Institution 
 
Totaleeee 
Non residents cc 
TABLE H.

Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during

the vear 
Holyoke Scotland 
Massachusetts Gre 
Other States Poland 
 Austria 
. Total, United States £Italy 
Ireland New Brunswick 
Germany Switzerland 
England Sweden 
Canada Wales 
Russia . Unknown 
Total cc te ew etwee wwe ee 
TABLE K.

Showing the interment of those dying in the city and
those brought here for burial during Still births
included,
Calvary Brightside 
Elmwood West Holyoke 
Forestdale South Hadley Falls 
St. Jerome Out of town otherwise 
Local burials ee 
Brought to Holyoke for burial 
Sent from Holyoke for burial 

. Total number of bnrial permits issued 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
TABLE L.
Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months.
Memb. Scar. Typh. Cerebro Small
. Diphteria. Croup Measles Fever Fever Sp. Meng. Pox Total
Dec. 
Jan. 
Feb. ' 
Mar. 
April 
May lf 
June 
July 
Aug. 
Sept. 
Oct. 
Nov. 
Total dd $J 
TABLE M.

Showing contagious diseases by wards.

 § Total 
Diphtheria XT 
Memb. eroup 
Measles 
Searlet fever 
Typhoid fever 
Cer. sp. meng. 

Total 
TABLE N.
Presenting the deaths from contagious diseases during
 .

 REPORT OF BUARD OF HEALTH
Memb. Scarlet Typh. Cerebro Small

Diphtheria Croup Measles Fever Fever Sp. Meng. Pox Total
Dmber 
January 
February os
Mareh 
April 
May 
June 
, July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
Total 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

The following is the financial statement of the Board of
IJealth for the vear ending November .
APPPOpPiatlON Lo $. 
Additional appropriation 
Ripts cc ences 
Balance on hand, 

Total co.cc cc cc ee ences $. 
Salaries co.cc cc cceee 
Regular monthly bills 
Milk department 

Total coc. $ 

Respectfully submitted,
A .B. WETHERELL. M. D.
FRANK A. WOODS. M.D.
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT.
Board of Health.




Report of the Health Officer.
To the Board of Health.
GENTLEMEN I submit herewith my report from the ,
time of my appointment, April The past year has
been no especial exception to former vears in the usual rout 
ine of labor and care devolving upon the Health Depart men. The increasing growth of the city must and does add
to the duties and expense of the Department.
The following is summary of the inspections made,
and those in answer to complaints, all of which have rived the needed attention during the year of .
Number of complaints investigated 
Number of tenements inspected 
Number of tenements ordered cleaned 
Number of cellars inspected 
Number of cellars ordered cleaned 
Number of vards inspected 
Number of vards ordered cleaned ov
Number of ash chutes ordered cleaned 
Number of stables ordered cleaned 
Number of markets ordered cleaned 
Number of fish carts ordered cleaned 
Number of cesspools ordered cleaned 
Number of privy vaults ordered cleaned 
Number of cellars. hens ordered removed from 
Number of cellars, pigeons ordered removed from. 
Number of cellars. pigs ordered removed from 
Number of cellars, water ordered cleaned from 
Number of swill cans ordered cleaned 
Number of premises ordered vacated A
Number of mattresses destroved 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Number of bakeries inspected 
Number of bakeries ordered cleaned 

 Number of barber shops inspected ot
Number of barber shops ordered cleaned .
Number of slaughter houses inspected 
Number of slaughter houses ordered cleaned 
Number of notices served. . 

‘ Number of peddlers’ places investigated 
Number of dead animals removed

DOGS eens 

OF 

THorses nes 

FRUIT.

Very Ittle fruit has come under my observation that was
not saleable. The following was condemned and destroyed

Two erates strawberries.

One crate oranges.

Two crates lemons.

Two barrels apples.

Two bushels pears.

Two bushels tomatoes.

Five bunehes bananas.

MEAT.

Inspections have frequently been made at the various
Wholesale and retail shops, and the conditions have been
fairly satisfactory. During the vear seven veals and two
hogs were condemned as being unfit for food. I would recommend that an ispector be appointed to devote his whole
time to this branch of the work.

CONTAGIOUS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES.

This branch of the work of this Department has required and been given good and careful attention. This

é

REPORT OF BOARD UF HEALTH 
work is of such nature that it has required and taken the
entire time of an inspector to attend to and care for each
ease reported, including placarding and obtaining history
of each case, together with the removal of the notification
cards, the cleaning and fumigating of premises after the
recovery or death of the patients.

Number of houses fumigated 

Number of rooms fumigated . 

Number of school rooms fumigated 

Number of cards posted . 
ICE CREAM.

During the year visits were made to places where
ice cream was made and sold. The places where the ice
cream was made for the street vendors were not, in my
opinion, clean, and no precautions were taken in regard to
sanitary conditions. These goods are mostly sold to children. I would suggest that all street vendors of ice cream
be licensed, as by this means it would be possible to control
the conditions under which the goods are made and handled.
The other places visited, with these exceptions, were mostly
in good condition and the minor suggestions made were
promptly complied with.

sO Respectfully submitted,
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
Health Officer

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing.
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN As Inspector of Plumbing, I have the
honor of submitting the fourteenth annual report for the
fiscal year ending November .

The following table will show to some extent the amount and nature of the work

Water closets put in new buildings 
Sinks put in new buildings 
Baths put in new buildings 
Bowls put in new buildings 
Wash trays put in new buildings 
Urinals put in new buildings. 
Traps put in new buildings 
Water closets put in old buildings. 
Sinks put in old buildings 
Baths put in old buildings 
Bowls put mi old buildings 
Wash trays put in old buildings. 
Urinals put in old buildings. 
TTaps oc teeneen etna 
Number of permits evranted . 
Water tests made ec ees $ 
Inspection of old and new plumbing 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances 

All cases have comphed with the requirements of the
Board.

The decrease ino the amount of new work during the
year has enabled vour inspector to complete the Departinent

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
work left over from last year. This fact may be appreciated, as hundreds of inspections were made the last twelve
months for plans filed the prevous fiscal year. 

An unusual number of calls for imperfect plumbing and
nuisances pertaining to same have been made, and as nuisances have heen abated by verbal notice, no records have
been made. This branch of the Department work seems to
meet with great approval from the general public and the
results are most satisfactory.

The sanitary condition of the men’s and women’s lockup as regards plumbing and ventilation should rive the
attention of the proper authorities, and the brick sewers in
the basement of the city hall should be removed and proper

 plumbing installed.

As the Revised Laws of the State of Massachusetts 
state that No person, firm or corporation shall engage im
or work at the business ot plumbing, either as master or
employing plumber or as Journeyman plumber, unless he
or it has rived heense or certifieate therefor in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter,’’ it would seem
consistent with said law for the Board to pass rules to the
effect that no person, firm or corporation should advertise
as plumber either by having phunber’s sign at place
of business or otherwse, until said person, firm or corporation have complied with the requirements of the law. In
the opimion of the writer, this would have tenglency to
remedy existing conditions and simphfy the methods of detecton and supervision of unlicensed persons doing plumbing, ,

It would seem advisable that plans for all sewers from
the building line to house should be filed at the office of the
Board of Health and permits granted before work is commenced. These sewers should be laid by plhunbers or .
censed drain lavers, and in all cases be inspected before being filled in. The need of this is imperative and immediate
action should be taken. The amending of that section im

 REPORT OF BOARD OF MEALTH
the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Health is, therefore, presented for consideration.

 During the year it has at times been impossible or ex
tremely difficult for your Inspector to give the nssary
time to the office during the hour from to P. M. I find
that many people desiring the services of this Department
request that call be made at this hour so they may be there
in person, thereby riving more intelligent and comprehensive report of existing conditions. During busy times
the value of the hour may be appreciated on new as well as
old work. It would. therefore, seem advisable to make the
official office hours of the Inspector from to A. M. only.
This has been found nssary in most cities of our size and
is general throughout the state.

The recommendatons of former years regarding house
to house inspecton and the sanitary conditions of Hillside
Hospital are again presented for consideration.

In conelusion I desire to thank the members of the
Board for their courtesy and co operation.

Respectfully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
. Inspector of Plumbing.

Report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners.
To the Board of Health. .

GENTLEMEN The report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners for the fiscal year ending November is
hereby respectfully submitted 
Number of applications for master plumbers’ examNATIONS Leee teens 
Number of applications for journeyman plumbers’ exAMNNATIONS 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of

Health as qualified to rive journeyman

Plumber’s license eens 
Number of appheants recommended to the Board of

, Health as qualified to rive an employing plumber’s Heense eens Number of apphieants recommended to the Board of

Health as qualified to rive master plumber’s

HONS Loo ce eens 

Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELL, M. D.
JAMES L. TIGHE, City Engineer.
MARTIN F. BOWE, Practical Plumber.
Attest Secretary.

Report of the Inspector of Milk,
Vinegar and Petroleum.

To the Honorable, the Mayor, and Board of Aldermen.

GENTLEMEN I have the honor to submit the following
report as Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum for the
City of Holyoke for the vear ending November .

MILK.

Total number of leenses granted 
Total number granted to peddlers 
Number granted to stores and stands 
Number granted for sale of oleomargarine 
I have paid into the city treasury as fees rived $ 
Money rived for distilled water $ 
Number of quarts of sweet milk sold in the city

Cally IS .e ee ete eens 
Number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily is. 
Number of quarts of cream sold daily is 

Making the total number of quarts of sweet milk .
of skimmed milk .and of eream , sold in
the past vear. which at the retail value of milk and cream
as sold in this city amounts to $.
Number of milk samples tested 
Number of butter samples tested. 
Number of vinegar samples tested 
Number of kerosene oil samples tested 
Number of warnings sent. milk 
Stores and stands ispected 

, Farms and dairies inspected 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 

The quality of milk furnished by the peddlers and dealers of this city is very good as is shown by having to send
but warnngs for having milk below the standard from
 samples tested. There were no prosecutions.

The carts and other vehicles, with the exception of some
carrying old and rusty cans, were in good condition in most
cases.

The carrying of swill and other objectionable things has
been stopped. Have found no wooden plugs this year.

The way milk is handled in most of the stores and markets is not as it should be. Milk in cans should be kept in
a place by itself, with the cover on and the measure and
mixer kept perfectly clean.

During November and Dmber, I went with Dr.
Rose of the State Board of Health to all the farms and dairies that supply the milk that is consumed in this city and
about places were visited of these, rived notice
from the State Board of Health to make certain changes and
Improvements in their barns, dairies, care of cows, method
of handling the milk, ete. Those that I have been to since

have for the most part comphed with the recommendations
of the Board. 

The barns and premises in few cases were positively
filthy and unsanitary their continuing so would have shut
them out of this. market for their milk. The barns and
dairies in Holyoke were found in much better condition than
those in other towns. The inspection of the farms and
dairies will be continued and all who do not comply with
the regulations will have to keep their mlk or dispose of it
in some other way. The price of milk has been advanced
from to cents the quart, and with reason, with the price
of all feed much higher in some cases double than it used
to be, the almost impossibility to get good help on the farms
and the enforcement of the laws relating to the sanitary
producing and handling of milk, makes the advance imperative.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
VINEGAR.

I have tested samples of vinegar and only were
below the standard, these were brought in by parties who
wished to find out if they were right to sell. All were much
below the standard, so they were not put on sale.

OLEOMARGARINE.

I have issued peddler’s and store licenses for the
sale of oleomargarine. The high price of butter the past
year has caused great increase in the use of oleomargarine.
Of the samples brought in to me, were oleomargarne
and butter.

The State Dairy Bureau has prosecuted several parties
here for selling oleomargarine for butter in each case a
fine was imposed.

PETROLEUM.
The tank cars of kerosene oil I have tested have all
been above the State standard.

I have had great assistance from the Health Officer aud
the Board of Health, also my Collector of Samples.

I thank the City Marshal and the patrolmen for the
help that they have given me.

Respectfully submitted.
JAMES K. MORRILE,
Inspector of Milk.

Report of Bacteriologist.
To the Board of Health.

GENTLEMEN have the honor to submit the following
report for the vear ending November .

In addition to the bacteriological examinations for the
presence of diphtheria germs in suspected cases of diphtheria, I have during the past vear made examinations of spu 
tum for the presence of the germ of tuberculosis, and also
examinations of samples of blood from persons suspected of
having typhoid fever. For this new work I have furnished
wide mouth glass cork stoppered sputum bottles in suitable
cases, to be used in collecting samples of sputum. The tests of
blood to determine the presence of typhoid fever insuspected
cases are made with drop of blood from the patient. This
drop of blood is diluted at the laboratory and is used im conjunetion with drop of culture of typhoid organisms.
For the purpose of obtaining sample of blood wooden
cases are provided containing clean needle, wire loop
and glass slide upon which the blood is collected. In
addition to notifying the Board of Health every morning
of the results of the various tests. postal cards stating theresults of the tests have been sent to every physician who
had submitted material for examination.

There have been referred to me for examination for
diphtheria cases and total of cultures have been
examined. ,

There are three factors connected with the bacteriological diagnosis of diphtheria that should be emphasized.
namely 

 Laryngeal cases may not show the organisms in
the throat unless the throat is also affected.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
 In cases that are clinically diphtheria but in which
diphtheria germs are not found more than one culture for
diagnosis should be obtained. but the giving of anti toxin
should not be delayed in any suspicious case.
 Care should be exercised in taking the swab to see
that the mouth is free from food and antiseptic applications.
The following tables show the monthly detail work and
the results
TABLE A. .
EXAMINATIONS FOR TYPHOID FEVER.
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. T't'l
Positive O O O O O 
' Negative 
Totals OO OO 
Total examinations for typhoid fever. .
TABLE B.
EXAMINATIONS FOR TUBERCULOSIS.
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. T't'l
Positive O O 
Negative £ 
Totals 
Total examinations for tuberculosis, .
TABLE C., 
Diagnosis Diagnosis Release Release Total Total
Months Positive Negative Positive Negative Cases Cultures
Dmber, 
January, 
February, 
March 
April D 
Mav 
June 
July 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 

August 

September 
October 

November 

 

Total eases examined 

Total cultures examined 

Total number of exminations 

Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT C. EMERSON,
Baeteriologist.
Dmber Springfield, Mass.



