Report of Board of Health.
ge
To his Honor the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen
and the City Council of the City of Holyoke.

GENTLEMEN The following report of the Board of
Health for the year ending November is respectfully submitted 

The regulations previously established for the prompt
removal of filth from public and private premises have ,
been thoroughly enforced, supplemented by such sanitary measures as seemed nssary as wise precaution
against the apprehensions of cholera epidemic which
has agitated the public mind during the past year. This
has nssitated additional expense for extra teams and
men, and the work has been thoroughly and patiently
done under the supervision of the Health Officer, Mr.
John Bateson.

The expenditures of this department have been as fol 
lows 

WORK ON ALLEYWAYS.
January, . $ 
February, ,
March, . 
April, 
May, . 
June, 
July, . 
August, . 

Report of Board of Health. 
September, ,$ 
October, ., 
November, . 
Total, $. 
We have found it nssary to divide the city into two
districts, north and south of Dwight street, and to employ two persons with suitable teams for the removal of
swill and house garbage, at total cost of $ for this
service, which seems in our judgment has been well spent
in securing the removal outside of the city limits of this
common danger to the public health.
Number of notices served during the year
 privy vaults ordered cleaned.
 privy vaults ordered taken out.
 house owners ordered to enter sewer.
 cellars ordered cleaned.
 privy vaults ordered repaired.
 obstructions to alleyways ordered removed.
 manure heaps ordered removed.
 swine ordered removed.
 barn cellars ordered cleaned.
 tenement houses ordered plumbed and renovated.
 tenement houses ordered replumbed throughout.
 goat ordered removed.
 dead goats ordered buried.
 dead swine ordered buried.
The removal of night soil has been under contract
with the same party as last year, Mr. Thomas Bray, and
has been faithfully attended to and the thorough use
of disinfectants has been insisted upon. At an expense
of over $ compulsory vaccination was ordered in
the French district, and rigid inspection enforced of
all new arrivals from Canada, and quarantine measures

 Report of Board of Health.

and certificates of vaccination insisted upon in all such
cases. Weare glad to state that great step forward
has been taken during the past year in providing for the
isolation and care of all cases of infectious diseases.
Under special appropriation generously granted by the
city government, purchase was made of acres of
land at West Holyoke, and immediate steps taken to
erect thereon suitable building. This work is now in ,
progress, the details of which are herewith submitted
from the architect's report

‘‘The new hospital for the treatment of infectious diseases is now in rapid course of construction and well
on tuwards completion. It is sitnated in West Holyoke,
on what was called the ‘‘Doody Farm,” rntly purchased by the Board of Health for this purpose, and also
asa considerable portion for poor farm which is at
present needed and which in the near future will become
an imperative nssity, in handling the city poor, both
as to good management and economy of treatment. The
hospital is located on the westerly side of Jarvis avenue,
which runs from County Road leading from near Craft's
tavern to Easthampton, at the turn westerly near Mr.
Wilson’s house, and thence westerly and southerly past
the location of hospital and Jarvis farm till it merges
into Cherry lane, thereby giving access to the hospital
from north or south ends of the city, as may be most
convenient, and overa thoroughfare that runs at once
direct about two and one half miles from City Hall and
unobtrusive, as the buildings or homes to be passed are
very few, and remote from the road, thus rendering the
transit of patients safe as to fact, and not objectionable
even in sentiment. The building is located some feet
from the highway, westerly, and about feet northerly
from the Jarvis house and one half mile from any
other house, and the roof of same is just visible over
the tops of trees and brush surrounding it. Itis built

Report of Board of Health. 
on Knoll at the foot of the high hills to the immediate
west and north of it and is fifteen feet higher than the
immediate level land or alder swale which hides it from
the road. It is protected from the prevailing winter
winds by the well wooded hills to the near west and
north of it and at the same time it is fully exposed to the
full force and play of the sun from its rise to its setting
and which will, on clear days, for some hours shine in
each room or ward in the building. The building is one
story in hight with an attic fit for general storage or
even use as ward. It consists of main building and
ell. The main building feet running nearly north
and south with the passage way five feet wide running
through center from front doorway at south end, giving
access to the six wards, three on each side, and connecting with cross hall four feet wide which runs east and
west between the main building and ell, and which has
a door with swinging transom at each end for light and
ventilation. The ell is feet, and is two feet lower
than the main building and contains kitchen at east
side where driveway first reaches building, and has a
pantry through which it connects with dining room, the
counterpart of kitchen, on west side of ell. A cooking
range with water back and copper boiler of gallons
capacity, is placed in kitchen, and both kitchen and
dining room have each cast steel sink, with pump
direct to well of best spring water underneath in cellar,
which is cased up with cement pipe inches in diameter to ten feet below cellar bottom in close sharp sand
and gravel, giving profusesupply of water six and onehalf feet deep, and reaching spout of pump with lift of
only feet. The cellar, which extends under the ell
only, is carefully cemented water tight and is graded to
cesspool at bottom of which is trap on five inch iron
frame with brass screws, cover or hand hole which in
case of accidental flow of water in cellar will fully take

 Report of Board of Health.

care of the same. The five inch iron pipe runs from
under sinks to feet outside of buildings below surface
of cellar bottom with good pitch from which point it is
extended by feet of five inch Akron salt glazed pipe
to stone filled soakage well in gravelly soil, and well
surrounded with plenty of shrub and tree growth.
The sink waste pipe is extended up into attic and thence
connected with heated flue near kitchen chimney
which answers no other purpose. ‘The dining room contains clothes closet with drawers, etc., and also has
stairs leading to attic and cellar. A door under steps to
easterly entrance also gives access to the cellar. The
foundation walls up to grade are of native stone laid in
cement, also all inside foundation walls up to floor Joists.
The soil down to gravel first stript off under all of building side and space of two feet extends under allof main
building. The walls of all partitions of wards extending close down two feet below same. The spaces beneath
communicate with the outside air by means of vertical
slits in brickwork, and with each other by openings left
in masonry and also with cellar under ell, in which the
steam boiler sets, through an opening into under central
passage, thereby utilizing any surplus or waste heat from
boiler and pipes which in this way will heat to considerable extent the main floors to hospital wards. All
walls, both outside and inside, are of brick laid in the
best manner, those outside having atwo inch air space
between outer and inner bricks to prevent against dampness and also against changes of temperature. All inside
walls above bottom of floor timbers which do not enter
walls, are of solid brick, and all are to have the best of
plaster applied in three coat work direct to brick work
and perfectly smooth finish. A floorsare to be double and
top floors are to be covered with linoleum non absorbent, and easy to clean laid over two thicknesses of asbestos lining paper both for cushion and for fire proofing to

Report of Board of Health. 
a great degree. All outside doorsare to be tin clad, also
all outside shutters to windows, which are to be hung
with heavy strap hinges to iron brick and fastened on
inside. Cellar windows are to have heavy wire nettings.
The roof is to be covered with slate, is one third pitch,
is hipped, with gablets at ends of each ridge, with windows for both light and summer ventilation in same.
The inside wood finish is to be reduced to its lowest
terms, the least amount for utility to be used only, both
for sanitary and economical reasons and of less danger
from fire. The six wards in the building are alike in size
also as to manner of heating and ventilating, lighting
and accessibility. The three on easterly side of main
hall are intended for female patients, and those on westerly side for male patients. ‘The front or southerly
ones of each are intended for convalescents and perhaps
for rption wards at times of little need, and also one
of the other wards will be temporarily divided off into
sleeping room for nurse or matron and also for use as a
bath room and supply room, but in case of nssity
these can be removed to the spacious and accessible
attic. Each ward is as follows A door with swinging
transom over leads from main hall to ward in the centerof end of same, whichis lighted with two double
glazed windows at the end opposite door placed so high
that the steam pipes can pass beneaththem. Each ward
is feet by feet by feet high, allin clear, and is
intended to accommodate four cots, two on either side
with central passage and passage on each side of same.
The system of heating is by steam, low pressure, close
circulation, the piping to consist of system of circulation pipes around each ward from door right and left
and furnished with steam boiler in cellar under dining
room. The hall is to have radiator to heat the same
degree as wards one square foot of surface to feet of
space, so as to prevent chill when doors are opened.

 

 Report of Board of Health.

The ventilation is effected as follows Each of tne four
corners of each ward is cut across inches by wall of
brick which formsa flue in each corner, which is thoroughly plastered with cement and has register
near the top and bottom, thereby giving control of air
in each ward as may be desired. Each flue at top is
to be nearly covered with galvanized iron cap leading
toa duct of same material, and from each corner of
wards in attic, these pipes will run into one pipe of their
aggregate size, and, these trunk pipes for each ward will
concentrate into ventilator stack of galvanized iron in
which each pipe will remain separate to the top of same,
which is to be surmounted with globe ventilator of suitable size. In this manner the air from each room is
kept entirely separate from the rest, and thus avoiding
any possible trouble which might possibly arise if it
were nssary to thoroughly fumigate or otherwise treat
or isolate any ward at any time, and also the constant
acting of the ventilating system is thus made sure of in
the usual way by levitation of the heated inside air in
winter and also in summer to considerable extent by
the exhaust action constantly taking place even in times
of sluggish action of the air by the ventilator at top of
stack.

With this work completed the duty of guarding from
epidemics of contagious diseases will be in great measure simplified and permanent safeguard established,
which we confidently believe will prove source of pride
and gratification as well as safety to our citizens. In
this belief we again recommend little appropriation for
the carrying on of this department.

EDWARD O’CONNOR, Chairman,
JOHN BATESON, Health Officer,
J. J. OCONNOR, Secretary,

Board of Health.


