To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Holyoke

GENTLEMEN

We have the honor to submit herewith for your consideration the annual report of the Health Department,
including such suggestions and recommendations as are
deemed of interest to the public.

ORGANIZATION.

The Board met February and elected the following officers

A. B. Wetherell, M. D. Chairman

F. A. Woods, M. D., Secretary

J. J. Carroll, M. D., was elected Bacteriologist.

PUBLIC HEALTH.

Great improvement will be noted in Health matters
during the past year and statistics show the general health
of the city to be much better than formerly. We appreciate
the fact that good share of the credit for this satisfactory
condition is due to the good work of other departments and
charitable organizations.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
DIPHTHERIA.

The past year has been one of the lightest for several
years. All cases reported have been quarantined. Antitoxin was furnished free to all who applied through their
family physicians. Culture tubes are supplied and specimens are examined without charge. 

SCARLET FEVER.

There have been few less cases than last year. All
cases were quarantined and fumigated with Formaldehyde
compound. .

WHOOPING COUGH

While there were but few cases reported, the disease
was prevalent throughout the city. It is disease that causes much suffering and was fatal in five cases. Parents
should not be indifferent and allow their children to be
necdlessly exposed, for the old idea that children must contract these diseases sooner or later is erroneous.

TYPHOID FEVER. 

Eighteen cases of Typhoid Fever were reported
during the past year. Most of the cases reported were out
of town patients who were taken to our local Hospitals for
treatment. Investigation eliminated the water and milk
supplies in every case, so that there is no need for public
concern.

TUBERCULOSIS.

Weare only at the beginning of our fight against this disease.

Much remains to be done by the city. Practically everyA

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
thing up to the present time has been accomplished by citizens banded together in organization. By them, the public
has been educated concerning the cause, care and prevention of Tuberculosis and money has been obtained from
citizens of the city and state for the establishment and mainnance of hospitas for tubercular patients.

The educational work is excellent and good results are
being accomplished, but the real work must be in the homes
of the sick. There is where the city must spend money to
obtain lasting results.

ISOLATION HOSPITAL.

The Members of the Health Department desire to express their appreciation of the interest His Honor, the Mayor
and the Board of Aldermen have taken in the purchase of
a site for the contageous disease hospital. This is the first
step toward the erection of the institution and the Board
earnestly recommend that immediate steps be taken for
such an appropriation as will allow the erection of few
buildings at least during the coming year.

Such an institution will be indispensable should an
epidemic of either Diphtheria or Scarlet Fever break out
in our tenement districts and would not only aid the Board
in coping with such an outbreak but would doubtless be the
means of saving the lives of many children who would be
effected by such an epidemic.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS

There is no question that the Medical Inspection of
schools has accomplished vast amount of good during
the short time that it has been in vogue in this city, but there
is plenty of room for improvement. The greater cleanliness of the children, the greater freedom from Pediculosis,
the larger number of operations for Adenoids and enlarged

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
tonsils. eye examinations and growing appreciation of the 
importance of caring for the teeth assures us the results of
Medical Inspection of schools are better year from to year.
BARBER SHOPS.
The barber shops have been thoroughly inspected and
rules and regulations posted in each. Five shops were found
not complying with the rules of the board and upon being
notified, made the required changes.
BAKERIES. 
 All bakeries have been inspected and rules and regu 
lations posted in each. Three were found not complying
with the law and were notified to put their aces in sanitary condition.
UNDERTAKERS.
Twelve licenses have been granted to engage in
this business during the year.
NUISANCES.
Many complaints of nuisances are rived at the office
from citizens and some from the police. All of these rive
prompt attention whether anonymous or not. Quite a
number proved to be unfounded and are due to quarrels
between neighbors or between tenants and landlords. In
most instances, however, real nutsances are found.
INSPECTION OF MEAT AND PROVISIONS.
The greater part of the Inspector's duties is the inspection of provisions and meats and the most important. of
these duties is the inspection of carcasses slaughtered for
human food. It is the duty of the Inspector to inspect
all said carcasses and if in his judgment they are free from

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
disease and fit for human food they are to be branded as
provided for in Section of Chapter Acts of .
All carcasses not so branded shall be deemed unfit for food
and shall not be sold nor offered for sale.

John M. Carlon was appointed Inspector of Meat and
Provisions, July and since that time has performed
the following duties

Total inspections, stores and markets, 
‘ number of days at Slaughter house 
‘ cattle slaughtered , " Al
“veal “, , 
‘Swine “, 
sheep “,,I

The following has been condemmed as unfit for human

food
Beef .,, lbs.
Veal,,,. “
Pork ., , 
Poultry . “
Mutton ., "
Sausage. . "
Peaches . . baskets
Bananas doz.
Pears, ,, bu.
Onions .,,, "
Melons ,,, 
MILK SUPPLY. ,
In May and June we rived from the State Board of
Health list of farms in and around Holyoke which had been
inspected by an agent of said State Board of Health and in
which conditions were found which were not in keeping with

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
the production of pure nor clean milk. Said milk to be sold
in Holyoke. Letters were immediately sent by us to each of
the named owners, allowing them one month to improve the
sanitary conditions. At the expiration of the time, the
Health Officer and Milk Inspector personally visited every
one of the farms named and with few exceptions found
that conditions were much improved and that the changes
asked for had been put into effect. We are about to compile
a set of rules and regulations under which milk to be sold
in Holyoke shall be collected, stored, transported and delivered. These regulations when published will have the
force of law and then we shall be in position to enforce any
orders which we may deem nssary, along these lines.
TABLE A.
Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births
and death rates for the years to inclusive. 
Deaths Still births Total Death rate

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. ,
TABLE B.
Showing deaths and still births during year.
, Still 
Deaths births Total
Dmber .,, 
January 
February. . 
March " 
April 
May II 
June .,, 
July .
August 
September. 
October to,, 
November., 
Total. , 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE C.,
Showing sex of deaths and still births during .
Males Females Males Females Total
Deaths Still births
Dmber. I 
January 
February . SI I go
March I 
April 
May 
June I 
July 
August. g
September. go
October. I 
Nevember. 
Total § 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE D.
Showing deaths by sex and age.

Males Females Total

Under I year, . 
From I to , 
From to , 
From to ,, 
From to 
From to 
From to ., 
From to 
From to 
From to 
From to ,SI g
From to , 
From to ., 
From to ., 
Over 
Total 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE E.

Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Total
Under I vr. 
From ito 
From to
From to 
From to

From to 
From to 
From to
From to 
From to 
From to § QI
From to 
From to 
From to § § 
Over 
Total 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE F.
Showing the number of deaths from each of the following
causes, occurring in the city during the year Igog
GENERAL.
Sarcomaof Face. . I Osteo Sarcoma of Femur I
a “ Liver . Erysipelas . . §
Premature Birth. . Rheumatism. . 
Senility . . Congenital Syphilis. 
Diphtheria . . Pyaemia. . . I
Typhoid Fever . Acute Miliary T.B 
Cancer of Breast . § Cellulitisof Neck I
“ “Lip . Rachitis . .
‘ “ Omentum I Toxaemia . I
Measles . . Arthritis Deformans I
Septicaemia . . Scarlet Fever. . 
SarcomaofOmentum Heat Prostration . 
Osteo Sarcoma of Hip Sunstroke . . I
Joint 
Total. ee TTS
URINARY DISEASES.
Bright’s Disease . Nephritis, Chronic . 
Uraemia . Nephritis, Chronic, InterDiabetes Mellitus. stitial . TI
Cystitis Nephritis, Chronic, ParNephritis. . . enchyvmatous . 
“Acute 
Total FS

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
NERVOUS DISEASES.

Congestion of Brain. Infantile Convulsions 

Apoplexy. . . Hemiplegia . . 

Meningitis . . Delirium Tremens . 
“ CerebroSp. Epilepsy . . 
“ Chronic I Cerebral Embolism . 
“ Acute. . § Gen. Paralysis . .
 Traumatic Myelitis . . I
“ Cerebral . I ‘‘ Transverse. I
“ Tubercular Abscess of Brain . I
“ Septic. . Tabes Dorsalis . 

Hemorrhage, Subdural Paresis . 

Hemorrhage, Cerebral Cerebritis . . I

Hemorrhage, Cerebral, 

Traumatic. . I
Total ek OF
GENERATIVE DISEASES.

Cancer, Uterus . § Miscarriage . . I
“Pelvic . Eclampsia . . I
“Cervix Uteri Labor. . . 

Fibroid of Uterus. T. B. Salpingitis and

Placenta Previa I Oophoritis. . I

Puerperal Septicaemia 
Total. ee

DIGESTIVE DISEASES.

Marasmus . . Cancer, Stomach . 

Peritonitis . . “Liver we

Intestinal Obstruction “Rectum 

Malnutrition. I “Tongue I

Cirrhosisof Liver ‘Esophagus I

Gastro Entritis “Throat I

Acute Indigestion “Gall, Bladder. s

‘REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Cancer, Pyloris . Intersusception . I
 “Pancreas . I Appendicitis. . 
Abscess of Liver . I Appendicitis, Gangrenosa 
Ileo Colitis . . Appendicitis, Act., PerT.B.Peritonitis. . forating . . SI
Cholera Infantum . Atroph. Cirrhosis, Liver I
Gastritis . . I Mult, Cysts of Pancreas I
“Acute. . Chron. Gastroentertis 
Enteritis . . Dysentery . . 
Act. Parenchymatous Ptomaine Poisoning. I
Hepatitis . . I Gastric Dilitation . I
Chron. Diarrhoea . I Appendicitis,Chron. I
Jaundice . . I ODiarrhoea' . §
Strang. Umbillical Her Tumor of Liver . I
nia Congital . I Enterocolitis. . 
Intestinal T.B. . & UlcerofDuodenum. 
Total 
CIRCULATORY DISEASES.
Mitral Stenosis . Endocarditis, Malig. 
“Regurgitation LymphaticLeukeemia 
Aortic Stenosis . Lymphatic Leukeemia,
“Regurgitation Chronic . . 
Endocarditis . § Angina Pectoris. . 
. Chronic. Congenital Heart Dis. 
Myocarditis . . § Afteritis . 
“ Chronic Cardiac Hypertrophy I
Anaemia . . I Fatty Degen.of Heart 
‘“ Pernicious . Cardiac Insufficiency I
Arterio Sclerosis. . “ Pilitation . 
Valvular Disease . ‘“ Asthenia .
Internal Hemorrhage Ruptureof Aorta . 
Heart Disease, N.S. Total. ee


 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Pneumonia . . CongestionofLungs 
Pul. T. B. . . Pul.Odema 
Bronchitis . . Cancer of Pleura . I
. Acute. . LaryngismusStridulus I
Broncho Pneumonia Empyema I
Whooping Cough . Asphyxia. . 
Accidental Asphyxia Pneumonia, Traumatic 
Membranous Croup. Pleuro Pneumonia .
Pleurisy . . Atelectasis . I
Influenza. . . 
Total. we I
VIOLENT CAUSES.
Fracture of Neck acc’d, Suicide, Hemorrhage cut
f Skull . throat,. . . JI
“ “Femur Suicide, Carbolic Acid 
“ “Spine I ‘Creosote . I
Burns acc’d. . ‘Drowning . 
Suicide, Hanging . Mult.Injuriesautoacc’d 
Potass. Cyanide I Shock, Traumatic I
Chloroform Drowning, Accidental 
Mult. Fractures of Skull 
Total. we 
UNCLASSIFIED.
Exposure. . . I Progressive Muscular
Asphyxia Neonotorum I Atrophy . . I
Senile Asthenia . gs Tubercular Laryngitis. 
Umbill. Hemorrhage I Ulceration Vocal Cords. 
Surgical Shock Tubercular Abscess of
Shock. . . Femur. . . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Starvation . . I ODebility . . UY
Otitis Media. . ‘General 
T.B.AbscessofSpine Alcoholism . . 
Cancer of Face . Acephalia re 
Graves Disease . Retropharyngeal Abscess 
Inanition. . . 
Total. wee 
TABLE G.
Showing the deaths occuring in each ward in the city
and the various institutions
Ward .,, . 
Ward ., 
Ward , ., . 
Ward , .,, 
Ward . .,, 
Ward .,. 
Ward ., 
Total. .,, 
Holyoke City Hospital., 
House of Providence Hospital,, 
Almshouse. , 
Brightside Institution , 
Mt. St. Vincent Institution ., 
Beaven Kelley Home ,,I
Harkins Home, 
Total . 
, Total deaths occuring ‘n the wards and institutions ggo
Non residents, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE H.
Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during
the year .
Holyoke., 
. Massachusetts,,, 
Other States . . 
Total United States,, 
Ireland . . ., 
Germany,,, 
England ., , 
Canada,.,, 
Russia,. 
Turkey. .,I
Prussia. . ., I
France .I
Scotland , 
Poland ., . 
Austria ,, 
Italy,,, . 
New Brunswick. ., I
Switzerland, I
Unknown . . 
Total ., 


REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
TABLE K.
Showing the interment of those dying in the city and
those brought here for burial during Still births
included.
Calvary .,, . 
Elmwood , . ,
Forestdale . . 
St. Jerome., . 
Brightside.,, . I 
West Holyoke ,, . 
South Hadley Falls . 
Out of town otherwise . . 
Local Burials,. 
Brought to Holyoke for Burial . . 
Sent from Holyoke for Burial. . 
Total number of burial permits issued 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
TABLE L.
Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months.
Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. July Aug.Sept.Oct. Nov. Total
Diphtheria § 
Scarlet Fever 
Measles 
Whooping Cough I 
Chicken Pox I I I I i
Typhoid Fever I I 
Memb. Croup I 
Tuberculosis 
Cerebo sp. Men I I I 
Total 
TABLE M.
Showing contagious diseases by wards

I Totals
Diphtheria 
Scarlet Fever I If j&§ If 
Measles O I 
Whooping Cough I I 
Chicken Pox I 
Typohid Fever 
Memb Croup IF 
Tuberculosis 
Cerebro sp. Men. I 
Total & I I SI 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
 FINANCIAL STATEMENT
The following is the financial statement of the Board of
Health for the year ending November .
Appropriation.,$. 
Ripts”. 
Additional appropriation 
 $. 
Salaries. $. 
Regular monthly bills. 
Milk Department bills, 
 $. 
Respectfully submitted,
 A. BL. WETHERELL, M. D.
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D.
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
Board of Health.

Report of the Health Officer.

To the Board of Health of the City of Holyoke 

Gentlemen I submit herewith my report for the year
ending November 
Number of complaints investigated, 
Number of tenements inspected, 
Number of tenements ordered cleaned, 
Number of cellars inspected 
Number of cellars ordered cleaned. 
Number of yards inspected . 
Number of yards ordered cleaned ., 
Number of ash chutes ordered cleaned, 
Number of stables inspected .,. 
Number of stables ordered cleaned II
Number of cesspools ordered cleaned, 
Number of privy vaults ordered cleaned . 
Number of cellars hens and pigeons ordered removed

from.,, . 
Number of cellars pigs ordered removed from . 
Number of swill cans ordered cleaned 
Number of mattresses destroyed. . 
Number of notices sent., . 
Number of dead animals removed . . 
Number of cards posted. . 
Number of rooms fumigated . . Q 
Number of school rooms fumigated . 
Number of inspections, stores and markets 

Respectfully submitted,
J. SIDNEY WRIGHT,
ITealth Officer.

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing.
To the Board of Health 

Gentlemen As Inspector of Plumbing, I have the honor
of submitting the sixteenth annual report for the fiscal year
ending November .

The following table will show to some extent the amount
and nature of the work

Water clostes put in new buildings, 
Sinks put in new buildings, 
Baths put in new buildings, 
Bowls put in new buildings ., 
Wash trays put in new buildings ., 
Urinals put in new buildings. 
Traps put in new buildings Water closets put in old buildings . 
Sinks put in old buildings,, Q 
Baths put in old buildings . 
Bowls put in od buildingsoo, 
Wash trays put in old buildings 
Urinals put in old buildings 
Traps put old buildings Ce QT
Plumbing permits granted,, 
Sewer permits granted. ., 
Sewer inspections ., 
Water tests made ., 
Inspections of.old and new plumbing . 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances. . 
Prosecutions . . . . 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

The healthy and prosperous growth of building during
the past year, marks an era in the business of the Department
and its resources have been taxed to the utmost in giving the
nssary examinations and inspections. The Master Plumbers’ have experienced great difficulty in keeping up with
their work by reason of being unable to procure plumbers,
and many of them have found it nssary to work more
than one Helper with each Journeyman. This has caused
some dissatisfaction on the part of few of the plumbers,
and complaints have reached this office regarding same.
There is also evidence that some proprety owners have traps
wiped in by plumbers and installed in minor repair work by
so called “handy men’. In the opinion of the writer the
principal is wrong and many complaints have been made in
connection with this method by both Master and Journeyman
Plumbers. Your Inspector can find nothing in Chapter ,
Revised Laws, as accepted by the City of Holyoke to regulate
the number of Helpers working with Plumbers, but the law
is emphatic in defining Journeyman Plumber. Section ,
Revised Laws, Chapter ““The word Journeyman as used
in this chapter, shall mean person who himself does any
work in plumbing which is by law, ordinance, by law, rule
rule or regulation subject to inspection.’”’ It would therefore
appear that these are matters that could be settled by the
Master and Journeyman Plumbers, but as there seems to be
some dissatisfaction, the subject is presented for consideration.

The work of the department is, and has been greatly
handicapped by the office hour from One to Two p.m. Practically all of the office work is done between the hours
 tog a. m., and the plumbers would appreciats the value of
the afternoon hour, giving as it does increased service. It
has been found nssary in cities of our size to limit the office
hours to one hour day and at present is nssity in Holyoke.

House bill abolishing the local Boards of Plumbing
Examiners and substituting State Examiners of Plumbers
has been in force since June and in the opinion of


. REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
the writer will give general satisfaction throughout the
Commonwealth.
In conclusion I desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and co operation.
Respectifully submitted,
F. L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.


REPORT OF
Board of Plumbing Examiners.
To the Board of Health

Gentlemen The report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners for the fiscal year ending November S
hereby respectfully submitted

 Number of applications for Master Plumbers’ examina. tions,,. oO
Number of applications for Journeymen Plumbers’ examinations , 
Number of applications recommended to the Board of

Health as qualified to rive Journeyman Plumber’s license ., 
Number of applicants recommended to the Board of

Health as qualified to rive Master Plumber's

license . Oo

Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELL, M. D.
JAMES L. TIGHE, City Engineer.
MARTIN F. BOWE, Practical Plumber.
Attest PF. L. Avery, Secretary. ,

REPORT OF THE

Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum
To the Board of Health

Gentlemen I submit herewith my report for the year
ending November 
Total number of licenses granted 
Total number granted to peddlers. 
Number granted to stores and stands 
Number granted for the sale of oleomargarine 
I have paid to the City Treasurer as fees rived $
Money rived for distilled water 
Number of quarts of sweet milk sold daily ts 
Number of quarts of skimmed mild sold daily is 
Number of quarts of cream sold daily is . 

Making total number of quarts of sweet milk ,of skimmed milk , and of cream , sold in
the past year, which at the retail value of milk and cream as
sold in this city amounts to $.
Number of milk samples tested 
Number of cream samples tested 
Number of butter samples tested 
Number of vinegar samples tested QI
Number of kerosene oil samples tested. 
Number of warnings sent, milk , 
Number of warnings sent, wooden plugs I

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

Your Inspector has sent out sixty two warnings for milk
below the standard. Two cases were prosecuted and fine
of $ was imposed in each case.

Only one peddler was found having wooden plugs on
milk cans, he recived warning and discontinued their use.

In May and June the Inspector accompanied Dr.
Rose of the State Board of Health inspecting the dairies of
the producers that supply milk for this city and found
that in quite number of places the conditions were not what
they should be, and in two or three were positively bad. All
these recieved letters fron the State Board of Health and from
the Board of Health of this City, recommending changes and
improvements to bring them up to proper conditions.

In July and August the Inspector accompanied Health
Officer J. S. Wright, visiting the producers that had rived
letters and found that with three or four exceptions the reccomendations of the Board had been carried out in full or
in part, the conditions being much improved.

Have visited the milk rooms and places where milk is
stored in this city and except in two or three found the conditions satisfactory. Have visited the places licensed to sell
milk in this city and reported conditions as found.

The practice of selling milk from cans in markets and
grocery stores where the cans measure and mixer are 
exposed to flies, dust and ordors is not sanitary and should
be stopped and rule for handling milk in these places adopted ,
Milk in bottles is the ideal way provided it is bottled properly.

A law requiring all dealers in milk to be licensed annually was approved June and all the stores and stands sellIng milk were required to obtain license. There are now two
hundred and twenty five licensed places.

The standard for milk was printed wrong in the report
of last year. To quote the law it is

“Acts of Chapter ”.

“Milk that contains less than per cent milk solids
or less than per cent fat shall not be considered of good
standard quality.”

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
VINEGAR
Of the ninety one samples tested only three were found
 to be below the standard and those were brought in by
producers for test.
OLEOMARGARINE

 There are now forty one licenses for the sale of oleomargarine in the city. Have visited them and found that the
law was observed as far as having the license posted and the
proper marking on the packages.

Three parties have brought in samples to be tested
thinking them to be oleomargarine but in each case the
sample proved to be butter.

PETROLEUM

Forty eight samples of kerosene oil have been’ tested

and found to be above the state standards.
 wish to thank the Health Officer and the Board of
Health for the assistance they have given me,
Respectfully,
JAMES K. MORRILL,
Inspector of Milk.

Report of Bacteriologist.
To the Holyoke Board of Health

Gentlemen I herewith submit my report on the cases
referred to me for laboratory examination during the year
ending November .

This branch of your department is growing rapidly
as the great importance of the laboratory as diagnostic aid
is being recognized by the physicians more and more every
year. The proof of the latter is readily shown by the fact
that out of swabs sent in for diagnosis, were negative
showing that the physician depends largely upon the laboratory to eliminate diphtheria as well as to prove it’s existence.

There were reerred to me during the past year 
swabs, specimens of sputum and blood specimens for
Widal examination making total of examinations, The
fact that not one of the typhoid tests showed positive reaction is to me an interesting feature and tends to show the
result of the excellent condition governing our water and milk
supply, drainage systems, etc. The only regrettable fact is
that we do not have an opportunity to do Widal test upon
every case reported as typhoid and I would suggest that your
board urge upon the physicians the advisability of submitting
a blood specimen from every such case in order that we may
have larger field from which to obtain our data.

Ophthalmia Neonotorum is subject to which the health
authorities throughout the country have of late years been
giving considerable attention and I would recomend that this
be added to our list of laboratory examinations and the phy REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
sicians requested to submit for examination, specimens of
all eye discharges occurring in infants.

Should your board pass upon this I will supply outfits
as soon possible and should we be successful in saving
but one pair of eyes year we should feel amply compensated
for the trouble and expense entailed.

I would again urge upon you the advisability of placing
a box in the outer vestibule of the High Street entrance to
the City Hall where swabs may be left at all times up to
nine o'clock at night. Such an arrangement would be much
more convenient for the physicians and would do away wit
the present more or less complicated system.

Appended you will find detailed report of the work
done during the entire year.

, Respectfully submitted,
J. J. CARROLL, M. D.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
DIPHTHERIA
Diagnosis Release Total Total
Positive Negative Positive Negative Cases Cultures
Dmber I I 
January II O O 
February O I 
March I O 
April O I 
May O I II 
June I O I 
July O I 
August O O 
September 
October I O 
November O O I 
Total 
TUBERCULOSIS
Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Tota
Positive I TF 
Negative £ 
Total 
TYPHOID

Dec, Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Tota
Positive eS Se
Negative I 
Total I I 


