OF THE
 Board of Health
OF THE
City of Holyoke
FOR THE YEAR

 
ARIAT IN

Ky, O.

HoLyoKkeE, Mass.
M. J. DoyLe PRINTING Co.

 .

Sighized by Google

REPORT OF
BOARD OF HEALTH.
To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen

GENTLEMEN In compliance with the Public Statutes,
the Board of Health herewith submit for vour consideration
the twenty fifth amnual report.

The Board met for organization on the first Monday of
February, electing the following offieers Chairman, Dr.
Arthur B. Wetherell secretary, Dr. Frank A. Woods health
officer, Jeremiah J. Linehan.

GENERAL WORK.

In presenting the twenty fifth annual report the Board
is pleased to state that the general publie health and the sanitation of the city is in satisfactory condition. This favorable
state of affairs has been brought about gradually by constant
attention during the past few vears to all nuisances, sources
of filth and causes of infection. There exists today very
general desire on the part of the people of the city to comply
with the rues of the Board and the state laws relating to the
same.

The mortality is low for city with vamed manufacturing

interests and one containing large tenement districts, and
diseases of contawious nature have not been excessive. A
eontamious disease hospital would greatly facilitate the work.

Many of the old and dilapidated buildings about the city
have been removed, thus eliminating foer of contagion and
filth.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH

The passage through our eity of the sewage laden canal
water is constant menace to the general health of our people
and we hope in the near future to see our canals relieved
of this objectionable feature.

BAKERIES.

Reeular inspections of the bakeries and their surroundings have been made at intervals by the entire board. and
such special inspections as have been required, have been made
by the Board’s inspectors. The general condition of these
manufactories of food products is at present very satisfactory.
During the vear three bakeries were closed until the conditions
existing had been improved to comply with the orders of the
Board. Four new bakeries have been established in the eity
during the year, there bemy at present thirty two bakeries
In Operation.

BACTERIOLOGY.

The Board has eontinued the system of bactenolocical
examinations mn all eases of diphtheria or throat trouble of a
suspicions nature with very satisfactory results. Of eultures examined it was found that were negative thus saving
expense, danger and annoyance in quarantining many people.

The Board would request each physician to exereise care

 and promptness in taking swabs for diagnosis and. release.
In all eases when the clinical syinptoms indicate diphtheria
and the swab taken is returned negative, second swab for
diagnosis should be taken on the following day. Two consecutive negative swabs are the smallest number that should be
relied upon as an evidence that danger of contagion passed

Im Cause.

The Board desires, as soon as arrangements can be made,
to furnish an opportunity for the examination of sputa in
all suspected cases of tuberculosis.

Appended is the report of the Bacteriologist.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
UNDERTAKERS. ,

Thirteen licenscs have been granted to engage in this
business during the vear. The undertakers continue to be
prompt in filing the certificates of death, and are careful in
making their returns.

SLAUGHTER HOUSES.

All manufacturers of sausage and prepared meat within
the city have been granted licenses by this Board. Ten licenses
have been granted for the manufacture of sausage, prepared
meat and slaughtering.

, Le

rhe supervision of these places of business has caused an
improvement in the character of the articles furnished to the
public for consumption.

BARBER SHOPS.

The Board ean state that all barber shops are doing work
In accordance to the rules and reeulations and there have
been no complaints. Two general inspections of barber shops
have been made during the vear and the same were found
provided with running hot and cold water and in good sanitary condition. There are at present sixty barber shops doing
business in the city, ten have been closed during the year.

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES.

We are pleased to state that there is no cause for eomplaint with local dealers and the city is practically free from
the sale of decayed fruit and vegetables.

INSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR, AND PETROLEUM.

When the great consumption of milk is taken into consideration the importance of the work of this department cannot
be lightly estimated and the Board is pleased to report that

the duties of the office are performed in most satisfactory



 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
manner. The general quality of milk is up to the standard,
There have been few complaints, and prosecutions have been
made only when absolutely nssary.

The bills of the Milk Department continue to draw heavily
from the finances of this Board as no extra appropriation was
made to meet this expense.

The report of the Milk Inspector is appended.

BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES.

Applications for the erection and oceupaney of buildings
to be used as barns have in all cases rived the consideration
of the Board. The premises have been viewed and the requirements of the Jaw enforced. Fifteen applications have been
rived during the year and permits have been granted in
most eases. Owing to unfavorable conditions, four applicants
for barn licenses were given leave to withdraw. We would
report that the barns in the vity are ina good general condition

at the present time.
BOARD OF PLUMBING EXAMINERS.

The examination and licensing of plumbers as required by
the laws of the Commonwealth, has been performed by the
Board according to the provisions of the act. There have been
no exmninations for master but two for Journeyman plumbers.

The report of the Plumbing Examiners is appended.

DEPARTMENT OF PLUMBING AND SANITARY

INSPECTION.

The iuerease in the work of this department an indication of the general prosperity and rapid erowth of the city.
The unusnal amount of new work with corresponding nerease for alterations and repairs, marks an era in the work
of the department.

The weneral publie appreciate aud take advantage of the

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
benefits of sanitary inspection and large part of the Inspector’s time is taken up with nuisances pertaining to poor or
imperfect plumbing.

The rnt epidemies of contagious and infectious diseases
in various sections of the Commonwealth would indicate that
some attention should be paid to our recommendations of
former years regarding house to house inspection of plumbing and the Board would again recommend that special
appropriation be made and the work commenced early in the
year.

The report of the Inspector of Plumbing is appended.

VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS.

The completion of the Highlands and Ingleside sewers has
enabled the Board to abate the nuisances formerly existing In
these loealities and the city is practically free from vaults
and cesspools, as the use of same have been eondemned whereever sewer privileges have allowed.

SEWERS AND DRAINS.

The reports of the State Board's analysis of water taken
from wells in different parts of the city shows that the water
from these wells contains more or less pollution and their use
for drinking purposes has been condemned. This would indieate that the soil is contaminated by the larze amount of
sewage discharged into and passing through the canals in their
course through the city. ,

In the opinion of the Board some other disposal of this
sewayve should be made as the use of the canals for sewers is
objectionable from sanitary point of view and menace to
public health. 

. The Board is pleased to state that there is evidence that

the outlet of the Walnut street sewer will be extended below

the dam in the near future and the nuisance from this source
be abated. 

 '
 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH


 VITAL STATISTICS.

 The Board presents for consideration the following tables.

, resume of the Vital Statistics for the year ending November. .

 

 There have been reported during the year deaths and
 stilbiriks, death rate cf per cent per thousand
inhabitants, which, compared with deaths and stillbirths, death rate of per cent per thousand renorted

 during shows decrease this year of deaths or more

 than three fourths of one per cent. There have been deaths
of non residents in the eity during the vear.

Table A as appended shows the comparative number of
deaths, still births and death rates for the past fifteen years.
It shows that during this period there have been deaths

and still births in the city, an average of deaths per
yerur with an average death rate of per cent per thousand
population.

Table B‘ presents the number of deaths and still births
occurring each month of the year, showing an average of 

. deaths month. By referring to the table it will be seen that
the greatest mortality occurred in May and the smallest in
D mber and November, but there has been little variation
from the average number of deaths.

Table C shows that of the deaths recorded during the
year or per cent, were males, and or per
cent, were females and of the still births or per
cent were males and or per cent, were females. By
referring to the corresponding table for we find that
the ratio is practically the same. ,

Table D gives the sex and age, showing that of the 
deaths reported during the year, or per cent, were
under one year of age, and or per cent, were under
 vears of age. Sixty nine, or per cent, died between the
aves of and years or per cent, between the
aves of and years, and or per cent, were over
dU years of age.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 

Comparing these with those recorded for we find
that there have been during nineteen less deaths under
one year of age more deaths under years of age more
deaths from to years of age less deaths from to 
years of age, and less deaths over years of age.

It also interesting to note that of those under one year
of ave, were males and were females of those under 
years of age, were males and females and of those over
 years of age were males and females. There have
been deaths this year of persons over years of age, as
compared with last year.

Table E presents the number of deaths occurring at the
various ages in the several months and is interesting as showing the time of the year when the greatest mortality occurs
at the different periods of life.

Table F presents the various causes of death reported
during the year, with the number from each cause. We find
a decrease in the number of deaths from tuberculosis, there
having been as compared with during There
have been deaths from cancer as compared with during
the prding year.

In the various other divisions of causes we find very little
variation from the past two or three years.

Table G gives the number of deaths occurring in each of
the institutions of the city and also the number of those
occurring in each ward. This gives an idea of the portion of
the city in which the greatest mortality is found. As for the
past few years wards and respectively have the greatest
mortality.

One hundred and seventy six or per cent of
the total deaths occurred in the institutions of the city.
Thirty two or about per cent of those dying were nonresidents.

In Table H will be found the nativity of those dying in
the city. Of the deaths, were born in Holyoke, in
Massachusetts otherwise, and total of in the United

oy
yt
if opt 
a 
 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
 States were born in Ireland, in Canada, in Scotland,
 in England, in Germany, and the remainder in other
foreign countries.
Table K presents the place of interment of all bodies
Hoe, buried in the city, also the number sent away or brought here 
 for burial. It shows that bodies were brought to Holyoke i
a and sent away for burial. Nine hundred and sixty seven ,
gy burial permits were issued during the year.

 TABLE A.
 Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births .
 and death rates for the past fifteen years.
Deaths Still births Total Death rate

Averave death rate for fifteen vears, . 
Average ninuber of deaths for past fifteen years, ,

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
TABLE B.
Shows deaths and still births during .
Deaths Still births Total
Dmber, rr 
January,. . . . 
February, 
Mareh, . . . . 
April, rr £ 
May, . . . . 
June,. . . 
Juy,. . .hehUeeSCD 
August, . . . 
September, . . . 
October, . . . 
November, . . . 
Total . . . 
TABLE C.
Showing sex of deaths and still births during .
Deaths Still births

Male Female Male Female Total
Dmber, ow ele 
January, . . 
February, rr Y 
March, rn 
April, nr 
May, . . 
June,. . . 
July, . . . 
August, . . 
September, . . 
October, . . 
November, dD 
Total, . . 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE D.
Showing deaths by sex and age.
Males Females Total
Under year ., . 
From lto ,. . 
From to ,. . 
From to ,. . 
From to ,. . 
From to . . 
From to . 
From to . 
From to . 
From to . 
From to . 
From to . 
From to . 
From to . 
Over we, 
Unknown et S 
Total, es 
TABLE E.
Showing the number of deaths occurring at the various
ages, during each month.
Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Total
Under year, 


REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
Over . 
Unknown, i
 
TABLE F.
Showing the number of deaths from each of the following
causes, occurring in the eity during the year .
GENERAL.

Diphtheria, . . Tuber. laryngitis, . 
Measles, . Caneer, not stated, . 
Typhoid fever, . Cancerofabdomen, 
Cerebro sp. meningitis, ‘f eervical glands, 
Memb. croup, ow. ‘ "reetum, 
Nepticaemia,. . “kidney, 
Rheumatism. . “uterus, . 
Pernicious anaemla, . ‘liver, .
Anaemia, ne ‘ “ throat, . 
Syphilis, . . ‘f preast,. . 
Erysipelas, . . ‘ “Intestines,. 
Cellulitis, re ‘“ “stomaeh, 
Rachitis,. . . ‘oesophagus, 
Coxalgia, . Epithehoma of fa,. 
Tuberculosis pulmonary, Epithelioma of lips, 

Tuber. meningitis, Lympho sarcoina of medTuber. of mesentery,. iastinum, . 
Total ee F

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
NERVOUS DISEASES.
Aleoholism, Myelitis, ow. we
Meningitis, . Cerebral abscess, . 
Apoplexy, Dementia, . . 
Epilepsy, Senile dementia, . I
Infantile convulsions, Delirium tremens, . 
Paralysis, not stated,. Cerebral hemorrhage, 
Paralysis, intestinal,. Neurasthenia, . I
Hemiplegia, Meningocele, . dL
Post. diph. paralysis,. Traumatic meningitis, 
Paralysis agitans, Spina bifida, ow he
Ascending paralysis,. Chorea, . . Jd
Infantile sp. paralysis, Softening of brain, . 
Paresis, . . .
Total, . . toe. 
URINARY DISEASES.
Bricht's disease acute, Diabetes, re
Parenchymatous nephri Act. Desquamative nephtis,ehr,, . Jl ritis, 
Chr. Interstitial nephritis, Pyo nephrosis, . 
Uraeiia, . Amyloid degen. of kidCystitis, . onevsy eet ti tI
Renal Lithiasis, . 
Total 
DIGESTIVE DISEASES.
Inanition, . Intestinal obstruetion, 
Marasmus, Dysentery, 
Mal nutrition, . B& Peritonitis, . 
Acute indigestion, Cirrhosis of liver, 
Gastritis, & Hypertrophy of liver, 
CGastro enteritis, . Tlepatitis, 
Giastme ulcer, Jaundice, 
Cholera infantum, Ieterus noenatorum,. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 

Cholera Morbus,. . Strangulated hernia, 

Enteritis, . Auto intoxieation, 

Entero colitis, . Strangulated intestines, 

Tota, 
CIRCULATORY DISEASES.

. Heart disease, not stated, Angina Pectoris, . 
Fatty degen. of heart, Patulous foramen ovale,. 
Valvular disease of heart, Lymphadenitis, . 
Dilation of heart, . S Leucaemia, . . 
Endocarditis, . Phiebitis, . . 
Pericarditis, . Embolism, . . 
Myo earditis, . § Atheroma mitral valve, 
Rheumatic endocarditis, Purpura hemorrhagica, 
Mitral regurgitation,. Hemorrhage from nose, 
Aortic regurgitation, Gangrene of foot, . 
Mitral insufficiency, . Total, 
RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Pulmonary congestion, Influenza, . . 
Pulmonary oedema, . Asthma,. . . 
Pneumonia, croupous, Croup, . . 
Pneumonia, catarrhal, Whooping cough, . 
Pneumonia, broncho,. Laryngismus stridulus, 
Bronchitis, . Oedema of glottis, . 
Bronchitis, chronic, . Emphysema, . dL
Bronchitis, capillary, Pleurisy, rr?
Total, . . 
GENERATIVE DISEASES.
Complicated labor, . Caesarian section, . 
Ovarian cyst, . Puerperal convulsions, 
Post partum hemorrhage, 
Total, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
VIOLENT CAUSES. .
Shock, traumatic, . Cerebral compression, 
Shock, surgical, . Cerebral coneussion,. 
Suicide by morphine, Abdominal hemorrhage 
Suicide by arsenic, . Fracture of skull, . 
Suicide by illumin. gas, Potts fracture, . 
Suicide by eutting throat, Fracture of hip,. . 
Suicide by hanging, . Fracture of femur, 
Scalded by steam, . Accidental drowning, 
Burns, . . Crushed by train, . 
Asphyxiation congenital,. Heat prostration, . 
Strangulation accident Injury to spinal cord, 
al, re 
Total . B
, UNCLASSIFIED.
Premature birth,. . Infantile asthenia, . 
Congenital causes, . Senile asthenia,. . 
Total D
Total deaths from all causes, C 
TABLE G.
Showing the deaths oeeurring in each ward in the city
and the various institutions.

Ward ,. 
Ward ,. 
Ward ,. BD
Ward ,. 
Ward 
Ward ,. toe 
Ward / 
Bridghtside, . . tok od
IIlouse of Providence Tlospital, OD
City Hospital, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
Almshouse, . . 
Harkins Home, . . . . . 
Mount St. Vincent, . . . . . 
Franciscan Convent,. . . . . 

Total . 
Non residents, . . . . 

TABLE H.

Showing the nativity of those dying in the city during the
year Oe
Holyoke, . Switzerland, . dl
Massachusetts, . Poland, . . 
Other states,. . Germany, . 

 Scotland, toe le D

Total, United States,. England, re? 
Ireland, . . Canada,. . . 
Russia, . . Austria,. . 
New Brunswick,. Fran,. . 
Asia, . Unknown, . . 
India, . . / 
Total . . 

a TABLE K.

Showing the place of interment of those dying in the city
and those brought here for burial during Still births
included. 
Calvary, . Brightside, . . 
Elmwood, West Hlolyoke, . 
Forestdale, . South Hadley Falls,. 
St. Jerome, Out of town otherwise, 
Local burials, Ceeee £ 
Brought to Holyoke for burial, . . . 
Sent from Holyoke for burial, . . . 

Total number of burial permits issued, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
During the city has escaped any serious epidemic of
a contagious nature. Measles is the only disease which has
assumed epidemic proportions. While this was very general
about the city it was very light in form, most of the fatalities
assigned to it being due to complications.
The following table shows the comparative number of
cases of the various diseases during the past six years.
ScarletTyphoid Memb. Small
Diphtheria. Fever. Measles. Fever. Croup. Pox. Total
. . S 
. . 
. . 
. 
. . 
. . soi 
Total, . 
Av. for yrs., 
Table L presents the number of cases of each disease
reported each month of the year, showing that during March
and May the largest number of cases were reported, in both
months the increase being due to the prevalence of measles.
Table M shows the locality in the city of the various
diseases. Comparing this with the same table for we find
that as during that year Ward has the greatest number of
cases reported, while this year Ward follows as second in
number of cases.
Table N presents the number of deaths from each disease,
In the different months.
DIPHTHERIA.
There has been reported during the vear cases of
diphtheria with deaths death rate of per cent, as

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
compared with cases with deaths, death rate of 
per cent during The disease has been prevalent throughout the city, Wards and having the largest number of cases.
It has been present throughout the entire year, but in increased
number of cases during September, October, and November.
SCARLET FEVER.

Searlet fever has been evident throughout the year with
the exception of September and November. It has been
reported from every ward in the city, but Ward has had onehalf of the cases. There have been no deaths from this disease.

MEASLES.

Three hundred and fifty one eases of measles have been
reported with three deaths, death rate of per cent. The 
disease prevailed throughout the city, Ward having the
greatest number of cases.

TYPHOID FEVER.

There has been reported during the year eleven cases of
typhoid fever with four deaths. These cases have been present
in eight of the twelve months and have been scattered throughout the eity.

 CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL.
The Board would once again eall attenticn to the imperative need of hospital for the care of diseases of contagious
nature, especially diphtheria and scarlet fever. The value of
such institutions being realized more and more each year and
many cities of the state now have such accommodations which
greatly aid in the control of epidemics of such diseases. With
our large tenement districts, it evident that we should have
such building at our command in the city.
HILLSIDE HOSPITAL.
Hillside Iospital in its present condition furnishes a



 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH

fairly satisfactory as well as secluded place of confinement

for persons suffering with smallpox, but the former recommendations of this Board for improvements should rive
immediate attention. A bath room suitably connected with a

dressing and disinfecting room should be installed so that a

patient may leave the hospital free from contagion from infected wards.

A proper disposal of the sewage should be made as in the
opinion of the Board there is grave danger of the pollution
of the water of the surrounding country in the present condition which is positively dangerous when the house is occupied
with smallpox patients.

TABLE L.
 Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months.
Memb. Scarlet Typhoid sere Small

Diphtheria. Cr. Measles Fever. Fever. Meng. Pox. Total

Dmber, . d
January, . Oe 
February, . 
March, oD 
Apri, . 
May, . 
June, . 
July, Wd 
August, . ll 
September, 
October, 
November, 
Total, . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
TABLE M.
Showing contagious diseases by Wards.
I Total .
Diphtheria, . PA 
Memb. Croup, 
Measles, PR C BAL B D
Scarlet fever, 
Typhoid fever, 
Cerebro sp. men., 
Smallpox, . 
Total, . 
TABLE N.
Showing deaths from contagious diseases during .
Cerebro
Memb. Scarlet Tvphoid Sp. Small

Diphtheria. Cr. Measles. Fever. Fever. Meng. Pox. Total
Dmber, 
January, 
February . 
Mareh, 
April, 
May, . 
June, . B D
July, 
August,. . 
September, . 
October, 
November, . 
Total, . $ 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
FINANCIAL REPORT.
The following is the financial statement of the Board for
the year ending November .
Appropriation, . . $. 
Ripts, re 
Additional appropriation, 
Total UU. $. 
Regular monthly bills, . $. 
Regular pay roll,. . . . 
Milk department bills, . . 
Total $. 
Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELIL, M. D., Chairman 
FRANK A. WOODS, M. D., Secretary 
J J. LINEHAN, Health Officer,
Board of Health.

Report of the Health Officer.
To the Board of Health

GENTLEMEN IT hereby submit report of your Health
Officer for year ending During the past year the number
of minor nuisances, such as dirty cellars, tenements and yards
has decreased, also Jess amount of food product was de 
stroved. This in itself is an indication that the people of our
city recognize the importance of sanitary surroundings and the
relation they bear to the pubhte health.

The maumber of old buildings still continues to deerease 
the number removed durme the past vear beme nine with
action pending on four.

am happy to state that the improvement noted in my
last report in regard to the sale of decayed fruit and vegetables
and produce still continues. At the present time no fault can
be found with any of these articles for wholesale or retail in
the city and in only two cases was it found nssary to order
woods removed from unsanitary premuses,

Four places used for the manufacture of ice cream were
ordered closed owing to the unsanitary condition of the
premises, three of which places have comphed with the requirements of the Board, one remaining losed.

On orders of the Board, water was drawn from two ponds
In West Holvoke from which places ice is harvested, and same
thoroughly cleaned and are now in first class condition,

Other duties performed by vour officer are sufficiently set
forth in the accompanying tables. Several verbal and minor
complaints have been atiended to which were not of sufficient
Inportance to be entered upon the records,




 REPORT OF BUARD OF HEALTH

NOTICES SERVED AND PRODUCTS DESTROYED.

Manufacture of ice cream ordered stopped places, 

Grapes destroyed baskeis, Seee

Dead animals removed,. ttCSsti‘isSB‘D

Decayed melons destroyed, . . . 

Decayed bananas destroyed bunches,. . 

Decayed berries destroyed crates, re 

Rabbits ordered removed, . . . 

Ice ponds ordered cleaned, west 

Decayed meat destroved pounds,. 

Swill eans ordered,. 

Dirty yards ordered cleaned, ee

Dirty cellars ordered cleaned, we estiSsSz‘K

Ash chutes ordered cleaned,. we, 

Stables ordered cleaned,. . ed

Dirty markets ordered cleaned, wee 

Dirty fish carts ordered cleaned, ee, 

Dirty tenements ordered cleaned, wi

Vacant houses ordered cleaned ee, 

Manure piles ordered removed, . ™ esi

Rooms furmgated, RS

Contagious disease ecards posted, rer 

Dirty mattresses destroved,. .

Meat, decayed in alley, ordered removed, . 

Hens in cellar ordered removed, .,, 

Pigeons in cellar and building ordered removed,. 

Water in cellar ordered removed, 

Pies in cellar ordered removed. oo, 

Throwing dirty water in street and alley ordered stopped. 

Premises ordered vacated, ., J

Biuldines removed, . . y

Buildings closed and condemned, 

Rays in tenements ordered removed o. , be

Raes in cellars ordered removed, Coe 

Dirty chieken coops ordered cleaned, 

Garbave in cellars ordered removed . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
Peddlers’ licenses investigated, . . 
Dried fruit destroyed pounds, nr 
Manure water in street ordered removed, . 
Dirty milk earts ordered cleaned, . . 
Night soil in street ordered removed, . 
Legal notices served, . . . 
Fish refuse ordered removed, . . 
Filthy stores ordered cleaned, . . 
Jelly ordered destroyed pounds, . . . 
Cellars damp, ordered repaired,. . . 
House offal on land ordered removed, . 
Offensive odors in buildings, . . . 
Untidy premises, . . . . 
Rubbish in cellars ordered removed,. . . 
Houses and yards inspected, rn 
Swill nuisances, ee
Stagnant water nuisance, Ot 
Minor nuisances abated, 
Veyvetables destroyed bushels, 

During the year it was found nssary to order tenements cleaned. The general condition of the tenement property, however, throughout the city very good, and our city
as whole will compare favorably with any city of its size
and conditions.

The mumber of anonymous complaints sent to the office
continues to increase, to which no attention paid, it being
unnssary as all complaints are strictly confidential.

In conelusion wish to return thanks to Marshal Wright
and members of the Pohee Department and to the members
of the Board for their courtesy and co operation, which has
been of great assistance to me in my work,

Respectfully submitted,
J.J. LINEHAN,
ITealth Officer.

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing.

To the Board of Health

GENTLEMEN As Inspector of Phunbing T have the honor
of submitting the twelfth annual report for the fiscal year
ending November .

The following table will show to some extent the amount ,
and nature of the work.
Water closets put in new buildings, AT
Sinks “ rr D
Baths ce ees eS
Bowls sees Coeee FOU
Wash travs “f CoeBOT
Urinals se fees “ 
Traps se eS ‘ toe DORE
Water closets put In old buildings, B 
Sinks se fees re f.
Baths cf tess ‘ Coeee

 Bowls shores ‘ re 

Wash travs “ ne co
Urinals sess es re a
Traps Ss fees Coe OTD
Nuuiber of permits granted 
Water tests made, BT
Inspections of old and new plumbing, . . 
Legal notices served to abate muusanees, 

All eases have comphed with the requirements of the
Board.

The unusual amount of new work during the past vear
shows the rapid growth of the work of this department and in 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
conjunction with the examinations of imperfect plumbing and
nuisances pertaining to same, places the department work in
its entirety on much larger comparative scale than in most
cities of this size. 

I am pleased to state the completion of the Ingleside and
Highland sewers has enabled this department to abate the
nuisances formerly existing in these localities.

Two general inspections of Barber shops have been made
during the year and in most cases they have been found to
meet the requirements of the Board. Five warnings of minor
offenses were sent to owners of these shops and I am pleased to
state that all shops at the present time are in good sanitary

 condition.

The rnt epidemics of contagious and infectious diseases
in certain sections of the Commonwealth would indicate that
some attention should be given to my recommendation of 
former years as regards house to house inspection of plumbing.

I would again eall attention to the sanitary condition of
Hillside Hospital. A fumigating and bath room should be
installed for the use of convalescent patients and proper
disposal made of the sewage. The continued use of the privy
vault in its present location is to be condemned, and in the
opinion of the writer there is grave danger of the pollution
of the water of the surrounding country by the present general
sanitary conditions, which are positively dangerous when the
house is occupied by smallpox patients.

In conclusion I desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and co operation.

Respectfully submitted, 
F.L. AVERY,
Inspector of Plumbing.


Report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners.
To the Board of Health
GENTLEMEN The report of the Board of Plumbing Exaiiners for the fiscal vear ending November is hereby
respectfully submitted.
Number of applications for Master Plumbers’ examinations, . 
Number of applications for Journeyman Plumbers’ examInations, . . . 
Number of appheants recommended to the Board of
Health as qualified to rive Journeyman Plumbers’ leense, ea eS
The number of applications for examinations have diminished during the year as the plumbers realize the fact that
they must be thoroughly competent before taking examination.
The result is that the city saves considerable money for examIninNg meompetent men and the general class of mechanics are
Improved, 
Respectfully submitted,
 A. B. WETITERELL, M. D.
JAMES UL. TIGHE, City Engineer
MARTIN F. BOWE, 
Attest FLL. AVERY, Seeretary. Practical Plumber.

Report of the Inspector of Milk, 
Vinegar and Petroleum.
To the Board of Health

I have the honor to submit herewith the following report
as Inspector of Milk, Vinegar, and Petrolerm for the City of
Holyoke for the year ending November .

MILK.

Total number of licenses granted, . 
Number granted to peddlers, . . 
Number granted to stores and stands, 
Number granted for sale of oleomargarine, 
T have paid into the City Treasury as license fees

rived, Co ke$ 
I have paid into the City Treasury money rived for

distilled water, . . R 

 Number of quarts of sweet milk sold in the city daily

Bo.
Number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily s, 
Number of quarts of cream sold daily is,. 

Making the total number of quarts of sweet milk , ,
of skimmed milk , and of cream , sold this past
Shin Which at the retail value of milk and cream as sold in
this city amounts to $.

Number of milk samples tested, . . 
Number of butter samples tested, . 
Number of vinegar samples tested, . . 
. umber of kerosene oil samples tested, eS 
Number of prosecutions, . 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Number of warnings sent, milk, . . . 
Number of warnings sent, wooden plugs, . 

MILK.

There have been ten prosecutions this year, all for selling
milk of not good standard quality. Three parties were fined
$ each, six were fined $ each, and one $ .

All these paid their fines except one, who appealed to the
Superior Court on the grounds that the milk was not sold.

I have sent out warnings and all but the ones that have
been fined, have paid attention to them and these escaped
prosecution.

A sample of milk brought to me for examination appeared
to be milk taken from cow too soon after calving. Upon.
investization this proved to be the fact.

The way milk is brought me for test or examination is to
say the least, unsatisfactory. In one ease the milk, one half
ounce, was in dirty medicine bottle another, about four
ounces, in half pint flask that was stained with dirt on the
inside and smelled of wintergreen. Of course nothing can be
done with samples of this kind. Bring me all the milk just as
you rive it, in the same container, and as soon as possible
after you get it, then I can test it.

The license of one peddler was revoked by order of the
Board of Health, for having dirty wagon, and was renewed
only after he had obtained another wagon that was acceptable.
Almost all the wagons are in good condition, but few are not
in good shape. 

The wooden plug does not come to Holyoke any more. I
have been able to find but three in the past year.

I have been with Health Officer Linehan few times, and
he has helped me several times.

The Babeock tester operated by electric power has been in
use now for over vear, and enables me to do more and better
work than IT eould with the old hand machine.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
 VINEGAR.

I have tested samples of vinegar and found them all
up to the standard, except two that were brought in by dealers
who wished them tested before they bought.

OLEOMARGARINE.

I have issued but two licenses for oleomargarine, one for

a store and one for peddler.
BUTTER.

One party was fined for selling renovated butter, not being
properly marked. This party was prosecuted by State Agent
Harwood. In March I found renovated butter in tubs from
which the revenue stamps had been removed, in seven stores.
These cases I turned over to KE. L. Kirtland, Deputy Collector.

PETROLEUM.

I have tested samples from & tank cars and found them
all lawful oil. There has been no attempt to send poor l into
the city this year, as has been the case almost every year of
late. 

I have had great assistance from the Health Officer and
the Board of Health, also from my Collector of Samples.

I thank the City Marshal and the patrolmen for the help
they have given me.

Respectfully submitted,
JAMES K. MORRILL,
Inspector of Milk and Vinegar.

Report of Bacteriologist.
To the Board of Health, City of Holyoke, Mass.

GENTLEMEN I have the honor to submit the following
report for the year ending November .

There have been referred to me during the past year
cultures from the throat or nose of persons, to determine
the presence or absence of diphtheria bacilli. A total of 
cultures have been examined from these cases. The work
of the year shows an increase of in the number of cases
examined, and an increase of in the number of cultures
made and examined.

Diphtheria was somewhat more prevalent throughout the
past year than during more positive cases being reported
for each month of the year except in March, April, and November. The number of eases for diagnosis showing diphtheria
bacilli was and cases were negative on the diagnostic
culture. Thirty five eases were submitted for release only, and
of these showed diphtheria germs and did not show
them.

A noteworthy fact to be mentioned in connection with the
year’s work the very high percentage of positive cases which
have been released only upon the finding of negative eulture.
There has been steady improvement in this line from year to
vear, and during practically all positive eases have been
so treated. It seems to me that this praetice cannot but tend
to prevent the spread of the disease. Numerous positive eultures have been taken before release negative could be
obtained in very many cases, and in one case cultures in all
were made.

Below will be found the monthly record of work.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
CASES AND CULTURES EXAMINED .
Dmber, 
January, 
February, . 
Marech,. . 
April, . . 
May, . . 
June, . 
July, . . Ul 
August, . 
September. . T 
October, oe 
November, . 
Totals,. . 
Total cases examined, . . . 
Total cultures examined, . . . . 
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT C. EMERSON, M. D.,
Bacteriologist.
Dmber Springfield, Mass.

I

 
Report of Inspector of Provisions, Etc.
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen
GENTLEMEN The following is the report of your Inspector of Provisions, ete., for the year ending 
Number of neat cattle inspected, . . . 
Number of swine inspected,. . . . 
Number of barns inspected,. . . . Ti
Number of barns ordered cleaned, . . . WW 
Beef condemned pounds,. . . . 
Pork condemned pounds,. . . . 
In conclusion I wish to return thanks to Health Officer
J J. Linehan and Dr. J. J. Moynahan for their assistance and
co operation during the year.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE L. GOODY EAR,
Inspector of Provisions, Ete.


