REPORT OF

BOARD OF HEALTH.

To the Honorable, the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen

GENTLEMEN In comphance with the Public Statutes,
the Board of Health herewith submits for vour consideration
its twenty sixth annual report. ,

The Board met for organization on the first Monday of
February, eleeting the following officers Chairman, Dr. A.
B. Wetherell secretary, Dr. Frank A. Woods.

GENERAL WORK.
The Board of Health takes advantage of the opportunity
 offered by its twenty sixth annual report to congratulate the
publie on the general good health of the city, its freedom from
excessive contagious disease during the past vear, and its present sanitary condition. .

The Board still continues to exereise its powers for the
abatement of all nuisances prejudicial to health, and general
improvement of sanitary eonditions is evident throughout the
city.

The recommendations of former reports are again presented for your consideration, as follows

First. The extension of the Walnut street sewer to a
point below the dam, and the elimination of all sewage from
eanals in their passave through the city. The establishment of hospital for the eare of contagious diseases, especially diphtheria and searlet fever. The need of an institution
of this character imperative. Third. The sanitary condition of Hillside hospital bath and disinfeeting room should
be installed and proper dispcsal of sewage be made.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
BAKERIES.

 Such inspections of bakeries as were deemed nssary
have been made, and in most eases these manufactories of food
products were found in satisfactory condition.

It was found nssary to close two bakeries during the
year, as in the opinion of the Board the sanitary conditions
and general surroundings were of character not condueive to
good health. One of these bakeries has since complied with
the requirements of the Board, the other remaining elesed.
 There are at present twenty eight bakeries in operation in

 the city.
BACTERIOLOGY.

The Board has continued its existing system of bacte riological examinations in all cases of diphtheria or suspected
throat trouble. Of one hundred and ninety six cultures examined, one hundred and three were negative, thereby saving
considerable trouble and annoyance in quarantining people.

In addition to this work, the Board has made arrangements with the baeteriologist to examine, during the coming
year, sputa of all suspected cases of tuberculosis of the lungs
and the Widal test to be used in all eases of typhoid fever.
This places the possibility of diagnosis of the serious diseases
within the reach of all physicians without extra expense. 

UNDERTAKERS.
Thirteen leenses have been granted to engage in this
business during the vear The license of one .wndertaker was
revoked because of failure to comply with the laws of the eom monwealth and the rules and reewations of the local board.
, SLAUGHTER HOUSES.

All manufacturers of sausage and prepared meat within the
eity have been granted lieenses by this Board. Sixteen licenses
have been granted for the manufacture of sausage, prepared
meat and slaughtering.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 

The supervision of these places of business has caused an
improvement in the character of the articles furnished to the
public for consumption.

BARBER SHOPS. 
 There exists very general desire on the part of most barbers to comply with the regulation of the Board, and the shops
as whole are found most satisfactory. Numerous inspections have been made during the year and it has been found
nssary to send twenty three warnings for minor complaints.

In few eases there is indication that legal measures will
have to be employed or shops closed.

INSPECTOR OF MILK, VINEGAR AND PETROLEUM

 A general inspection of all dairies supplying milk to the
city has been made during the year by representative of the
State Board of Health, and the Local Inspector. Wherever
cause for complaint has been found, the producer has been 
notified and such future action as will best result for pure
milk supply will be performed by the Board as the occasion

' presents itself.

The duties of the office are performed in most satisfactory manner, and the general quality of milk is up to the
standard.

The report of the Inspector of milk, vinegar and petroleum
 appended.

 BARNS AND LIVERY STABLES.

The Board has rived all applications for the erection
and oceupaney of buildings to be used as barns. The premises 
in all cases have been viewed and general conditions given due ,
consideration.

Seven barns have been erected during the vear. .

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
 BOARD OF PLUMBING EXAMINERS. 

The examination and licensing of plumbers as required
by the laws of the Commonwealth has been performed by the
Board according to the provisions of the act. There have been
no examinations for master, but six for journeyman plumbers.

The report of the plumbing examiners is appended. 

VITAL STATISTICS.

The Board presents for your consideration the following
resume of the vital statistics for the year ending November ,
 

There have been reported during the year deaths and
sixty nine still births, death rate of per cent per
thousand inhabitants, which compared with deaths and
ninety five still births, death rate of per cent per
thousand, and reported during the year shows an inerease this year of sixty four deaths or three fourths of one
per cent per thousand.

Table A, as appended, shows the comparative number of
deaths, still births and death rates for the past seventeen 
vears. It shows that during this period there have been 
deaths in. the city, an average of deaths per year with an
average death rate of per cent per thousand population. 

Table B presents the number of deaths and still births oeeurring each month of the year, showing an average of seventythree deaths per month. The greatest mortality occurred in
August, when there were deaths, in July, when there were

ninety three deaths, and in February, when there were ninety
deaths. The smallest curred in November, during which
month there were forty five deaths, the smallest number of
deaths any one month for several years.

Table C shows that of the deaths reeorded during
 or per cent were males and or per
eent were females. Of the sixty nine still births, thirty five
were males and thirty four were females.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTII 

Table D gives the sex and age of those dying during the
year, showing that of the deaths, or per cent
were under one year of age and or per cent were
under five years of age, fifty or per cent died between the
aves of five and twenty years or per cent between
the ages of twenty and fifty years and or per cent
were over fifty years of age. Comparing this record with that
of we find that there have been during thirty five
more deaths under one vear of age forty three more deaths

 under five years of age nineteen less deaths from five to twenty
years of age eighteen less deaths from twenty to fifty years
 of age, and sixty two more deaths over fifty years of ave.

It is also interesting to note that of those under one year of
ave were males and were females of those under five
vears of age were males and were females, and of
those over fifty years of age were males and were females.

There have been thirty five deaths this vear of persons
over elghty vears of age as compared with twenty six during
and sixteen during 

Table E presents the muunber of deaths occurring at the
various ages in the several months, and is interesting as showing the time of year in which the greatest mortality occurs at
the different periods of life.

Table F presents the various causes of death reported during with the number of deaths from each cause. We
find only sixty six deaths from tubereulosis as compared with
elzhty seven during and during The number
of deaths from eancer remains very constant, there having

been thirty as compared with thirty three last vear.

There has been an increase in deaths due to nervous
diseases, this increase being largely, however, in those dying
from apoplexy.

Among the deaths due to respiratory diseases it noticeable that there have been deaths from pneumonia and
twenty two from whooping cough.

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Table G gives the number of deaths occurring in each of .
the institutions of the city, and also the number of those occurring in each ward. This shows that in Wards and respectively, there has been the greatest mortality. In these
wards are our most crowded tenement districts.
Two hundred and thirty seven or per cent of the total deaths occurred in the institutions of the city.
Eighty three or over nine per cent of those dying during
 the year were non residents. Nearly all of this number were
brought to the various institutions of the city for treatment and
died in the institutions. The death rate of the city is there by increased per cent per thousand inhabitants.
In Table H will be found the nativity of those dying in
the city during .
Of the deaths, or per cent were born in
' Holyoke, or per cent in Massachusetts otherwise,
and total of or per cent in the United States 
were born in Ireland, eighty four in Canada, eighteen in Scotland, twenty one in England, twenty in Germany, eight in
Austria, five in Poland, three in Russia, two in Italy, two in
France, and one each in Gre, Asia, Switzerland, Sweden
and New Brunswick.
Table K presents the place of interment of all bodies
, buried in the city, and also the number sent away or brought
to the eity for burial. It shows that seventy seven bodies were
brought to Holvoke and sent away for burial. Ten hundred and twenty burial permits were issued during the year.
TABLE A.
Showing the comparative number of deaths, still births
and death rates for the vears inclusive.


REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
, Deaths Still births Total Death rate 

 
 Total number of deaths for years, .
Average number of deaths per year, 
Average death rate, .
TABLE B. 
Shows deaths and still births during .
Deaths Still births Total
Dmber er Ye 
January Coe BOTT .
February re 
March re 
April rn f. St 
May eso Ta
June es Y 
Julyee B 
August Poeee 
September 
October ry 
' November ne 
Total nr oY 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE C.
Showing sex of deaths and still births during .
Deaths Still births

Males Females Males Females Total
Dmber 
January CoeBB D 
February rn fo 
Mareh rr 
April St
May eS Se 
Une Poe 
July ns 
August CookeGO 
september CoeBD 
October aS 
November ec 
 Total ne” CE” Ss LS

TABLE D.

Showing deaths by sex and age.

 Miles Females Total
Under vear’ woe ele D 
From to re a 
From to 
From to re 
From to re i
From to re 
From to re 
From to Cooke 
From to D 
From to re 
From to ? Sl oe
From to re ? SZ
From to re 

 From to es 
Over ? Q 
Total. Sit

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH ddl
TABLE E.

Showing the number of deaths urring at the various

ages, during each month.
 oa Ew gs EF
$ Be

Under year 
From to WB
From to 
From to di 
From to 
From to B 
From to lo 
From to ?
From to BOF
From to 
From to dS
From to &
From to 
From to 
Over 

Total D T T 

TABLE F.

Showing the number of deaths from each of the following

causes, occurring in the citv during the vear .
GENERAL. ,

Diphtheria. .' Caneerofaxilla . 
searlet fever . ce ear . 
Measles . . " pleura 
Typhoid fever . “ reetum 
Cerebro sp. meningitis aterms 
Memb. croup . liver ww
Septicaemia . SS breast 
Pyaemia re "stomach 
Rheumatism oe. yneritoneum id

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Pernicious anaemia . Cancerofthroat. . 
Congestive malaria. ‘“ intestines . 
Syphilis . “mouth 
Ervsipelas . . ‘“ oesophagus. 
General eczema . Sarcoma of orbit . tL
. Rachitis . Osteo sarcoma of knee joint 
Tubereulosis pulmonary Melano sareoma . 
Tuber. meningitis Metastatie abscess . dt
Tuber. laryngitis Abseess of knee joint 
, Caneer, not stated . Total 
NERVOUS DISEASES.
Aleoholism . Cerebral embolism . 
 Meningitis . Cerebraltumor 
Traumatic meningitis Cerebral congestion dt
Septic meningitis . Neurasthenia . 
Chronic meningitis Spina bifida . Id
Apoplexy . Locomotor ataxia . 
 Infantile convulsions Hydrocephalus 
. Hemiplegia . . Miero phalisam 
Faraplegia . Encephalitis . 
Infantile paralysis . Tetanus ow whe UD
Demetia . . Exopthalmie goitre . 
Delirium tremens . Herpes Zoster. . 
Total 
URINARY DISEASES.
Acute Bright’s disease Cystitis . . JI
Chr. Parenchymatous Diabetes 
nephritis . Renal ealenli . 
Chr. Interstitial nephri Pyelo nephritis . 
tis . Retention of urine. 
Uraemia rn ts 
Total we 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
 DIGESTIVE DISEASES.

Inanition . Peritonitis . . 
Marasmus . Appendicitis . 
Mal nutrition . Cirrhosis of liver . 

, Acute indigestion . Congestionofliver . 
Gastritis acute . Septic hepatitis . dL
Gastritis chronic . Ieterus neonatorum. 
Gastro enteritis . Jaundice . . 
Enteritis . Abseess of liver . dL

Entero colitis . Sftrangulated hernia dt 
Tleo colitis . . Act. dilation of stomach. 
Cholera infantum Dentition . . 
Gastric uleer . Cholelithiasis . 
Dysentery . Stricture of oesophagus 
Intestinal obstruction Abdominal tumor . 

Total ,
CIRCULATORY DISEASES. 
Heart disease, not stated Myo carditis . 
Fatty degeneration of heart Angina Pectoris . 
Valvular disease of heart Septic phlebitis . 
Hypertrophy of heart Thrombo phlebitis . 
Mitral regurgitation Artero sclerosis . 
Mitral stenosis . Purpura haemorrhagica 
Mitral insufficiency . Haemorrhage of umbilicus 
 Acttic stenosis . Senile gangrene . d
Endocarditis Thoracieaneurism 
Chr. endocarditis . Aneurism of aorta dt
 Rheumatic endocarditis Gangrene of leg . 

Septic endoearditis . Hyperpyrexia . 
Pericarditis Splenic abscess . 
Total D

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
RESPIRATORY DISEASES.
Fulmonary congestion Influenza . . 
Pulmonary oedema . Asthma re 
Pulmonary haemorrhage Whooping cough. 
Pneumonia, croupous Pleurisy 
Pneumonia, broncho Pneumo Hydrothorax 
 Bronchitis . Asphyxia neonatorum 
Bronchitis, chronic . Ataletasis 
Bronchitis, capillary 
 Total 
GENERATIVE DISEASES.
Complicated labor . Uterine Fibro Cystie Myxoma rs 
Puerperal septicaemia Uterme Fibroid, induced
labor re 
. Abortion . Lt Ovarianeyst J
Total 
VIOLENT CAUSES.
Shock, traumatic Cerebral coneussion dt
Shock, surgical . Abdominal hemorrhage 
Suicide by poison . Fracture of skull . 
 Suieide by shooting . Fracture of spine . 
Suicide by drowning Fraeture of femur 
Sealded by steam . Accidental drowning 
Burns. . Crushed by train. 
Suffocation, accidental Sunstroke . . J
Total D
UNCLASSIFIED.
Fremature birth Infantile asthenia 
Congenital causes . Senile asthenia. . 
Total a
Total deaths from all eauses ST 


 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
TABLE G.

Showing the deaths occurring in each ward in the city

and the various institutions.
Ward 
Ward Cee ek ke 
Ward 
Ward weee 
Ward 
Ward Ce TO
Ward Be A
Citv Hospital . . he G
House of Providence Hospital . . . 
Harkins Home
Brightside Institution . . . . 
Almshouse . . ea BO
Total Ce RTF
Non residents ew B

 TABLE H.
 Showing the nativity of those dving in the city during the
vear .
Holyoke . France 
Massachusetts . Gr . . 
Other states . & Poland tookOD
Total United States. Austria rr.’
Ireland J Italy woe ee
Germany . New Brunswick . 
England . Switzerland 
Canada . . Sweden. . . 
Russia. . . Syria re 
Seotland. . . 
Total OTE

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
TABLE K.
Showing the place of interment of those dying in the city
and those brought here for burial during Still births 
included. 
‘Calvary . Brightside 
Elmwood . & West Holvoke 
Forestdale . . South Hadley Falls. 
St. Jerome . Out of town otherwise 
Loeal burials en 
Brought to Holvoke fer burial OTT
Sent from Holyoke for burial 
Total number of burial permits issued 
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
, During the year ending November the city has
been free from any epidemic of contagious nature.
The following table shows the comparative number of
eases of the various diseases during the past seven years
Scarlet Typhoid Memb. Cerebro Small
Diphtheria Fever Measles Fever Croup Sp.Meng. Pox Total
 
 O 
 
 at Ta 
 
 vw, 
 
Total 
Av. for .
 vrs. 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
This presents the number of cases of the various contagious diseases reported each year since which gives an
idea of the average number of such cases occurring each year.
 Table L presents the number of cases of each disease reported each month of the year.
Table M shows the locality in the city in which the greatest amount of contagion existed. We still find it most prevalent in Ward .
Table N gives the number of deaths from each disease in 
the different months. ,
DIPHTHERIA.
There has been reported during the year cases of
diphtheria with fifteen deaths, death rate of per cent. 
This disease has existed throughout the city, Ward having
 had the largest number of cases. It has been evident during
the whole year with the exception of the month of March, but
at no time has approached an epidemic.
SCARLET FEVER.
Searlet fever has also been present throughout the year.
It has been reported from every ward in the city, being more
prevalent in Wards , and .
There has been sixty nine cases reported with four deaths,
a death rate of per cent.
MEASLES.
There has been twenty six cases of measles reported with
two deaths, death rate of per cent. One half of these
eases occurred in Ward .

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
. TYPHOID FEVER.

Sixteen cases of typhoid fever have been reported, coming from all parts of the city. They have been few and scattering in number, occurring throughout the year. There have
been three deaths from the disease, death rate of per
cent.

TABLE L.
Showing the contagious diseases as reported by months.
’ Memb. Scarlet Typhoid Cerebro Small

‘ Diphtheria Croup Measles Fever Fever Sp.Meng. Pox Total
Dmber 
January 
February 
March 
April 
May 

June 
July 
August 
September 
, October ? 
November 
Total d

e

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
TABLE M.
Showing contagious diseases by Wards.
, Total
Diphtheria 
Memb. croup ,
Measles 
Searlet fever 
Typhoid fever 
Cer.sp.meng. 
Total 
TABLE N.
' Presenting the deaths from contagious diseases during
 
Memb. Searlet Typhiod Cerebro Small
Diphtheria Croup Measles Fever Fever Sp.Meng. Pox Total
Dmber 
January 
February 
March 
April 
May 
June G
July 
August 
September 
October 
November 
Total, 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
FINANCIAL REPORT.
The following ‘s the financial statement of the Board for
the year ending November .

Appropriation oe $. 

Appropriation, medical inspection 

 Ripts Bee 
Total Bo $. 

Regular monthly bills oe $. 

Milk department bills$ 

Salaries Soeee 
 Total Co, $. 
$ 
Transferred re 
Balanee re $ 

. Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WETHERELL, M. D, Chairman 
 FRANK A. WOODS, M. D., Secretary 

J. J. LINNEHAN, Health Officer,

 Board of Health.

 Report of the Health Officer.
To the Board of Health 

GENTLEMEN I hereby submit report of your Health
Officer for the year During the year minor nuisances
such as dirty cellars, yards and tenements have still decreased.
This in itself is an indication that the people of our city recognize the importance of sanitary surroundings and the relation they bear to the public health.

The number of old buildings still continues to decrease 
the number removed during the year being four with action
pending on two.

During the year two places used for the manufacture of
ice cream were ordered closed, owing to their unsanitary condition.

The action of the Board of Aldermen in referring all applicants for the sale of fruit and vegetables, to this Board,
shows the advisability of their action.

It was found nssary to bring three complaints to the
Police Court, two were found guilty and one was discharged.
This was only done after repeated warnings.

I would recommend to the Board that some action be taken to amend the slaughtering laws of this state, so that all
eattle killed locally must be passed upon by the local inspector. My reason for this is that several cases of so called bob
veal were seized and condemned, although officially stamped
by outside towns.

NOTICES SERVED AND PRODUCTS DESTROYED.
Manufacture of ice cream ordered stopped places. 
Grapes destroyed baskets 
Dead animals removed . . SS, asiaSsti‘i‘Cz'SK
Decayed melons destroved rs 
Decayed bananas destroved bunches rr 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH
Deeayed berries destroyed crates ne 
Rabbits removed 
Ice ponds ordered cleaned . . we 
Decayed meat destroyed pounds toe
Swill eans ordered Ce 
Dirty yards ordered cleaned . OD
Dity cellars ordered cleaned . . . 
Ash chutes ordered cleaned re 
Stables ordered cleaned Ts
Dirty markets ordered cleaned Ck 
Dirty fish earts ordered cleaned re 
Dirty tenements ordered cleaned . . 
Vacant houses ordered cleaned 
Manure piles ordered removed tsetCSsté‘xWST
Rooms fumigated OO
Contagious disease cards posted See 
 Dirty mattresses destroyed rs f
Meat, decayed in alley, ordered removed . 
Hens in cellar ordered removed rn fe.
Pigeons in cellar and building ordered removed . 
Water in cellar ordered removed 
Pies in cellar ordered removed ati 
Throwing dirty water in street and alley ordered stopped 
Premises ordered vacated rn f.
Buildings removed Be 
Rags mm tenements ordered removed 
 Rags in cellar ordered removed re 
Garbage in cellars ordered removed 
Peddlers’ licenses investigated re 
Dried fruit destroved pounds . . . 
Manure water in street ordered removed . ., 
Legal notices served Be, 
Fish refuse ordered removed . 
Filthy stores ordered cleaned 
Jelly ordered destroved pounds . 
Cellars damp, ordered repaired 
Ifouse offal on land ordered removed . 

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH 
Offensive odors in buildings . . . WD
Untidy premises . . . . 
Rubbish in cellars ordered removed 
House and yards inspected Coeee 
Swill nuisances 
Minor nuisances abated Coeee ,
Vegetables destroved bushels . . . 

During the year it was found nssary to order twenty
tenements closed, which is decrease from last vear. The
general condition of tenement property is good and it will 
compare favorably with any city of its size and conditions.

I also wish to congratulate the Board on the condition of
the Milk Department, which I think is recognized by the citizens in general. This department is under the charge of Mr.
James K. Morrill, who has several times given me valuable
assistance.

In conelusion I wish to return thanks to Dr. J. J. Moynahan, Marshal Wright and the members of the Police Department, and to the members of the Board for their courtesy
and co operation, which has been of great assistanee to me in
my work.

Respectfully submitted,
J. J. LINNEHAN,
Health Officer.

Report of the Inspector of Plumbing.
To the Board of Health

GENTLEMEN As Inspector of Plumbing I have the honor
of submitting the thirteenth annual report for the fiscal year
ending November .

The following table will show to some extent the amount
and nature of the work

Water closets put in new buildings . . d£ 
Sinks put in new buildings rn .
Baths put in new buildings . . . 
. Bowls put in new buildings . . . 
 Wash trays put in new buildings . . . 
Urinals put in new buildings . ttssdHL
 Traps put in new buildings st ystiCSCSCC‘SCSA A
Water closets put in old buildings . SS .ti.sd 'T
Sinks put inold buildings . .,staSsiCSWd‘ Gs
Baths put in old buildings .ess CSsiiz 
Bowls put in old buildings S 
Wash trays put in old buildings . . . 
Urinals put in old buildings . .etes Csté‘izs
Traps T
Number of permits granted O 
Water testsmade . . . . . 
Inspections of old and new plumbing . . 
Legal notices served to abate nuisances Cooke, 

All cases have complied with the requirements of the
Board.

The unusual amount of new work during the past year
shows the rapid growth of the work of this Department, and 
in conjunction with the examinations of imperfect plumbing
and nuisances pertaining to saine, places the department work

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
in its entirety on much larger comparative scale than in 
most cities of this size.

Three general inspections of barber shops have been made .
during the year and in most cases they have been found to
meet the requirements of the Board. Twenty three warnings
of minor offenses were sent to owners of these shops, and I am
pleased to state that all shons at the present time are in good
sanitary condition.

It would seem advisable that plans for all sewers from the
building line to house should be filed at the office of the Board
of Health, and permits granted before work is commenced. ,
These sewers should be laid by plumbers or licensed drainlayers, and in all cases be inspected before being filled in. The
amending of that section relating to sewers in the Rules and .
Regulations of the Board of Health is,’ therefore, presented
for consideration. 

During the year it has at times been impossible or extremely difficult for your Inspector to give the nssary time
to the office, during the hour from one to two p. m. I find that
many people desiring the services of this Department request 
that calls be made at this hour so they may be there in person,
thereby riving more intelligent and comprehensive report of existing conditions. During busy times the value of
the hour may be annvreciated on new as well as old work. It
would, therefore, seem advisable to make the official office hours

. of the Inspector from eight to nine a. m., only. This’ has
been found nssary in most cities of our size and is general
throughout the state.

The recommendations of former years regarding house to
house insnection and the sanitary conditions of Hillside Hospital are again presented for consideration.

In conclusion I desire to thank the members of the Board
for their courtesy and co operation.

Respectfully submitted,
 F. L. AVERY,
. Inspector of Plumbing.

Report of the Board of Plumbing
Examiners.
To the Board of Health

GENTLEMEN The report of the Board of Plumbing Examiners for the fiseal year ending November is hereby respectfully submitted.

Number of appheations for Master Plumbers’ examina ,

tions Be a
Ntunnber of applheation for Journeyinan Plumbers’ examnations Ce ek kG
Ntunber of applicants recommended to the Board of

Ilealth as qualified to ive Journeyman Phunbers’ license ee
. Respectfully submitted,

A.B. WETITERELL, M. D.,

JAMES L. TIGHE, City Engineer,

MARTIN F. BOWE, Practical Plumber.
Attest EF. L. Avery, Seeretary.

Report of the Inspector of Milk,
Vinegar and Petroleum.
OFFICE oF INSPECTOR, City Hall, Holyoke, Mass., .
To the Honorable, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen

I have the honor to submit herewith the following report
as Inspector of Milk, Vinegar and Petroleum for the City of
Holyoke for the year ending November .

MILK.
Total number of licenses granted Co 
Total granted to peddlers rn 
Number granted to storesandstands 
Number granted for the sale of oleomargarine . 
I have paid into the City Treasury as license fees re .

ceived . 
I have paid into the City Treasury money rived for

distilled water ew $F LTS
Nunber of quarts of sweet milk in the city daily is 
Number of quarts of skimmed milk sold daily is 
Nunber of quarts of cream sold dailyis . O 

Making the total number of quarts of sweet milk ,of skimmed milk , and of eream sold this
past year, which at the retail value of milk and cream as sold
in this city amounts to $.

Number of milk samples tested 
Number of butter samples tested re 
Number of vinegar samples tested 
Number of kerosene oil samples tested T 
Number of prosecutions re 
Number of warnings sent, milk . . ?
Nunber of warnings sent, wooden plugs oe 

 REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.

The prosecutions were for selling milk in store without
first being registered, the fine was $ 

Two thousand and seventy one samples of milk were
tested and only forty two warnings sent for having milk below the standard, and it was nssary to repeat the warnings
in only very few cases. 

By order of the Board of Health the license of one milk
peddler was revoked for having filthy wagon, and was renewed only when he presented wagon that was in good condition.

Several were warned for having swill in their wagons the
warnings did not have to be repeated.

The license of one store was revoked for being dirty,
and was renewed when the place was put in condition satisfactory to the Board of Health.

I have sent warnings to four peddlers for having wooden

 plugs in their milk cans there are practically no wooden
plugs used in this city now for milk cans. In November Dr. Rose of the State Board of Health came

here to inspect the dairies that furnish the milk sold in this

 eity. I went with him several days, but as he has not finished his work I cannot give full report now. We found the
dairies of this city in better condition than in the places
outside.,

VINEGAR.

Of the eighty six samples of vinegar tested, all except
four were of standard quality the four samples that were below the standard were brought in for test by outside parties.

OLEOMARGARINE.

I have issued one peddler’s and one store license for the
sale of oleomargarme. One suspected sample brought in 
proved to be old butter.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
PETROLEUM. 
I have tested only seventy four tank cars of kerosene oil
this vear against eighty eight last year. This falling off due
largely to the use of gas in its place. All this oil was up to the
test required by law.
I have had great assistance from the Health Officer and
the Board of Health, also from my Collector of Samples.
I thank the City Marshal and the patrolmen for the help
that they have given me.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES K. MORRILL,
Inspector of Milk and Vinegar.

Report of Bacteriologist.
To the Board of Health, City. of Holyoke, Mass.
GENTLEMEN I have the honor to submit the following
report for the year ending November 

During the past year there have been referred to me one
hundred and ninety six cases for examination for the presence
of diphtheria bacilli. This number is ninety one less than were
examined during the year of .

It is worthy of attention to note that all but eighteen
cases were referred to the laboratory for diagnosis, .these
eighteen being examined at the time of release only. This

nwuuber probably includes some laryngeal eases, so that practically all of the eases of diphtheria during the year have been
examined at the beginning of the case.

I would like to again refer to the fact that the eases of
larvngeal diphtheria frequently do not show diphtheria bacilli
in the throat, unless membrane is present there, so that negative result of culture from these cases should by no means be
interpreted as indicating that the patient has not laryngeal
diphtheria. I consider this very important point namely,

“that laryngeal diphtheria must be diagnosed by the svinptoms,
unless accompanied by lesions in the throat, when the bacilli
may be found upon eulture.

REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH. 
Below will be found the monthly record of work
CASES AND CULTURES EXAMINED .
Diagnosis Diagnosis Release Release Total Total
Month Pos. Neg. Pos. Neg. Cases Cultures
Dmber, . 
January, . 
 February oe ele 
March es 
April woe ele le 
May tee eB 
June ow le lel 
July re 
 August owe 
September . 
October rs 
November . . 
 
Total eases examined .Oeestiasii‘ dO
Total eultures examined .Ot,tstsé‘“CSté‘ C™éCSB‘CB
Respectfully subimitted,
HERBERT C. EMERSON,
Bacteriologist.


