REPORT OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
To the Honorable, the Mayor and City Council.

The Board of Health respectfully submits the following as its report for the year ending November ,
 .

The membership of the board remains the same
as last year. We organized in February with Dr. G.
H. Smith chairman, Dr. S. A. Mahoney secretary,
Timothy Sullivan as health officer, Joseph Murray
clerk. Mr. Murray was re elected Inspector of Plumb ing.

During the past year the alleys have been kept
in as presentable condition as possible. Under
present conditions it never will be possible to keep
them as clean as they should be kept. The alley in
rear of each residence belongs to the adjoining property owners. Accordingly all alleys are private property. Consequently no improvements can be made
until the owners give the land forming the alley to

 the city.

This board recommends that measures be set on
foot to accomplish that end. Year in and year out
this board has recommended that certain disease
breeding and pestilential spots called alleys be graded

 Report of Board of Flealth.

and paved. Annually that recommendation has been
laid on the table, or referred to some committee from
which it has never returned. A contrast, shameful in
the extreme, is that presented on High street between
Hampden and Lyman streets. The street in front ts
beautifully paved and as well kept as any street can
be, but the rear view It reminds one of the
Irish soldier’s shine. Pat never shined the heel of his
boot though the foot was resplendent. ‘t Because,”
said he, ‘‘a good soldier never looks behind.”

So itis with some of our good citizens. While
the front of the block is well paved and cared for
they never regard the rear there may collect pools of
stagnant water and all sorts of rubbish which no
department in the city can keep in healthy and presentable state until the city becomes the owner of the
alleys and gives them the attention they deserve.
This board hopes that some time in the near future
public sentiment will be enlisted to such an extent
that this matter will be promptly and thoroughly
attended to by paving and grading the alleys between
our chief business streets.

The force under the direction of the board the
same as last year, viz., five double teams and twelve
men. The price paid per team is also the same, viz.,
$ per day. The experience of another year has
strengthened the board in its opinion that it is for the
city’s best interest to have the work done thus than by
the old contract system.

Report of Board of Health. 
The collection of house offal is still performed by
contract, usually given to the lowest bidder. The contractor this year is John J. Donoghue, who has done
this work under previous boards. His bid was $ 
per month. The contract calls for the furnishing of
two teams and two men for the entire year. A bond
of $ Is required of the contracting party. The bid
is certainly too low to expect rigid performance of
the contract's conditions. There have been numerous
complaints, all of which were investigated and rectified
by the board. Considering the lowness of the bid,
however, the work has been done remarkably well.
The night soil is still removed by A. S. Drew, as
in former years. His prices made with property owners cannot exd these figures 
lor Tubs,, $ 
For or Tubs,, 
For or Tubs, 
For or Tubs c. ft., 
For or Tubs,, 
For or Tubs,, 
For or Tubs,. 
For or Tubs Soc. ft., 
For or Tubs,,, 
lor or Tubs,, 
For or Tubs, . 
For or Tubs c. ft., 
For or Tubs, , 


 Report of Board of Health.
For or Tubs,. 
For or Tubs, ., 
For or Tubs ft.,. 
or vide rules and regulations.

It has been this board’s duty to annually call your
attention to the need of general vaccination throughout the city. Yearly it has sent in recommendations
that such be done. The board has gone so far as to
ask for an appropriation for that purpose. All, however, to no avail. The expected, however, happened
this past year. Smallpox appeared in the tenement
blocks of South Holyoke, and nearly three months
elapsed before the scourge was finally stamped out,
and then only by the enforcement of the strictest
quarantine rules, general vaccination of all the inhabitants of the infected district, and the closing of
the schools.

The first case was discovered February ina
family of nine, living in rear of Bridge street. It
was “concealed” case, i. e., the family, although
knowing the nature of the disease, failed to notify the
authorities or the neighbors. It was only by an acctident that it was brought to this board's notice. When
discovered the victim was in the third week of the
disease, and was practically convalescing. The weather ,
being intensely cold at that time, and the house being
so situated that quarantine could be easily established without any danger to the neighborhood, it was

Report of Board of Flealth. 
decided by the board to leave the patient where she
was. The wisdom of this act was demonstrated few

 days later when the children, five in number, were
stricken with the disease in its severest form. The
two younger ones, aged one and one half and three
years, were in convulsions for nearly two days. If a
removal to the pest house had been ordered during
that cold weather, and with the pest house equipped
with an insufficient heating apparatus, the disease
would have resulted much more seriously than it did.
The board was just beginning to congratulate
itself that the danger had passed, when on February
 the disease appeared in the eight tenement block
on the corner of Hamilton and Summer streets. The
source of contagion was traced directly to the first and
concealed case, for this victim had done the washing
for the first case, not knowing she had smallpox. This
problem now confronted the board How were we
going to dispose of this second case? She could not
be left in her present quarters, as she was an element
of danger to the neighborhood. Nor could she be
removed to the pest house, the weather being still too
cold to trust to its heating apparatus. A way out of
the difficulty was found by hiring from the owner of
the house in which the first case appeared room at
the rate of $ per month. At that time this arrangement was very satisfactory to both sides. Again the
board was beginning to think that its efforts were

 Report of Board of Flealth.

about to be crowned with success, when on March 
it was startled by finding another ‘‘ concealed ” case in
a twenty four tenement block on Summer street. In
rapid succession six cases of the disease in the immediate neighborhood were unearthed.

The board now ordered compulsory vaccination
of all the inhabitants of South Holyoke, and employed
nineteen physicians to see that its orders were carried
out. This work was rapidly and efficiently performed
under direction of this board.

The weather now having moderated, the pest
house was opened for the rption of patients.

During the epidemic the entire number of persons attacked was twenty nine of these three died,
one of smallpox, one of meningitis while convalescent,
one of pneumonia.

The cost of the epidemic to the city is as follows
Quarantine officers, SQ 
Support of quarantined families, . 
Furnishing of pest house, 
Provisions to pest house, 
Virus, sulphur, etc.,, 
Reimbursement property destroyed, 
Nursing at pest house, ., 
Vaccination in schools and South Holyoke, 
Incidentals, 

$. 

Report of Board of Flealth. 

In speaking of smallpox, unconsciously the board
started in to recommend that the heating apparatus at
the pest house be attended to, so accustomed is the
board to having its recommendations annually repeated
only to be annually disregarded, but we are glad to
record that the lesson taught by this year’s experience
with smallpox quickened your honorable body to
repair and fit up the pest house so that today it is a
safe place to send case in any kind of weather.

Now we come to another of our perennial recommendations, and this is one of the old veterans, hoaryheaded and hardened by the experiences of many a
year's defeat, and this is convenient dumping ground
for the now noxious refuse from the city’s alleys.
Those we have at present are located on private lands.

 In consequence of the long draws required to reach
these places the cost of thus disposing of the city
refuse is much more than it ought to be. The locacations of our present dumping places are First, 
behind the old slaughter house on the river bank 
secondly, down below the old ferry thirdly, on
Northampton street.

During the present year the desirability of obtaining some portion of the Dingle for dumping purposes was called to your attention, but the recommendation to that effect was referred to some committee
or department from which, as usual, it never returned.
Of course the most sanitary method of disposing of



 Report of Board of flealth.

such refuse is by means of crematory. The cost,
however, would be much greater than at present. It
is essential to the economical running of this department that some location situated within short
distance of the heart of the city be obtained and
placed under control of this board to be used asa
dumping ground. The board sees no more desirable location than that part of the Dingle south
of Maple street. Accordingly, it renews its recommendation to your honorable body that some part ot
that be obtained and used for that purpose.

During the present year the new plumbing ordinance, which was passed by your honorable body the
last part of last year, has been in force. It is with
pleasure that this board already notices general
improvement in that most important branch of domestic hygiene. Much of the credit of this improvement
is due to the zeal of our efficient Inspector of Plumb' ing, Mr. Joseph Murray.

During the year the board has issued revised
edition of itsrules and regulations and have distributed
them generally to the taxpayers and property owners.

The board has been obliged to serve only one
sheriff's notice before it could obtain compliance with
its requests.

The board caused the arrest and prosecution of
Elias Frechette for concealing case of smallpox. A
fine of $ was imposed by the judge.

Report of Board of Health 

The board has been sued by Joseph S. Gauthier
for supposed damage to his property, arising fram the
smallpox quarantine. The damages are placed at
$.

The city has been remarkably free from infectious
and contagious diseases during the entire year. During the past month considerable typhoid fever appeared
scattered throughout the city.

The following diseases were reported to the board
during the year

Diphtheria, Scarlet Fever. Measles. ‘Typhoid Fever. Smallpox
Dmber, ' O O O
January, ’ I I O O
February, I O O O 
March, O 
April, O 
May, O I I
June, I I O
July, O I O
August, O I O O
September, O O O O
October, O I O O
November, O

Total, 

The annual death rate excluding stillbirths, which
is per inhabitants, is exdingly low.
Following are the deaths per month 

 Report of Board of Flealth.
Btrillbirths. Total.

Dmber, ’ 
January, ‘ 
February, 
March, 
April, 
May, 
June, 
July, 
August, 
September, 
October, § “ 
November, 

Total. 

In this table your attention called to the large '
number of deaths occurring during July. Forty four
of the ninety three deaths in that month were among
children under two years of age, and not from
diarrhceal troubles, undoubtedly caused by poor milk.
Your attention was called to this same fact in our last
year's report. During the year the board sent in a
recommendation that an inspector of milk be employed
who will devote his entire time and attention during
the months of June, July and August to the milk sup 
ply of this city. It certainly appears in the face of
such statistics that some attempt should be made to
reduce that awful mortality among the children who

Report of Board of Flealth. 
depend for their sustenance upon milk. At present,
practically, no supervision of the milk supply exists. The
inspector candidly acknowledges that at the present
salary, $nothing can be done. Accordingly this
board renews its recommendation of last year that a
competent inspector be employed at reasonable salary, who can devote his entire time and attention to
the milk supply.

The board desires again to call your attention to
the sewage system of South Holyoke. It hopes that
some measures for improving the sewerage in that part
of the city be set on foot before it is again visited with
an epidemic of diphtheria, as it was two years ago.

The board desires to return thanks to your honor able body for the many courtesies extended to it during the year.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

Balance on hand Dmber $ 

Appropriation, . 

Transfers,.,. 
$. 

EXPENDITURES.

Labor and team hire on alleys,. $. 

Gathering house offal, 

Health Officer,, 

Plumbing Inspector, 

 Report of Board of Health
Smallpox, oo,. 
Smallpox bills of last year,, 
Incidental expenses, 
Total, . $. 
Balance on hand, .$ 
By the above statement it will be seen that the
city expended $ . in consequence of its experience with smallpox last year and the year before. A
part of this sum, nearly one fourth, is returnable to
the city from the state. 
This board recommends that $ be appro '
priated in order to carry on the work of this department for the coming year.
G. H. SMITH, M. D., 
TIMOTHY SULLIVAN, 
S. A. MAHONEY,
Board of Frealth.

 ,


